ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in, or incorporated by reference into, this Report, you should carefully consider the risks described below that could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. These risks are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. We are actively evaluating strategic investment and acquisition opportunities, which may affect our long-term growth prospects. We are actively evaluating strategic acquisitions and investment opportunities, both domestic and international, that that range in size and meet our return-on-investment and other acquisition criteria. Any future transactions we pursue may focus on: (i) opportunities that we believe have potential for long-term organic and strategic growth, including in underserved markets, (ii) telecommunications infrastructure investments and (iii) areas that may not be seen by the broader market as timely today. There can be no assurance as to whether, when or on what terms we will be able to acquire any such businesses or licenses or make such investments. Any such acquisitions may be accomplished through the payment of cash, issuance of shares of our capital stock or incurrence of additional debt. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $434.6 million in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash primarily as a result of the proceeds from our Alltel Sale, and no long-term debt. How and when we deploy our balance sheet capacity will figure prominently in our longer-term growth prospects and stockholder returns. Following the Alltel Sale, our reliance on revenues derived from services in our International Integrated Telephony and Island Wireless segments has substantially increased. Revenues derived from our Alltel business generated approximately 50% of our wholesale revenues and approximately 63% of our total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012 and 38% of our wholesale revenues and approximately 58% of our total consolidated revenues for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2013. Following the Alltel Sale, our U.S. wireless wholesale revenues have substantially decreased, and approximately 37% of our total consolidated revenues are derived from our U.S. wholesale wireless business, 32% from our International Integrated Telephony segment in Guyana and 31% from all other segments as of December 31, 2013. As a result, our exposure to political and regulatory uncertainty in Guyana and the Caribbean will have a greater impact on our revenues as a whole. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to find growth or expansion opportunities in the United States or other jurisdictions that provide more regulatory or political certainty to our investors. 18 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Wireless Businesses A significant portion of our U.S. wholesale wireless revenue is derived from a small number of customers. A substantial majority of our U.S. wholesale wireless revenues, which accounted for approximately 36% of our consolidated revenue and approximately 86% of our operating income in 2013, are generated from four national wireless service providers. Our relationships with our roaming customers generally are much more financially significant for us than for our customers. Typically, our relationships with our roaming customers do not require them to "prefer" our networks or require them to send us a minimum amount of traffic. Instead, roaming customers may choose to utilize other networks, if available, for their subscribers' roaming use. If our markets currently included in our roaming partners' home calling areas are instead subject to the imposition of additional roaming charges or if we fail to keep any of our roaming customers satisfied with our service offerings or economic terms, we could lose their business, experience less roaming traffic or be unable to renew or enter into new agreements with these customers on beneficial terms (including pricing), resulting in a substantial loss of revenue, which would have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if these customers build or acquire wireless networks in our service areas we may lose revenue. Should any of these customers take such actions over a significant portion of the areas we serve, it may have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may have difficulty meeting the growing demand for data services. Demand for smartphones and data services continues to grow across all of our wireless markets and our value to our customers in some markets depends in part on our network's ability to provide high-quality and high capacity network service to smartphone devices. Indeed, much of the revenue growth in our U.S. Wireless segment in 2013 has been attributable to increased demand for data services. However, if data usage increases faster than we anticipate and exceeds the then-available capacity of any of our networks, our costs to deliver roaming services may be higher than we anticipate or the quality of our service may be negatively affected. In addition, the dearth of available spectrum in our industry means that we cannot guarantee that we will be able to acquire additional spectrum at a reasonable cost or at all to ensure our ability to maintain or grow our business and traffic volumes. As demand for advanced mobile data services continues to grow, we may have difficulty satisfying our wholesale roaming partners' demand for these services without substantial upgrades and additional capital expenditures, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on a limited number of key suppliers and vendors for timely supply of handsets, accessories, equipment and services relating to our network infrastructure. If these suppliers or vendors experience problems or favor our competitors, we could fail to obtain sufficient quantities of the products and services we require to operate our businesses successfully. We depend on a limited number of suppliers and vendors for equipment and services relating to our handset lineup, network infrastructure and our back-office IT systems infrastructure. If these suppliers experience interruptions or other problems delivering these network components on a timely basis, our subscriber or revenue growth and operating results could suffer significantly. We source wireless devices for our retail wireless businesses from a small number of handset resellers and to a lesser extent, equipment manufacturers and depend on access to compelling devices at reasonable prices on primary and secondary markets for these devices, as well as timely delivery of devices to meet market demands. The inability to provide a competitive device lineup could materially impact our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers. We are also reliant upon a limited number of network equipment manufacturers, including Ericsson, Motorola, Alcatel-Lucent and 19 Table of Contents Nokia in the United States. If it becomes necessary to seek alternative suppliers and vendors, we may be unable to obtain satisfactory replacement suppliers or vendors on economically attractive terms on a timely basis. Risks Relating to Our Wireline Services in Guyana Our exclusive license to provide local exchange and international voice and data services in Guyana is subject to significant political and regulatory risk. Since 1991, our subsidiary Guyana Telephone and Telegraph, Ltd. ("GT&T") has operated in Guyana pursuant to a license from the Government of Guyana to be the exclusive provider of domestic fixed and international voice and data services pursuant to a license with an initial term ending in December 2010, which was renewable at our sole option for an additional 20 year term. In November 2009, we notified the Government of Guyana of our election to renew our exclusive license for an additional 20 years. On December 15, 2010, we received correspondence from the Government of Guyana indicating that our license had been renewed until such time that new legislation is in place with regard to the Government's intention to expand competition within the sector; however, we believe our exclusive license continues to be valid unless and until such time as we enter into a negotiated settlement with the Government. Since 2001, the Government of Guyana has stated its intention to introduce additional competition into Guyana's telecommunications sector. Since that time, we have met on several occasions with officials of the Government of Guyana to discuss potential modifications of our exclusivity and other rights under the existing agreement. In 2012, the Government of Guyana introduced a bill into Parliament containing draft legislation, regulations, and licenses that, if enacted, would have the effect of terminating our exclusive license by permitting other telecommunications carriers to receive licenses to provide domestic fixed services and international voice and data services in Guyana. The proposed legislation would also introduce material changes to many other features of Guyana's existing telecommunications regulatory regime. We cannot predict when or if the proposed legislation will be adopted by Parliament or, if adopted and then signed into law by the President, the manner in which it would be implemented by the Minister of Telecommunications and the PUC. Although we believe that we would be entitled to damages or other compensation for any involuntary termination of our contractual exclusivity rights, we cannot guarantee that we would prevail in a proceeding to enforce our rights or that such actions would effectively halt any unilateral action by the Government. In addition, since 2009, we have been engaged in lawsuits in Guyana challenging the legality of GT&T's exclusive license rights under Guyana's constitution. As recently as 2012, a trial court made findings calling into question the validity of our exclusive license, prompting Digicel, our main competitor in Guyana, to begin connecting its own international traffic out of Guyana without receiving an international license and at rates which had not been approved by the Guyana PUC. In response, the Guyana PUC ordered Digicel to cease providing service at such rates, and the government of Guyana notified us that they have undertaken to advise Digicel that its activities are in contravention of Guyana law. The Guyana courts also granted GT&T an interim injunction restraining Digicel from bypassing GT&T's network. GT&T has also appealed the case, not only with respect to the contract claim, but also as to the court's findings regarding the exclusivity of GT&T's license and its application to VoIP services. We are dependent on GT&T for approximately 32% of our total consolidated revenues. A loss of exclusivity on international voice and data service would result in a reduction in the international call traffic and as a result, a loss in that portion of our wireline revenue. Any modification, early termination or other revocation of the exclusive domestic fixed and international voice and data license could adversely affect our revenues and profits and diminish the value of our investment in Guyana. 20 Table of Contents Other Risks Relating to Our Businesses and Industry Our wireless and wireline revenues depend on the reliability and performance of our network infrastructure. We must operate our wireless and wireline networks so as to minimize any disruption that may occur to our services. The continued operation and growth of our networks and the implementation of new technologies and services involve operating risks that may disrupt our services or cause losses in revenue. Other risks that may also cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers include power loss, capacity limitations, software defects and breaches of security by computer viruses, break-ins or otherwise. Disruptions in our networks and the unavailability of our services or our inability to efficiently and effectively complete necessary technology upgrades could lead to a loss of customers, damage to our reputation and violation of the terms of our licenses and contracts with customers. These failures could also lead to significant negative publicity, regulatory problems and litigation. The loss of certain licenses could adversely affect our ability to provide wireless and broadband services. In the United States, wireless, PCS and microwave licenses are valid for ten years from the effective date of the license. Licensees may renew their licenses for additional ten-year periods by filing renewal applications with the FCC. Our wireless licenses in the U.S. expire between 2015 and 2019. The renewal applications are subject to FCC review and are put out for public comment to ensure that the licensees meet their licensing requirements and comply with other applicable FCC mandates. Failure to file for renewal of these licenses or failure to meet any licensing requirements could lead to a denial of the renewal application and thus adversely affect our ability to continue to provide service in that license area. Furthermore, our compliance with regulatory requirements such as enhanced 911 and CALEA requirements may depend on the availability of necessary equipment or software. In our international markets, telecommunications licenses are typically issued and regulated by the applicable telecommunications ministry. The application and renewal process for these licenses may be lengthy, require us to expend substantial renewal fees, and/or be subject to regulatory uncertainty, such as we are experiencing in Guyana, as described above. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements may have an adverse effect on our licenses or operations and could result in sanctions, fines or other penalties. Regulatory changes may impose restrictions that adversely affect us or cause us to incur significant unplanned costs in modifying our business plans or operations. We are subject to U.S. federal, state and local regulations and foreign government regulations, all of which are subject to change. As new telecommunications laws and regulations are issued, we may be required to modify our business plans or operations. We cannot be certain that we can do so in a cost-effective manner. In addition, the failure to comply with applicable governmental regulations could result in the loss of our licenses or authorizations to operate, the assessment of penalties or fines or otherwise may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. Our operations in the United States are subject to the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (or "1996 Act"). The interpretation and implementation of the provisions of the 1996 Act and the FCC rules implementing the 1996 Act continue to be heavily debated and may have a material adverse effect on our business. Also, although legislation has not yet been introduced, there have been indications that Congress may substantially revise the 1996 Act and other regulation in the next few years. While we believe we are in compliance with federal and state regulatory requirements, our interpretation of our obligations may differ from those of regulatory authorities. Both federal and state regulators require us to pay various fees and assessments, file periodic reports and comply with various rules regarding our consumer marketing practices and the contents of our bills, on an on-going basis. If we 21 Table of Contents fail to comply with these requirements, we may be subject to fines or potentially be asked to show cause as to why our licenses to provide service should not be revoked. Increased competition may adversely affect growth, require increased capital expenditures, result in the loss of existing customers and decrease our revenues. We face competition in the markets in which we operate. For example: •In the United States, our greatest competitive risk is the possibility that our current roaming customers may elect to build or enhance their own networks within the rural market in which we currently provide service, which is commonly known as "over-building." If our roaming customers, who generally have greater financial resources and access to capital than we do, determine to over-build our network, their need for our roaming services will be significantly reduced or eliminated. •In Guyana, we have faced competition from Digicel, a wireless service provider operating across the region that has been very aggressive in acquiring a substantial share of the market. •In Bermuda and the Caribbean, we compete against Digicel and in Turks and Caicos, we compete with the incumbent wireless service provider as well. •In New England and New York State, in addition to other competitive voice and data communications service providers, we compete with much larger regional carriers, each of which has greater financial and other resources. Over the last several years, an increase in competition has contributed to a decline in prices for communication services, including local and long-distance telephone service, data services and mobile wireless services. Increased competition may decrease prices further. In addition, increased competition could reduce our customer base, require us to invest in new facilities and capabilities and reduce revenues, margins and returns. Our foreign operations are subject to economic, political and other risks that could adversely affect our revenues or financial position. Our operations in Bermuda and the Caribbean may face adverse financial consequences and operational problems due to foreign political or economic changes, such as changes in national or regional political or economic conditions, laws and regulations that restrict repatriation of earnings or other funds, or changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Any of these changes could adversely affect our revenues or financial position. Our ability to recruit and retain experienced management and technical personnel could adversely affect our results of operations and ability to maintain internal controls. The success of our business is largely dependent on our executive officers and the officers of our operating units, as well as on our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified technical and management personnel. We believe that there is, and will continue to be, strong competition for qualified personnel in the communications industry and in our markets, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development of our business. We rely heavily on local management to run our operating units. Many of the markets we operate in are small and remote, making it difficult to attract and retain talented and qualified managers and staff in those markets. The loss of key personnel or the failure to attract or retain personnel with the sophistication to run complicated telecommunications equipment, networks and systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not currently maintain "key person" life insurance on any of our key employees and none of the executives at our parent company are under employment agreements. 22 Table of Contents In addition, cultural differences abroad and local practices of conducting business in our foreign operations may not be in line with the business practices, recordkeeping and ethics standards in the United States. In order to continue to ensure compliance with foreign and U.S. laws, accounting standards and our own corporate policies, we have implemented financial and operational controls, created an internal audit team responsible for monitoring and ensuring compliance with our internal accounting controls, and routinely train our employees, vendors and consultants. However, having substantial foreign operations also increases the complexity and difficulty of developing, implementing and monitoring these internal controls and procedures. For example, in 2012, we identified violations of certain of the Company's policies and procedures at our GT&T subsidiary, which we remedied by, among other things, replacing certain GT&T senior personnel and in 2013, we identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting resulting from the implementation of a new billing system in Guyana and the accounting personnel in our GT&T subsidiary possessing insufficient accounting knowledge, experience and training. If we are unable to manage these risks effectively, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Our ability to remediate these material weaknesses, or our discovery of additional weaknesses, could adversely affect our results of operations. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that companies evaluate and report on their systems of internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must report on its evaluation of those controls. As disclosed in "Controls and Procedures" in Part II, Item 9A of this Report, we have identified material weaknesses as of December 31, 2013 in our internal control over financial reporting resulting from ineffective controls in a new customer billing system in Guyana and insufficient training and complement of resources at our GT&T subsidiary. Failure to have effective internal control over financial reporting could impair our ability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis and could lead to a restatement of our financial statements. If, as a result of deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, we cannot provide reliable financial statements, our business decision processes may be adversely affected, our business and results of operations could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and our ability to obtain additional financing, or additional financing on favorable terms, could be adversely affected. In addition, failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigations or sanctions by regulatory authorities. Our management has taken action to begin remediating these material weaknesses, however, certain other remedial actions have not been completed or have only recently been undertaken, and while we expect to continue to implement our remediation plan through 2014, we cannot be certain as to when remediation will be fully completed. In addition, we may in the future identify additional internal control deficiencies that could rise to the level of a material weakness or uncover errors in financial reporting. During the course of our evaluation, we may identify areas requiring improvement and may be required to design additional enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through this review. In addition, there can be no assurance that such remediation efforts will be successful, that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective as a result of these efforts or that any such future deficiencies identified may not be material weaknesses that would be required to be reported in future periods. If we fail to remediate these material weaknesses and maintain an effective system of disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to rely on the integrity of our financial results, which could result in inaccurate or late reporting of our financial results. 23 Table of Contents An economic downturn experienced by our subscriber base could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flow. The global economy could experience an economic downturn due to a crisis in credit markets, slower economic activity, increased unemployment, concerns about inflation, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence and other adverse business conditions. For example, among other things: •A decrease in tourism could negatively affect revenues and growth opportunities from operations in the islands and in a number of areas covered by U.S. rural and wholesale wireless operations that serve tourist destinations. •An increase in "bad debt", or the amounts that we have to write off of our accounts receivable could result from our inability to collect subscription fees from our subscribers. •We rely on the population of Guyanese living abroad who initiate calls to Guyana or are responsible for remittances to relatives living in Guyana. A prolonged economic downturn in the U.S. or Canadian economies could affect inbound calling and, therefore, our revenue in Guyana. The impact, if any, that these events might have on us and our business is uncertain. The occurrence of severe weather and natural catastrophes may materially disrupt our operations. Many of the areas in which we operate have experienced severe weather conditions over the years including hurricanes, tornadoes, blizzards, damaging storms and floods. Some areas in which we operate may also be at risk of earthquakes. Such events may materially disrupt and adversely affect our business operations. A major hurricane passed directly over Bermuda in 2003 causing major damage to our network and to the island's infrastructure. In 2008, a hurricane caused extensive damage on a small portion of the U.S. Virgin Islands and a separate hurricane negatively affected operations in the Turks and Caicos. Guyana has suffered from severe rains and flooding in the past as well. While these events have not had a significant negative impact on the operating results or financial condition of the affected businesses or our overall business, we cannot be sure that these types of events will not have such an impact in the future or that the insurance coverage we maintain for these risks will adequately compensate us for all damage and economic losses resulting from natural catastrophes. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure Our debt instruments include restrictive and financial covenants that limit our operating flexibility. Our credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and contains covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to take specific actions, even if we believe such actions are in our best interest. These include restrictions on our ability to do the following: •incur additional debt; •create liens or negative pledges with respect to our assets; •pay dividends or distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, our capital stock; •make investments, loans or advances or other forms of payments; •issue, sell or allow distributions on capital stock of specified subsidiaries; •enter into transactions with affiliates; or •merge, consolidate or sell our assets. Any failure to comply with the restrictions of the credit facility or any subsequent financing agreements may result in an event of default. Such default may allow our creditors to accelerate the 24 Table of Contents repayment of the related debt and may result in the acceleration of the repayment of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, these creditors may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to provide us with further funds. Our Chairman is our largest stockholder and will continue to exert significant influence over us. Cornelius B. Prior, Jr., our Chairman and the father of our Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns, together with related entities, affiliates and family members (including our Chief Executive Officer), approximately 40% of our outstanding Common Stock. As a result, he is able to exert significant influence over all matters presented to our stockholders for approval, including election and removal of our directors and change of control transactions. In addition, as our Chairman, he has the ability to exert significant influence over other matters brought before our Board of Directors, such as proposed changes in our strategy or business plans and our major financing decisions. His interests may not always coincide with the interests of other holders of our Common Stock. Low trading volume of our stock may limit our shareholders ability to sell shares and/or result in lower sale prices. For the three months prior to March 1, 2014, the average daily trading volume of our Common Stock was approximately 50,000 shares. As a result, shareholders may have difficulty selling a large number of shares of our Common Stock in the manner or at a price that might be attainable if our Common Stock were more actively traded. In addition, the market price of our Common Stock may not be reflective of its underlying value. We may not pay dividends in the future. Our stockholders may receive dividends out of legally available funds if, and when, they are declared by our Board of Directors. We have consistently paid quarterly dividends in the past, but may cease to do so at any time. Our credit facility sets certain limitations on our ability to pay dividends on, or repurchase, our capital stock. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future that may further restrict our ability to declare and pay dividends. We may also be restricted from paying dividends in the future due to restrictions imposed by applicable state laws, our financial condition and results of operations, capital requirements, covenants contained in our financing agreements, management's assessment of future capital needs and other factors considered by our Board of Directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 