Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Partnership’s business. The business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Please note that additional risks not presently known to the Partnership or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair business and operations. A substantial portion of our operating expense is related to the cost of natural gas, and an increase in such cost that is either unexpected or not accompanied by increases in selling prices of products could result in reduced profit margins and lower product production. The principal raw material used to produce nitrogen products is natural gas. Natural gas costs in 2008 comprised about 73% of our total costs and expenses. A significant increase in the price of natural gas (which can be driven by, among other things, supply disruptions, cold weather and oil price spikes) that is not hedged or recovered through an increase in the price of the related nitrogen products could result in reduced profit margins and lower production. We have reduced production rates for periods of time in response to high natural gas prices and may do so again in the future. Globally, a significant number of competitors’ nitrogen production facilities have access to fixed-priced natural gas supplies. Our offshore competitors’ natural gas costs have been and likely will continue to be substantially lower than ours. Governmental or regulatory actions may also adversely affect both the supply availability and/or price of natural gas which could have a material adverse affect on the Partnership’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Declines in the prices of our products may reduce profit margins. Prices for nitrogen products are influenced by the global supply and demand for ammonia and other nitrogen-based products. Long-term demand is affected by population growth and rising living standards that determine food consumption. Short-term demand is affected by world economic conditions and international trade decisions. Supply is affected by increasing worldwide capacity and the increasing availability of nitrogen product exports from major producing regions such as the former Soviet Union, Canada, the Middle East, Trinidad and Venezuela. When the industry is oversupplied, as is common in commodity businesses, the price at which we sell our nitrogen products typically declines, which results in reduced profit margins, lower production rates and plant closures. U.S. supply is also affected by trade regulatory measures, which restrict imports into that market. Changes in those measures would likely adversely impact available supply and pricing. Our products are subject to price volatility resulting from periodic imbalances of supply and demand, which may cause the results of operations to fluctuate. Historically, our product prices have reflected frequent changes in supply and demand conditions. Changes in supply result from capacity additions or reductions and from changes in inventory levels. Product demand depends on demand for crop nutrients by the global agricultural industry and on the level of industrial production. Periods of high demand, high capacity utilization and increasing operating margins tend to result in new plant investment and increased production until supply exceeds demand, followed by periods of declining prices and declining capacity utilization until the cycle is repeated. In addition, markets for our products are affected by general economic conditions. As a result of periodic imbalances of supply and demand, product prices have been volatile, with frequent and significant price changes. During periods of oversupply, the price at which we sell our products may be 9 Table of Contents depressed and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products are global commodities and we face intense competition from other producers. Nitrogen fertilizer products are global commodities and can be subject to intense price competition from both domestic and foreign sources. Fertilizers are global commodities, and customers, including end-users, dealers, other crop-nutrients producers and distributors, base their purchasing decisions principally on the delivered price and availability of the product. We compete with a number of U.S. and offshore producers, including state-owned and government-subsidized entities. The U.S. has trade regulatory measures in effect which are designed to address this type of unfair trade. Changes in these measures could have an adverse impact on our sales and profitability of the particular products involved. Some of our principal competitors have greater total resources and are less dependent on earnings from nitrogen fertilizer sales. In addition, a portion of global production benefits from fixed-price natural gas contracts that have been, and could continue to be, substantially lower priced than our natural gas. Our inability to compete successfully could result in the loss of customers, which could adversely affect sales and profitability. Our business is subject to risks related to weather conditions. Adverse weather may have a significant effect on demand for our nitrogen products. Weather conditions that delay or intermittently disrupt field work during the planting and growing season may cause agricultural customers to use less or different forms of nitrogen fertilizer, which may adversely affect demand for the forms of nitrogen fertilizer that we sell. Weather conditions following harvest may delay or eliminate opportunities to apply fertilizer in the fall. Weather can also have an adverse effect on crop yields, which lowers the income of growers and could impair their ability to pay our customers. Weather and/or weather forecasts can dramatically affect the price of natural gas, our main raw material. Colder than normal winters as well as warmer than normal summers increase the natural gas demand for residential use. Also, hurricanes affecting the gulf coastal states can severely impact the supply of natural gas and cause prices to rise sharply. Our risk measurement and hedging activities might not prevent losses. We manage commodity price risk for our businesses as a whole. Although we implemented risk measurement systems that use various methodologies to quantify the risk, these systems might not always be followed or might not always work as planned. Further, such risk measurement systems do not in themselves manage risk, and adverse changes involving volatility, adverse correlation of commodity prices and the liquidity of markets might still adversely affect earnings and cash flows, as well as the balance sheet under applicable accounting rules, even if risks have been identified. The ability to manage exposure to commodity price risk in the purchase of natural gas through the use of financial derivatives may be affected by limitations imposed by our bank agreement covenants. In an effort to manage financial exposure related to commodity price and market fluctuations, we have entered into contracts to hedge certain risks associated with our business, its assets and operations. In these hedging activities, we have used fixed-price, forward, physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps and option contracts traded in the over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. Nevertheless, no single hedging arrangement can adequately address all risks present in a given contract or industry. Therefore, unhedged risks will always continue to exist. We may not be able to successfully manage all credit risk and as such, future cash flows could be impacted by counterparty default. 10 Table of Contents We are substantially dependent on our Verdigris, Oklahoma manufacturing facility, and any operational disruption could result in a reduction of sales volumes and could cause us to incur substantial expenditures. Our manufacturing operations may be subject to significant interruption if our Verdigris, Oklahoma manufacturing facility were to experience a major accident or were damaged by severe weather or other natural disaster. In addition, our operations are subject to hazards inherent in nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing. Some of those hazards may cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. We currently maintain property insurance, including business interruption insurance although there can be no assurance that we have sufficient coverage, or can in the future obtain and maintain sufficient coverage at reasonable costs. We may be adversely affected by environmental laws or regulations to which we may be subject. Our operations are subject to various federal, state and local environmental, safety and health laws and regulations, including laws relating to air quality, hazardous and solid wastes and water quality. Our operations are subject to comprehensive federal and state regulatory guidelines, including the federal Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act, Toxic Substances Control Act and their state analogs. We could incur substantial costs, including capital expenditures for equipment upgrades, operational changes, fines and penalties and third-party claims for damages, as a result of noncompliance with, violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. We are also involved in the manufacturing, handling, transportation, storage and disposal of materials that are or may be classified as hazardous or toxic by federal, state, provincial or other regulatory agencies. We may be responsible under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, or CERCLA, or analogous laws for all or part of the costs of investigation and/or remediation if such materials have been or are disposed of or released at sites that require investigation and/or remediation, and for damages to natural resources. Under some of these laws, responsible parties may be held jointly and severally liable for such costs, regardless of fault or the legality of the original disposal or release. We may be required to install additional pollution control equipment to comply with applicable environmental requirements. Continued government and public emphasis on environmental issues can be expected to result in increased future investments for environmental controls at ongoing operations. We may be required to install additional air and water quality control equipment, such as low emission burners, scrubbers, ammonia sensors and continuous emission monitors to comply with applicable environmental requirements. Such investments would reduce net income from future operations. Present and future environmental laws and regulations applicable to our operations, more vigorous enforcement policies and discovery of unknown conditions may require substantial expenditures and may have a material adverse effect on results of operations, financial position or net cash flows. Government regulation and agricultural policy may reduce the demand for our products. Existing and future government regulations and laws may reduce the demand for nitrogen products. Existing and future agricultural and/or environmental laws and regulations may impact the amounts and locations of fertilizer application and may lead to decreases in the quantity of nitrogen fertilizer applied to crops. Any such decrease in the demand for nitrogen fertilizer products could result in lower unit sales and lower selling prices for our fertilizer products. U.S. governmental policies affecting the number of acres planted, the level of grain inventories, the mix of crops planted and crop prices could 11 Table of Contents also affect the demand for and selling prices of products. Environmental and safety regulations on the transportation of our products could also increase the cost of transportation, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial position or net cash flows. Terra and its affiliates may engage in competition with us. The partnership agreement does not prohibit Terra and its affiliates, other than our General Partner TNGP, from owning and operating nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing plants and storage and distribution assets or engaging in businesses that otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, which could harm our business. In addition, Terra may acquire, construct or dispose of additional assets related to our business, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct any of these assets. We are dependent on Terra and its employees for the success of our business. We are dependent on Terra for our success in a number of respects. Terra, through its wholly-owned subsidiary TNGP, (our General Partner), manages our business operations and, together with its affiliates, provides certain other services to us, including production, manufacturing, sales, customer service, distribution, accounting, legal, risk management, investor relations and other general and administrative services. Terra and its wholly-owned subsidiaries have more debt and debt service requirements than we do. Although Terra is affected by most of the factors that affect us, its higher level of debt could put a greater risk on Terra in the event business conditions deteriorate materially. Our results of operations and financial condition might be adversely affected by financial difficulties at Terra, default by it or its subsidiaries on their debt or their bankruptcy. Information regarding Terra can be obtained in the various filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K. We may be unable to refinance our indebtedness upon a change of control. Under our revolving credit facility, a change of control will occur if, among other such things, an individual or group acquires more than 35% of the outstanding voting shares of Terra. Such a change of control would constitute an event of default under the credit facility. If such a change of control was to occur, the Partnership may not have the ability to replace its current revolving credit facility on terms equal to or more favorable than current terms. CF’s exchange offer to purchase all of Terra’s outstanding common stock may be disruptive to our business and threatens to adversely affect the Partnership’s operations and results. On February 23, 2009, CF Industries Holdings, Inc. (CF) commenced an exchange offer to purchase all of Terra’s outstanding common stock (the CF Offer). The CF Offer expires on May 15, 2009. The uncertainty regarding the outcome of the CF Offer may disrupt the Partnership’s business which could result in an adverse effect on our operating results. We are dependent on Terra and its employees in a number of respects. Responding to the CF Offer has been, and may continue to be, a distraction for Terra’s management and employees. Terra management and employee distraction related to the CF Offer also may adversely impact our ability to optimally conduct the Partnership business and pursue our strategic objectives. 12 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 