ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in, or incorporated by reference into, this Report, you should carefully consider the risks described below that could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. These risks are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Risks relating to our U.S. operations We may not be successful in increasing our customer base which would negatively affect our business plans and financial outlook. Over the past year, we have worked to separate our acquired Alltel network from the legacy Verizon Wireless/Alltel network. This required us to transition or "re-home" some of the acquired field network facilities to newly built, or other newly acquired, switching and other core network facilities and integrate and align numerous business and work processes such as customer billing, by building and designing our own processes and the information systems necessary to track and handle those processes. This integration process, though successful, posed many challenges and likely contributed to some net subscriber loss, from 800,000 subscribers at the acquisition to 582,000 subscribers as of December 31, 2011. Our current business plans assume that we will modestly increase our customer base over time. Our rates of customer acquisition and turnover are affected by a number of factors described in detail below, including the size of our service areas, network performance and reliability issues, our device and service offerings, customer perceptions of our services, customer care quality and wireless number portability. Managing these factors and customers' expectations is essential in attracting and retaining customers. Although we have implemented programs to attract new customers and address customer turnover, we cannot be certain that these programs will be successful. A high rate of customer turnover or low rate of new customer acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Intense competition in the U.S. retail wireless industry and our smaller scale, relative to larger national or regional wireless carriers, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Competition in the U.S. retail wireless industry is currently intense and could intensify further due to the general effects of a weak economy, as well as due to wireless industry factors such as increased market saturation and aggressive price reductions. Our main competitors are national or global telecommunications companies that are much larger than us. These carriers possess greater resources and much greater economies of scale that gives them a significant cost advantage in many areas. The national carriers can deploy new network technologies and mobile handsets and devices more rapidly and at a lower cost. The national and larger regional carriers typically also have broader radio spectrum holdings, giving them the ability to launch multiple technologies and to devote more bandwidth to a given voice or data service. Due to our smaller scale, we may be unable to compete successfully with larger companies that have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, sales, purchasing and distribution resources, which could adversely affect our revenues and costs of doing business. In particular, our business depends on our access to new handsets and other devices and to a lesser extent, content for data, music or video services, being developed by vendors. Because of their buying power and the relationships they have created with vendors, the large national carriers have a significant advantage in pushing the development of new technologies and taking advantage of those technologies. For example, in the past, they have entered into deals with device vendors giving them the exclusive right to sell the latest mobile devices for a period of time. If we are unable to obtain new handsets desired by our customers at favorable pricing and quantities as a result of our smaller purchasing resources or obtain timely access to content for data, music or video services, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents We rely on a limited number of key suppliers and vendors for timely supply of handsets, accessories, equipment and services relating to our network infrastructure. If these suppliers or vendors experience problems or favor our competitors, we could fail to obtain sufficient quantities of the products and services we require to operate our businesses successfully. We depend on a limited number of suppliers and vendors for equipment and services relating to our handset lineup, network infrastructure and our back-office IT systems infrastructure. If these suppliers experience interruptions or other problems delivering these network components on a timely basis, our subscriber or revenue growth and operating results could suffer significantly. We source wireless devices from a small number of equipment manufacturers and depend on access to compelling devices at reasonable prices as well as timely delivery of devices to meet market demands. The inability to provide a competitive device lineup, as discussed with respect to increased competition risks above, could materially impact our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers. We are also reliant upon a limited number of network equipment manufacturers, including Ericsson, Motorola, Alcatel-Lucent and Nokia in the United States. If it becomes necessary to seek alternative suppliers and vendors, we may be unable to obtain satisfactory replacement suppliers or vendors on economically attractive terms on a timely basis. Due to the non-contiguous nature of our U.S. wireless network, if we are unable to expand our network and obtain the roaming services we need from other carriers to operate competitively, our profitability and other results of operations could be adversely affected. The wireless assets that we acquired in the Alltel Acquisition were historically operated as part of a national network whose customers valued nationwide coverage and support. As a result of the regulatory-required divestiture of these assets, many of our retail markets are now non-contiguous and require network expansion, improvements and roaming support to ensure ongoing nationwide coverage. We believe broad regional or nationwide coverage remains important to a large portion of our customer base. Many of our competitors have regional or national networks that enable them to offer automatic roaming services to their subscribers at a lower cost than we can offer. We currently have roaming agreements in place with several larger carriers, including Verizon Wireless, our main competitor, and expect to enter into additional roaming agreements with other carriers. This enables us to offer our customers competitively priced regional and international rate plans that include areas for which we do not own wireless licenses. We expect that we will be highly dependent on the roaming services we use from a mix of our competitors and other carriers. If we are unable to obtain or maintain roaming agreements with other wireless carriers that contain pricing and other terms that are competitive and acceptable to us and that satisfy our quality and interoperability requirements, we may no longer be able to offer these regional and international rate plans and the coverage area and pricing we offer to our customers may not be as attractive relative to the offers from our competitors and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Our network capacity and customer service systems may not be adequate and may not expand quickly enough to support our customer growth. Our financial and operational success depends on ensuring that we have adequate network capacity to accommodate anticipated new customers and the related increase in usage of our network. This includes capacity on our wireless and wireline networks and capacity on our inter- and intra-network transport facilities. Our failure to expand and upgrade our networks and transport facilities to meet the increased usage could impair our quality of service, cause a decline in customer satisfaction and have a material adverse effect on our business. 22 Table of Contents Our retail wireless network capacity plans generally rely on the following: •the ability to obtain and construct additional cell sites and other infrastructure equipment; •the ability to secure adequate transport capacity between our cell sites and our network switching and routing platforms and between those platforms and the Internet and other carriers. •the ability to obtain additional spectrum if required; and •the ability to obtain the capital to expand and upgrade our network. In addition, we must implement, manage and monitor effective procedures for customer activation, customer service, billing and other support services. Reliance on our customer service and handset procurement functions increases as we add new customers and offer new services and pricing plans. Our failure to timely and efficiently meet the demands for these services could decrease or slow subscriber growth or delay or otherwise impede billing and collection of amounts owed, which would adversely affect our revenue. We cannot make assurances that our customer service systems and network capacity will expand and adapt quickly enough to keep up with our anticipated customer growth and changes in services, and failure to do so would impair our ability to compete, which would adversely affect our results and financial operations. Our wireless and wireline revenues depend on the reliability and performance of our network infrastructure. We must operate our wireless and wireline networks so as to minimize any disruption that may occur to our services. The continued operation and growth of our networks and the implementation of new technologies and services involve operating risks that may disrupt our services and cause losses in revenue. Other risks that may also cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers include power loss, capacity limitations, software defects and breaches of security by computer viruses, break-ins or otherwise. Disruptions in our networks and the unavailability of our services could lead to a loss of customers, damage to our reputation and violation of the terms of our licenses and contracts with customers. These failures could also lead to significant negative publicity, regulatory problems and litigation. Rapid and significant technological changes in the telecommunications industry may adversely affect us. We face rapid and significant changes in technology. In particular, the telecommunications industry is experiencing significant technological changes, including the following: •evolving industry standards; •requirements resulting from changing regulatory regimes; •the allocation of new radio frequency spectrum in which to license and operate advanced wireless services; •ongoing improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology and shorter development cycles for new products and enhancements; •changes in end-user requirements and preferences; •the expansion of VoIP telephony services; •convergence between video and data services; 23 Table of Contents •development of data and broadband capabilities and rapidly expanding demand for those capabilities; and •migration to next-generation services, including the deployment of LTE or "4G" network technology, which may require the purchase of additional spectrum. For us to keep up with these technological changes and remain competitive, at a minimum we will be required to continue to make significant capital expenditures to add to our networks' capacity, coverage and technical capability. For example, we have spent considerable amounts adding higher speed, higher capacity mobile data services to many of our networks in recent years and we think it likely that more such expenditures will be needed over the next few years. For our U.S. wireless network, we are currently evaluating the feasibility of adding LTE mobile data technologies. We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. New technologies may be protected by patents or other intellectual property laws and therefore may not be available to us. Also, alternative technologies may be developed that provide communications services or alternative services superior to those available from us. Rapid changes in technology in our market may adversely affect our business. For example, to accommodate the demand by our wholesale wireless customers for next-generation advanced wireless products such as high-speed data and streaming video, we may be required to purchase additional spectrum. In addition, usage of wireless voice or broadband services in excess of our expectations could cause service disruptions and result in higher operating costs and capital expenditures to address capacity needs. In each of our markets, providing more and higher speed data services through our wireless or wireline networks may require us to make substantial investments in additional telecommunications transport capacity connecting our networks to the Internet, and in some cases such capacity may not be available to us or be available on attractive terms. We cannot assure you that we will gain access to spectrum or capacity at a reasonable cost or at all. Failure to provide these services could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete with carriers offering these new technologies in our markets. Increased customer demand for data coverage and usage may be difficult to support. Our most popular plans bundle certain features with unlimited local and U.S. long distance service and unlimited text messaging, along with mobile web, 411 services, navigation and data back-up, for a fixed monthly fee. Our competitors offer similar plans. Approximately half of our current handset lineup offers "smartphones" and other new devices, which allow customers to send and receive data files and use greater amounts of network capacity than other handsets and devices we offer. Demand for these "smartphones" and data services has been growing rapidly in recent periods, and our value to our wholesale wireless customers depends in part on our network's ability to support the services that such carriers' customers demand. For example, advanced mobile high-speed wireless data services, which allow customers to use the wireless network to send and receive data files and access the Internet at speeds approaching fixed broadband, have become increasingly popular. If customers exceed expected usage for our voice or data services, we could face capacity problems and our costs of providing the services could increase. Although we own less spectrum in our markets than our competitors, we continue to assess and seek to implement technological improvements to increase the efficiency of our wireless spectrum. We currently limit the amount of data used on a monthly basis per customer through our contract plans and will assess penalty fees if usage exceeds certain thresholds. However, if data usage increases faster than we anticipate and exceeds the then-available capacity of our network, our roaming costs may be higher than we anticipate or the quality of our service may be negatively affected, compelling us to increase our prices or alter our service offerings. As demand for advanced mobile data services continues to grow, we may have difficulty satisfying our retail customers and those of our wholesale roaming partners without 24 Table of Contents substantial upgrades and additional capital expenditures, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to acquire additional spectrum at a reasonable cost or on a timely basis. Due to the non-contiguous nature of our network, we may be required to acquire additional spectrum in our current and other markets to satisfy the increasing demand for data services described above, to deploy new technologies or to enter new markets. Due to the dearth of available spectrum in the market, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to acquire additional spectrum at a reasonable cost or at all or that additional spectrum would be made available by the FCC through auction or other means on a timely or economical basis. If such additional spectrum is not available to us on reasonable terms or at a reasonable cost, our ability to grow our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. A significant portion of our U.S. wholesale wireless revenue is derived from a small number of customers that could build or acquire overlapping networks. Our U.S. wholesale wireless business, which accounted for approximately 27% of our consolidated revenue in 2011, generates a substantial majority of its revenues from three national wireless service providers. In 2011, four national wireless service providers together accounted for substantially all of the wholesale wireless portion of our revenue. Our relationships with our roaming customers generally are much more financially significant for us than for our customers. If our markets are not included in our roaming partners' home calling areas and are instead subject to the imposition of additional roaming charges, we could see a loss of roaming minutes and revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we fail to keep any of our roaming customers satisfied with our service offerings or economic terms and lose their business or are unable to renew or enter into new agreements with these customers on beneficial terms (including pricing) to us, we could suffer a substantial loss of revenue, which would have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if these customers build or acquire wireless networks in our service areas we may lose revenue. Should any of these customers take such actions over a significant portion of the areas we serve, it may have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, the acquisition by Verizon Wireless of Alltel Corporation assets, and subsequent acquisition of divested Alltel assets by AT&T, has already resulted in each of AT&T and Verizon gaining their own infrastructure in markets where they were formerly served by us. This is expected to continue to result in a significant loss of revenue and operating income in future periods, which, if not offset by growth in other revenues we generate, could materially reduce overall operating profits. Risks Relating to Our Wireless and Wireline Services in Guyana Our exclusive license to provide local exchange and international voice and data services in Guyana is subject to significant political and regulatory risk. Since 1991, our subsidiary Guyana Telephone and Telegraph, Ltd. ("GT&T") has operated in Guyana pursuant to a license from the Government of Guyana to be the exclusive provider of domestic fixed and international voice and data services pursuant to a license with an initial term ending in December 2010, which was renewable at our sole option for an additional 20 year term. In November 2009, we notified the Government of Guyana of our election to renew our exclusive license for an additional 20 years. On December 15, 2010, we received correspondence from the Government of Guyana indicating that our licenses had been renewed until such time that new legislation is in place with regard to the Government's intention to expand competition within the sector; however, we 25 Table of Contents believe our exclusive license continues to be valid unless and until such time as we enter into a negotiated settlement with the Government. Since 2001, the Government of Guyana has stated its intention to introduce additional competition into Guyana's telecommunications sector. Since that time, we have met on several occasions with officials of the Government of Guyana to discuss potential modifications of our exclusivity and other rights under the existing agreement. In August 2011, the Government of Guyana introduced a bill into Parliament draft legislation, regulations, and licenses ("Draft Laws") that, if enacted, would have the effect of terminating our exclusive license by permitting other telecommunications carriers to receive licenses to provide domestic fixed services and international voice and data services in Guyana. The Draft Laws would also introduce material changes to many other features of Guyana's existing telecommunications regulatory regime. The legislation, however, was withdrawn from Parliament without being acted upon. We cannot predict when or if the proposed legislation will be introduced again into the next session of the Guyanese Parliament or if enacted, subsequently implemented by the Minister of Telecommunications. Although we believe that we would be entitled to damages or other compensation for any involuntary termination of our contractual exclusivity rights, we cannot guarantee that we would prevail in a proceeding to enforce our rights or that such actions would effectively halt any unilateral action by the Government. We are dependent on GT&T for a moderate portion of our revenues and profits. A loss of exclusivity on international voice and data service would result in a reduction in the international call traffic and as a result, a loss in wireline revenue. Any modification, early termination or other revocation of the exclusive domestic fixed and international voice and data license could adversely affect our revenues and profits and diminish the value of our investment in Guyana. Any significant decline in the price or volume, including as a result of bypass activities, of international long distance calls to Guyana could adversely affect our financial results. We collect payments from foreign carriers for handling international long distance calls originating from the foreign carriers' countries and ending in Guyana. The payments, which are based on volume and payment rates, are pursuant to arrangements we have with the foreign carriers and are subject to the actions of telecommunications regulators, such as the U.S. FCC. While our revenues from our inbound and outbound international long distance services in Guyana account for less than 5% of our consolidated revenue for 2011, they are important to our profits in this market. More than half of these revenues and profits were from collecting payments for international long distance calls into Guyana from other countries. Any decrease in the payment rate or the volume of inbound long distance calls would reduce the amount of the payments we collect. We believe the volume of international long distance voice traffic is increasingly being threatened by customers and illegal operators bypassing our international exchange through various means, including sending voice traffic as Voice over Internet Protocol (or VoIP). In 2008 and through 2011, this activity—whether by known carriers or small "black market" operators—increased significantly. Further reductions in the payment rates or a decline in inbound international long distance volume, through VoIP, competition or otherwise, would adversely affect our revenues and profits, and would deprive us of a critical source of U.S. currency as payments from foreign carriers to GT&T are in U.S. dollars. Other Risks Relating to Our Businesses and Industry The loss of certain licenses would adversely affect our ability to provide wireless and broadband services. In the United States, wireless, PCS and microwave licenses are valid for ten years from the effective date of the license. Licensees may renew their licenses for additional ten-year periods by filing renewal applications with the FCC. Our wireless licenses in the U.S. expire between 2012 and 2019. 26 Table of Contents The renewal applications are subject to FCC review and are put out for public comment to ensure that the licensees meet their licensing requirements and comply with other applicable FCC mandates. Failure to file for renewal of these licenses or failure to meet any licensing requirements could lead to a denial of the renewal application and thus adversely affect our ability to continue to provide service in that license area. Furthermore, our compliance with regulatory requirements such as enhanced 911 and CALEA requirements may depend on the availability of necessary equipment or software. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements may have an adverse effect on our licenses or operations and could result in sanctions, fines or other penalties. Regulatory changes may impose restrictions that adversely affect us or cause us to incur significant unplanned costs in modifying our business plans or operations. We are subject to U.S. federal, state and local regulations and foreign government regulations, all of which are subject to change. As new telecommunications laws and regulations are issued, we may be required to modify our business plans or operations. We cannot be certain that we can do so in a cost-effective manner. In addition, the failure to comply with applicable governmental regulations could result in the loss of our licenses or authorizations to operate, the assessment of penalties or fines or otherwise may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. Our operations in the United States are subject to the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (or 1996 Act). The interpretation and implementation of the provisions of the 1996 Act and the FCC rules implementing the 1996 Act continue to be heavily debated and may have a material adverse effect on our business. Also, although legislation has not yet been introduced, there have been indications that Congress may substantially revise the 1996 Act and other regulation in the next few years. In particular, the FCC is currently undertaking long-term Universal Service Fund ("USF") reform and has recommended, among other things, to cap universal service support for all competitive eligible telecommunications carriers and change the way USF support is disbursed to program recipients. It is not possible to predict whether or when any of proposed reforms will be adopted, however, implementation of some of the proposals could significantly affect the amount of USF support we receive and could have an adverse effect on our business. While we believe we are in compliance with federal and state regulatory requirements, our interpretation of our obligations may differ from those of regulatory authorities. Both federal and state regulators require us to pay various fees and assessments, file periodic reports and comply with various rules regarding our consumer marketing practices and the contents of our bills, on an on-going basis. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we may be subject to fines or potentially be asked to show cause as to why our certificate of authority to provide service should not be revoked. Increased competition may adversely affect growth, require increased capital expenditures, result in the loss of existing customers and decrease our revenues. We face competition in the markets in which we operate. For example: •In the United States, we compete with national and regional retail wireless providers that offer both prepaid and postpaid services whose scale, resources and U.S. network footprint are generally significantly greater than ours. If we cannot continue to provide competitive pricing or updated mobile voice and data services to our customers through roaming arrangements or the expansion of our own network, we could experience increased churn, net subscriber reductions or reduced revenue in our U.S. retail wireless business. •The greatest competitive risk to our wholesale roaming business is the possibility that our current customers may elect to build or enhance their own networks within the rural market in which we currently provide service, which is commonly known as "over-building." If our roaming customers, which generally have greater financial resources and access to capital than we do, 27 Table of Contents determine to over-build, their need for our roaming services will be significantly reduced or eliminated. •In Guyana, we have faced competition from Digicel, a wireless service provider operating across the region that has been very aggressive in acquiring a substantial share of the market. •In the Caribbean, we compete against Digicel and in Turks and Caicos, we compete with the incumbent wireless service provider as well. •In New England and New York State, in addition to other competitive voice and data communications service providers, we compete with much larger regional carriers, each of which has greater financial and other resources. Over the last several years, an increase in competition has contributed to a decline in prices for communication services, including local and long distance telephone service, data services and mobile wireless services. Increased competition may decrease prices further. In addition, increased competition could reduce our customer base, require us to invest in new facilities and capabilities and reduce revenues, margins and returns. Our foreign operations are subject to economic, political and other risks that could adversely affect our revenues or financial position. Our operations in Bermuda and the Caribbean may face adverse financial consequences and operational problems due to foreign political or economic changes, such as changes in national or regional political or economic conditions, or laws and regulations that restrict repatriation of earnings or other funds. In addition, we face risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Any of these changes could adversely affect our revenues or financial position. If we lose our senior management, our business may be adversely affected; we rely on local management to run our operating units. The success of our business is largely dependent on our executive officers and the officers of our operating units, as well as on our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified technical and management personnel. We believe that there is, and will continue to be, strong competition for qualified personnel in the communications industry and in our markets, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development of our business. The loss of key personnel or the failure to attract additional personnel as required could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not currently maintain "key person" life insurance on any of our key employees and none of the executives at our parent company are under employment agreements. We rely heavily on local management to run our operating units. Many of the markets we operate in are small and somewhat isolated and therefore it is particularly difficult attracting and retaining talented and qualified managers and staff in those markets. An economic downturn experienced by our subscriber base could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flow. The global economy could continue to experience an economic downturn due to the crisis in credit markets, slower economic activity, increased unemployment, concerns about inflation, increased energy 28 Table of Contents costs, decreased consumer confidence and other adverse business conditions. For example, among other things: •A decrease in tourism could negatively affect revenues and growth opportunities from operations in the islands and in a number of areas covered by U.S. rural wireless operations that serve tourist destinations. •An increase in "bad debt", or the amounts that we have to write off of our accounts receivable due to our inability to collect subscription fees from our subscribers. •We rely on the population of Guyanese living abroad who initiate calls to Guyana or are responsible for remittances to relatives living in Guyana. A prolonged economic downturn in the U.S. or Canadian economies could continue to affect inbound calling and, therefore, our revenue in Guyana. The impact, if any, that these events might have on us and our business is uncertain and cannot be estimated at this time. The occurrence of severe weather and natural catastrophes may materially disrupt our operations. Many of the areas in which we operate have experienced severe weather conditions over the years including hurricanes, tornadoes, blizzards, damaging storms and floods. Some areas in which we operate may also be at risk of earthquakes. Such events may materially disrupt and adversely affect our business operations. A major hurricane passed directly over Bermuda in 2003 causing major damage to our network and to the island's infrastructure. In 2008, a hurricane caused extensive damage on a small portion of the U.S. Virgin Islands and a separate hurricane negatively affected operations in the Turks and Caicos. Guyana has suffered from severe rains and flooding in two of the last five years. While these events have not had a significant negative impact on the operating results or financial condition of the affected businesses or our overall business, we cannot be sure that these types of events will not have such an impact in the future or that the insurance coverage we maintain for these risks will adequately compensate us for all damage and economic losses resulting from natural catastrophes. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure Our debt instruments include restrictive and financial covenants that limit our operating flexibility. Our credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and contains covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to take specific actions, even if we believe such actions are in our best interest. These include restrictions on our ability to do the following: •incur additional debt; •create liens or negative pledges with respect to our assets; •pay dividends or distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, our capital stock; •make investments, loans or advances or other forms of payments; •issue, sell or allow distributions on capital stock of specified subsidiaries; •enter into transactions with affiliates; or •merge, consolidate or sell our assets. Any failure to comply with the restrictions of the credit facility or any subsequent financing agreements may result in an event of default. Such default may allow our creditors to accelerate the repayment of the related debt and may result in the acceleration of the repayment of any other debt to 29 Table of Contents which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, these creditors may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to provide us with further funds. If we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the credit facility, the lenders could foreclose on and acquire control of substantially all of our assets. In connection with the incurrence of the indebtedness under the credit facility, the lenders received a pledge of our share of the capital stock of all of our subsidiaries, and, with some limited exceptions, are entitled to a pledge of the capital stock of any subsidiaries that we may acquire in the future. Additionally, the lenders under our credit facility generally have a lien on all of our U.S. assets and certain of our non-U.S. assets. As a result of these pledges and liens, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the credit facility (including meeting or exceeding certain financial measurements), the lenders would be entitled to foreclose on and liquidate substantially all of our assets, to the extent required to pay our obligations under the credit facility. As a result, the holders of our securities may lose a portion of, or the entire value of, their investment in our securities. Our Chairman is our largest stockholder and will continue to exert significant influence over us. Cornelius B. Prior, Jr., our Chairman and the father of our Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns, together with related entities and affiliates approximately 36% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, he is able to exert significant influence over all matters presented to our stockholders for approval, including election and removal of our directors and change of control transactions. In addition, as our Chairman, he has and will continue to have significant influence over other matters brought before our Board of Directors, such as proposed changes in our strategy or business plans and our major financing decisions. His interests may not always coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. Low trading volume of our stock may limit our shareholders ability to sell shares and/or result in lower sale prices. For the three months prior to March 1, 2012, the average daily trading volume of our common stock was approximately 28,000 shares. As a result, shareholders may have difficulty selling a large number of shares of our common stock in the manner or at a price that might be attainable if our common stock were more actively traded. In addition, the market price of our common stock may not be reflective of its underlying value. We may not pay dividends in the future. Our stockholders may receive dividends out of legally available funds if, and when, they are declared by our Board of Directors. We have paid quarterly dividends in the past, but may cease to do so at any time. Our credit facility limits our ability to pay dividends on, or repurchase, our capital stock. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future that may further restrict our ability to declare and pay dividends. We may also be restricted from paying dividends in the future due to restrictions imposed by applicable state laws, our financial condition and results of operations, capital requirements, covenants contained in our financing agreements, management's assessment of future capital needs and other factors considered by our Board of Directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 30 Table of Contents 