ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Future dividend payments and common stock repurchases are restricted by the terms of the U.S. Treasury’s equity investment in Mid Penn Under the terms of the CPP, for so long as any preferred stock issued under the CPP remains outstanding, Mid Penn is prohibited from increasing dividends to holders of its common stock above the last per share quarterly amount in effect immediately prior to October 14, 2008 ($0.20 per share), and from making certain repurchases of equity securities, including our common stock, without the U.S. Treasury’s consent until the third anniversary of the U.S. Treasury’s investment or until the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the preferred stock it purchased under the CPP to third parties. As long as the preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including Mid Penn’s common stock, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. Mid Penn is subject to interest rate risk Mid Penn’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond Mid Penn’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest Mid Penn receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) Mid Penn’s ability to originate loans and 9 Table of Contents MID PENN BANCORP, INC. obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of Mid Penn’s financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of Mid Penn’s mortgage-backed securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, Mid Penn’s net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on Mid Penn’s results of operations. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on Mid Penn’s financial condition and results of operations. Mid Penn is subject to lending risk As of December 31, 2010, approximately 69.0% of Mid Penn’s loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial, construction and commercial real estate loans. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or consumer loans. These types of loans are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. Because Mid Penn’s loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and industrial, construction and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for possible loan and lease losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on Mid Penn’s financial condition and results of operations. Mid Penn’s allowance for possible loan and lease losses may be insufficient Mid Penn maintains an allowance for possible loan and lease losses, which is a reserve established through provisions for possible losses charged to expense, that represents management’s best estimate of probable losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan and lease losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for possible loan and lease losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires Mid Penn to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem credits and other factors, both within and outside of Mid Penn’s control, may require an increase in the allowance. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review Mid Penn’s allowance for possible loan and lease losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan and lease losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance, Mid Penn will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for possible loan and lease losses. Any increases in the allowance will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on Mid Penn’s financial condition and results of operations. Competition from other financial institutions may adversely affect Mid Penn’s profitability Mid Penn’s banking subsidiary faces substantial competition in originating both commercial and consumer loans. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies and other lenders. Many of its competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources and higher lending limits, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. This competition could reduce the Corporation’s net income by decreasing the number and size of loans that its banking subsidiary originates and the interest rates it may charge on these loans. In attracting business and consumer deposits, its banking subsidiary faces substantial competition from other insured depository institutions such as banks, savings institutions and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. Many of Mid Penn’s competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources, more aggressive marketing campaigns, better brand recognition, and more convenient branch locations. These competitors may offer higher interest rates than Mid Penn, which could decrease the deposits that Mid Penn attracts or require Mid Penn to increase its rates to retain existing deposits or attract new deposits. Increased deposit competition could adversely affect Mid Penn’s ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations. As a result, Mid Penn may need to seek other sources of funds that may be more expensive to obtain and could increase its cost of funds. Mid Penn’s banking subsidiary also competes with non-bank providers of financial services, such as brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, credit unions, insurance agencies and governmental organizations, which may offer more favorable terms. Some of its non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern its banking operations. As a result, such non-bank competitors may have advantages over Mid Penn’s banking subsidiary in providing certain products and services. This competition may reduce or limit Mid Penn’s margins on banking services, reduce its market share and adversely affect its earnings and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents MID PENN BANCORP, INC. Mid Penn’s controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented Management periodically reviews and updates Mid Penn’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of Mid Penn’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on Mid Penn’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. Mid Penn’s ability to pay dividends depends primarily on dividends from its banking subsidiary, which is subject to regulatory limits Mid Penn is a bank holding company and its operations are conducted by its subsidiaries. Its ability to pay dividends depends on its receipt of dividends from its subsidiaries. Dividend payments from its banking subsidiary are subject to legal and regulatory limitations, generally based on net profits, and retained earnings, imposed by the various banking regulatory agencies. The ability of Mid Penn’s subsidiaries to pay dividends is also subject to their profitability, financial condition, capital expenditures and other cash flow requirements. There is no assurance that Mid Penn’s subsidiaries will be able to pay dividends in the future or that Mid Penn will generate adequate cash flow to pay dividends in the future. Federal Reserve Board policy, which applies to Mid Penn as a registered bank holding company, also provides that dividends by bank holding companies should generally be paid out of current earnings looking back over a one-year period. Mid Penn’s failure to pay dividends on its common stock could have a material adverse effect on the market price of its common stock. Mid Penn may not be able to attract and retain skilled people Mid Penn’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by Mid Penn can be intense and Mid Penn may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of Mid Penn’s key personnel could have a material adverse impact on Mid Penn’s business because of their skills, knowledge of Mid Penn’s market, years of industry experience, and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Mid Penn is subject to claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility From time to time, customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to Mid Penn’s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to Mid Penn’s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to Mid Penn they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of Mid Penn and its products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on Mid Penn’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on Mid Penn’s financial condition and results of operations. The trading volume in Mid Penn’s common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies Mid Penn’s common stock is listed for trading on NASDAQ; the trading volume in its common stock, however, is less than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of Mid Penn’s common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which Mid Penn has no control. Given the lower trading volume of Mid Penn’s common stock, significant sales of Mid Penn’s common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause Mid Penn’s stock price to fall. Mid Penn operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations Mid Penn is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or federal, state or local legislation could have a substantial impact on Mid Penn and its operations. Additional legislation and regulations that could significantly affect Mid Penn’s powers, authority and operations may be enacted or adopted in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Further, regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of regulatory authority may have a negative impact on Mid Penn’s results of operations and financial condition. In response to the financial crisis that commenced in 2008, Congress has taken actions that are intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in financial institutions, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has taken actions to increase insurance coverage on deposit accounts. The recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act provides for the creation of a consumer protection division at the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System that will have broad authority to issue regulations governing the services and products we provide consumers. This additional regulation could increase our compliance costs and otherwise adversely impact our operations. That legislation also contains provisions that, over time, could result in higher regulatory capital requirements and loan loss provisions for the Bank, and may increase interest expense due to the ability in July 2011 to pay interest on all demand deposits. In addition, there have been proposals made by members of Congress and others that would reduce the amount delinquent borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans 11 Table of Contents MID PENN BANCORP, INC. and limit an institution’s ability to foreclose on mortgage collateral. These proposals could result in credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. Recent regulatory changes impose limits on our ability to charge overdraft fees, which may decrease our non-interest income as compared to more recent prior periods. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations, or changes in policy, affecting many aspects of our operations, including capital levels, lending and funding practices, and liquidity standards. New laws and regulations may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business and otherwise affect our operations, and may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, the fees we can charge and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. The soundness of other financial institutions may adversely affect Mid Penn Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. Mid Penn has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose Mid Penn to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, Mid Penn’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by Mid Penn cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to Mid Penn. Any such losses could have a material adverse affect on the Mid Penn’s financial condition and results of operations. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented and may have materially adverse effects on our liquidity and financial condition The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than two years. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on stock prices, security prices, and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to their underlying financial strength. If the current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience adverse effects, which may be material, on our liquidity, financial condition, and profitability. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 12 Table of Contents MID PENN BANCORP, INC. 