ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Future dividend payments and common stock repurchases are restricted by the terms of the U.S. Treasury’s equity investment in MPB Under the terms of the CPP, for so long as any preferred stock issued under the CPP remains outstanding, MPB is prohibited from increasing dividends to holders of its common stock, and from making certain repurchases of equity securities, including our common stock, without the U.S. Treasury’s consent until the third anniversary of the U.S. Treasury’s investment or until the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the preferred stock it purchased under the CPP to third parties. As long as the preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including MPB’s common stock, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. MPB Is Subject To Interest Rate Risk MPB’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond MPB’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest MPB receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) MPB’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of MPB’s financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of MPB’s mortgage-backed securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, MPB’s net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. 9 Table of Contents MID PENN BANCORP, INC. Management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on MPB’s results of operations. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on MPB’s financial condition and results of operations. MPB Is Subject To Lending Risk As of December 31, 2008, approximately 70.4% of MPB’s loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial, construction and commercial real estate loans. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or consumer loans. These types of loans are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. Because MPB’s loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and industrial, construction and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for possible loan and lease losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on MPB’s financial condition and results of operations. MPB’s Allowance For Possible Loan and Lease Losses May Be Insufficient MPB maintains an allowance for possible loan and lease losses, which is a reserve established through provisions for possible losses charged to expense, that represents management’s best estimate of probable losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan and lease losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for possible loan and lease losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires MPB to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem credits and other factors, both within and outside of MPB’s control, may require an increase in the allowance. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review MPB’s and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan and lease losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance, MPB will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for possible loan and lease losses. Any increases in the allowance will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on MPB’s financial condition and results of operations. Competition from other financial institutions may adversely affect MPB’s profitability MPB’s banking subsidiary faces substantial competition in originating, both commercial and consumer loans. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies and other lenders. Many of its competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources and higher lending limits, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. This competition could reduce the Corporation’s net income by decreasing the number and size of loans that its banking subsidiary originates and the interest rates it may charge on these loans. In attracting business and consumer deposits, its banking subsidiary faces substantial competition from other insured depository institutions such as banks, savings institutions and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. Many of MPB’s competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources, more aggressive marketing campaigns, better brand recognition and more convenient branch locations. These competitors may offer higher interest rates than MPB, which could decrease the deposits that MPB attracts or require MPB to increase its rates to retain existing deposits or attract new deposits. Increased deposit competition could adversely affect MPB’s ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations. As a result, MPB may need to seek other sources of funds that may be more expensive to obtain and could increase its cost of funds. MPB’s banking subsidiary also competes with non-bank providers of financial services, such as brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, credit unions, insurance agencies and governmental organizations, which may offer more favorable terms. Some of its non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern its banking operations. As a result, such non-bank competitors may have advantages over MPB’s banking subsidiary in providing certain products and services. This competition may reduce or limit MPB’s margins on banking services, reduce its market share and adversely affect its earnings and financial condition. MPB’s Controls and Procedures May Fail or Be Circumvented Management regularly reviews and updates MPB’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of MPB’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on MPB’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents MID PENN BANCORP, INC. MPB’s ability to pay dividends depends primarily on dividends from its banking subsidiary, which is subject to regulatory limits MPB is a bank holding company and its operations are conducted by its subsidiaries. Its ability to pay dividends depends on its receipt of dividends from its subsidiaries. Dividend payments from its banking subsidiary are subject to legal and regulatory limitations, generally based on net profits and retained earnings, imposed by the various banking regulatory agencies. The ability of MPB’s subsidiaries to pay dividends is also subject to their profitability, financial condition, capital expenditures and other cash flow requirements. There is no assurance that MPB’s subsidiaries will be able to pay dividends in the future or that MPB will generate adequate cash flow to pay dividends in the future. MPB’s failure to pay dividends on its common stock could have a material adverse effect on the market price of its common stock. MPB May Not Be Able To Attract and Retain Skilled People MPB’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by MPB can be intense and MPB may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of MPB’s key personnel could have a material adverse impact on MPB’s business because of their skills, knowledge of MPB’s market, years of industry experience, and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Other than a Change of Control Agreement with the Chief Financial Officer, MPB does not currently have employment or non-competition agreements with any of its other senior officers. MPB Is Subject To Claims and Litigation Pertaining To Fiduciary Responsibility From time to time, customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to MPB’s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to MPB’s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to MPB they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of MPB and its products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on MPB’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on MPB’s financial condition and results of operations. The Trading Volume In MPB’s Common Stock Is Less Than That Of Other Larger Financial Services Companies MPB’s common stock is listed for trading on NASDAQ; the trading volume in its common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of MPB’s common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which MPB has no control. Given the lower trading volume of MPB’s common stock, significant sales of MPB’s common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause MPB’s stock price to fall. MPB operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations MPB is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or federal, state or local legislation could have a substantial impact on MPB and its operations. Additional legislation and regulations that could significantly affect MPB’s powers, authority and operations may be enacted or adopted in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Further, regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of regulatory authority may have a negative impact on MPB’s results of operations and financial condition. MPB must comply with significant anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws. Under these laws, MPB is required, among other things, to enforce a customer identification program and file currency transaction and suspicious activity reports with the federal government. Government agencies have substantial discretion to impose significant monetary penalties on institutions, which fail to comply with these laws or make required reports. The soundness of other financial institutions may adversely affect MPB Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. MPB has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose MPB to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, MPB’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by MPB cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to MPB. Any such losses could have a material adverse affect on the MPB’s financial condition and results of operations. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented and may have materially adverse effects on our liquidity and financial condition The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. In recent weeks, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on stock prices, security prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If the current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience adverse effects, which may be material, on our liquidity, financial condition, and profitability. 11 Table of Contents MID PENN BANCORP, INC. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 