Item 1A. RISK FACTORS - ---------------------- You should carefully consider the factors described below and other information contained in this report on Form 10K ("report"). The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us that we currently deem immaterial, or are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties and are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The words "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "seeks," variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our business and industry, our beliefs and certain assumptions made by our management. Investors are cautioned that matters subject to forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties including economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect our business and prospects. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. In order to obtain the benefits of these "safe harbor" provisions for any such forward-looking statements, we wish to caution investors and prospective investors about the following significant factors, which, among others, have in some cases affected our actual results and are in the future likely to affect our actual results and could cause them to differ materially from those expressed in any such forward-looking statements. These factors include: Current conditions in the global economy and the industries we serve may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business and operating results may be affected by worldwide economic conditions. As a result, existing or potential customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase our services, and may not be able to fulfill their obligations to us in a timely fashion. If the global economic slowdown continues for a significant period, or there is significant further decline in the global economy, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Prior to the year 2006, our operations had not been profitable and we cannot represent that they will continue to be profitable in the future. 6 For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 we had net income of $4,181,000, $2,100,000 and $269,000, respectively. Prior to 2006, we had a long history of losses and we cannot represent that we will continue to be profitable. We may not be able to obtain funds necessary for the ongoing operation of our business on terms which are acceptable to us. At December 31, 2008, we had working capital of $914,000 and at December 31, 2007 we had a working capital deficit of $1,613,000. In 2008 we had positive cash flow from operations of $1,923,000. Based on our current levels of operations and commitments, we believe we will need to continue to generate positive cash flows from operations in order to decrease our dependence on outside financing. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, adequate funds for us to operate our business on terms which we find acceptable, whether equity financing, debt financing or from other sources, may not be available as needed and may result in significant dilution to our existing security-holders. We have no additional bank or other credit facility or other readily available access to debt financing. If we are unable to secure additional funding when needed, we may be forced to decrease or eliminate certain current or expansion activities. Ultimately, our inability to obtain sufficient funds from operations or external sources would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and viability. The large number of shares available for future sale may adversely affect the market price of our stock. We have 10,686,739 shares of common stock outstanding as of March 16, 2009, of which approximately 5,093,000 shares are freely tradable. We also have 2,220,713 shares issuable upon exercise of options and warrants. If all of our outstanding options and warrants were exercised, we would have 12,907,452 shares outstanding. The issuance of such a large number of shares could have a significant adverse effect on the market for, as well as the price of, our common stock. A decline in the market price also may make the terms of future financings using our common stock or using convertible debt more burdensome. Our planned growth may cause a strain on our management and other resources. We are pursuing a business strategy that has involved and is expected to continue to involve significant growth over at least the next twelve months. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to achieve our planned growth. Accomplishing our objectives will depend upon a number of factors, including our ability to develop products internally with emphasis on the exploitation of our Invoices-on-Line products. We may also incur development, acquisition or expansion costs that represent a higher percentage of total revenues than larger or more established companies, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to compete favorably in the competitive information solutions industry. The market for our information solutions is intensely competitive. We face competition from a broad range of competitors, many of whom have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. We may not be able to compete effectively with such entities. Our operations are dependent upon key management personnel. We believe that our continued success depends to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management. In particular, the loss of James Cannavino, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, or any of our other executive officers or senior managers, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Internal control weakness The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports it files with the SEC is accumulated and communicated to management, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure, and such information is recorded, 7 processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we have evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as such term is defined by the rules established under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Based on our evaluation, we believe that these procedures were not effective as a result of limited resources and a limited segregation of duties in accounting and financial reporting. More specifically, the Company has a limited number of personnel in the finance and accounting area and therefore one person performs various accounting functions where a greater segregation of duties would permit checks and balances and reviews that would improve internal control. The Company has been aware of this material weakness since January 2004 at which time the staff of the accounting department was reduced. As a result the Chief Financial Officer devotes substantive time to reviewing the accounting records and financial reports and the Company expects that this will continue until financial resources permit engaging additional accounting staff. The Company has not determined at this time when such additional staff will be employed. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls or are unable to remediate the material weakness in our internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired and investors' perception that our internal controls are not adequate could have an adverse affect on our stock price. Two customers account for a significant percentage of our revenue. We have two customers that accounted for approximately 89% and 97% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The loss of either of these customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends upon protecting our intellectual property. The computer software industry is characterized by extensive use of intellectual property protected by copyright, patent and trademark laws. While we believe that we do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of any third parties in conducting our business, any allegations of infringement, or disputes or litigations relating to infringement, could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot prevent third parties from using our proprietary technology without our consent or without compensating us for the use of the technology, we believe that it could adversely affect our ability to compete. We cannot guarantee that our patents and copyrights will effectively protect us from any copying or emulation of our products in the future. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which may limit the liquidity and price of our securities more than if our securities were quoted or listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market or a national exchange. Our common stock is currently quoted and traded on the OTC Bulletin Board ("OTCBB"), a NASD-sponsored and operated inter-dealer automated quotation system for equity securities not included in the NASDAQ Stock Market or national exchange. Quotation of our securities on the OTC Bulletin Board may limit the liquidity and price of our securities more than if our securities were quoted or listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market or a national exchange. Some investors may perceive our securities to be less attractive because they are traded in the over-the-counter market. Institutional and other investors may have investment guidelines that restrict or prohibit investing in securities traded in the over-the-counter market. These factors may have an adverse impact on the trading and price of our securities. Trading in our common stock has been limited, so investors may not be able to sell as many of their shares as they want at prevailing prices. The average daily volume of trading in our common stock for the three month period ended March 16, 2009 was 2,925 shares. If limited trading in our common stock continues, it may be difficult for investors who purchase shares of common 8 stock to sell such shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. Also, the sale of a large block of our common stock could depress the market price of our common stock to a greater degree than a company that typically has a higher volume of trading of its securities. We cannot predict whether an active market for our common stock will develop in the future. In the absence of an active trading market: o Investors may have difficulty buying and selling or obtaining market quotations; o Market visibility for our common stock may be limited; and o Lack of visibility for our common stock may have a depressive effect on the market price for our common stock. Our common stock is subject to the SEC's penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be severely limited. Currently, we have net tangible assets less than $5,000,000 and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00. Therefore, transactions in our common stock are subject to the "penny stock" rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional investors: o Must make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; o Receive the purchaser's written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; o Provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify risks associated with investing in "penny stocks" and which describe the market for these "penny stocks" as well as a purchaser's legal remedies; and o Obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a "penny stock" can be completed. As a result of these requirements, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our stock will be significantly limited. Accordingly, the market price of our stock and other publicly traded securities may be depressed, and it may be more difficult to sell our shares. Our stock price may be volatile. The stock market in general and the market for shares of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations, often unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Many technology companies, including us, have experienced dramatic volatility in the market prices of their common stock. If our future operating results are below the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, our stock price may decline. We cannot be certain that the market price of our common stock will remain stable in the future. Our stock price may undergo fluctuations that are material, adverse and unrelated to our performance. Our charter provisions and statutory law may inhibit changes in control of our company. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions which may discourage takeover attempts and hinder a merger, tender offer or proxy contest targeting us, including transactions in which security-holders might receive a premium for their shares. This may limit your ability as a stockholder to approve a transaction that you may think is in your best interests. These provisions could reduce the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of common stock or preferred stock. Moreover, although our ability to issue preferred stock may provide flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, such issuance may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or may discourage a third party from acquiring, a majority of our voting stock. Furthermore, we may in the future adopt other measures that may delay, defer or prevent a change in control. We may adopt some of these measures without any further vote or action by security-holders. 9 Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may require additional financial and management resources. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 currently requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls for the year ended December 31, 2008 and requires that we have such system of internal controls audited beginning with the year ended December 31, 2009. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties and/or stockholder litigation. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports could harm our business. The development and/or enhancement of the internal controls to achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may increase our costs. We currently report a material weakness based on the lack of segregation of financial responsibilities. Weaknesses in our internal controls could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. 