RISK FACTORS The Group and its businesses are subject to various risks relating to changing competitive, economic, political, legal, social, industry, business and financial conditions. These conditions, along with TOTAL’s approaches to managing certain of these risks, are described below and discussed in greater detail elsewhere in this Annual Report, particularly under the headings “Item 4. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Other Matters”, “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” and “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk”. A substantial or extended decline in oil or natural gas prices would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Prices for oil and natural gas historically have fluctuated widely due to many factors over which we have no control. These factors include: • global and regional economic and political developments in resource-producing regions, particularly in the Middle East, Africa and South America; • global and regional supply and demand; • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and other producing nations to influence global production levels and prices; • prices of alternative fuels which affect our realized prices under our long-term gas sales contracts; • governmental regulations and actions; • global economic and financial market conditions; • war or other international conflicts; • cost and availability of new technology; • changes in demographics, including population growth rates and consumer preferences; and • adverse weather conditions (such as hurricanes) that can disrupt supplies or interrupt operations of our facilities. Substantial or extended declines in oil and natural gas prices would adversely affect our results of operations by reducing our profits. For the year 2009, we estimate that a decrease of $1.00 per barrel in the average annual price of Brent crude would have the effect of reducing our annual adjusted net operating income from the Upstream segment by approximately 0.15 B€ (calculated with a base case exchange rate of $1.30 per €1.00). In addition to the adverse effect on revenues, margins and profitability from any fall in oil and natural gas prices, a prolonged period of low prices or other indicators could lead to reviews for impairment of the Group’s oil and natural gas properties. Such reviews would reflect management’s view of long-term oil and natural gas prices and could result in a charge for impairment that could have a significant effect on our results of operations in the period in which it occurs. Lower oil and natural gas prices over prolonged periods may also reduce the economic viability of projects planned or in development, causing us to cancel or postpone capital expansion projects, and may reduce liquidity, thereby potentially decreasing our ability to finance capital expenditures. If we are unable to follow through with capital expansion projects, our opportunities for future revenue and profitability growth would be reduced, which could materially impact our financial condition. We face foreign exchange risks that could adversely affect our results of operations. Our business faces foreign exchange risks because a large percentage of our revenues and cash receipts are denominated in dollars, the international currency of petroleum sales, while a significant portion of our operating expenses and income taxes accrue in euros and other currencies. Movements between the dollar and euro or other currencies may adversely affect our business by negatively impacting our booked revenues and income. Our long-term profitability depends on cost effective discovery and development of new reserves; if we are unsuccessful, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. A significant portion of our revenues and the majority of our operating income are derived from the sale of crude oil and natural gas which we extract from underground reserves discovered and developed as part of our Upstream business. In order for this business to continue to be profitable, we need to replace depleted reserves with new proved reserves. Furthermore, we need to accomplish such replacement in a manner that allows subsequent production to be economically viable. However, our ability to discover or acquire and develop new reserves successfully is uncertain and can be negatively affected by a number of factors, including: • unexpected drilling conditions, including pressure or irregularities in geological formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • our inability to develop new technologies that permit access to previously inaccessible fields; • adverse weather conditions; • compliance with unanticipated governmental requirements; 4 Table of Contents • shortages or delays in the availability or delivery of appropriate equipment; • industrial action; and • problems with legal title. Any of these factors could lead to cost overruns and impair our ability to make discoveries or complete a development project, or to make production economical. If we fail to discover and develop new reserves cost-effectively on an ongoing basis, our results of operations, including profits, and our financial condition, would be materially and adversely affected. Our crude oil and natural gas reserve data are only estimates, and subsequent downward adjustments are possible. If actual production from such reserves is lower than current estimates indicate, our results of operations and financial condition would be negatively impacted. Our proved reserves figures are estimates reflecting applicable reporting regulations as they may evolve. Proved reserves are estimated using geological and engineering data to determine with reasonable certainty whether the crude oil or natural gas in known reservoirs is recoverable under existing economic and operating conditions. This process involves making subjective judgments. Consequently, estimates of reserves are not exact measurements and are subject to revision. They may be negatively impacted by a variety of factors which could cause such estimates to be adjusted downward in the future, or cause our actual production to be lower than our currently reported proved reserves indicate. The main factors which may cause our proved reserves estimates to be adjusted downward, or actual production to be lower than the amounts implied by our currently reported proved reserves, include: • a decline in the price of oil or gas, making reserves no longer economically viable to exploit and therefore not classifiable as proved; • an increase in the price of oil or gas, which may reduce the reserves that we are entitled to under production sharing and buyback contracts; • changes in tax rules and other government regulations that make reserves no longer economically viable to exploit; • the quality and quantity of our geological, technical and economic data, which may prove to be inaccurate; • the actual production performance of our reservoirs; and • engineering judgments. Many of the factors, assumptions and variables involved in estimating reserves are beyond our control and may prove to be incorrect over time. Results of drilling, testing and production after the date of the estimates may require substantial downward revisions in our reserve data. Any downward adjustment would indicate lower future production amounts and may adversely affect our results of operations, including profits as well as our financial condition. We have significant production and reserves located in politically, economically and socially unstable areas, where the likelihood of material disruption of our operations is relatively high. A significant portion of our oil and gas production occurs in unstable regions around the world, most significantly Africa, but also the Middle East, Asia/Far East and South America. Approximately 33%, 18%, 11% and 10%, respectively, of our 2008 production came from these four regions. In recent years, a number of the countries in these regions have experienced varying degrees of one or more of the following: economic instability, political volatility, civil war, violent conflict and social unrest. In Africa, certain of the countries in which we have production have recently suffered from some of these conditions. The Middle East in general has recently suffered increased political volatility in connection with violent conflict and social unrest. A number of countries in South America where we have production and other facilities, including Argentina, Bolivia and Venezuela, have suffered from political or economic instability and social unrest and related problems. In the Far East, Indonesia has suffered the majority of these conditions. Any of these conditions alone or in combination could disrupt our operations in any of these regions, causing substantial declines in production. Furthermore, in addition to current production, we are also exploring for and developing new reserves in other regions of the world that are historically characterized by political, social and economic instability, such as the Caspian Sea region where we have a number of large projects currently underway. The occurrence and magnitude of incidents related to economic, social and political instability are unpredictable. It is possible that they could have a material adverse impact on our production and operations in the future. We are subject to stringent environmental, health and safety laws in numerous jurisdictions around the world and may incur material costs to comply with these laws and regulations. We are exposed to risks regarding safety and security of our operations. Our workforce and the public are exposed to risks inherent to our operations that potentially could lead to injuries or loss of life and could result in regulatory action, legal liability and damage to our reputation. 5 Table of Contents We incur, and expect to continue to incur, substantial capital and operating expenditures to comply with increasingly complex laws and regulations covering the protection of the natural environment and the promotion of worker health and safety, including: • costs to prevent, control, eliminate or reduce certain types of air and water emissions, including those costs incurred in connection with government action to address concerns of climate change; • remedial measures related to environmental contamination or accidents at various sites, including those owned by third parties; • compensation of persons claiming damages caused by our activities or accidents; and • costs in connection with the decommissioning of drilling platforms and other facilities. If our established financial reserves prove not to be adequate, environmental costs could have a material effect on our results of operations and our financial position. Furthermore, in the countries where we operate or expect to operate in the near future, new laws and regulations, the imposition of tougher license requirements, increasingly strict enforcement or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations or the discovery of previously unknown contamination may also cause us to incur material costs resulting from actions taken to comply with such laws and regulations, including: • modifying operations; • installing pollution control equipment; • implementing additional safety measures; and • performing site clean-ups. As a further result of any new laws and regulations or other factors, we may also have to curtail or cease certain operations or implement temporary shutdowns of facilities, which could diminish our productivity and materially and adversely impact our results of operations, including profits. Security threats require continuous oversight and control. Acts of terrorism against our plants and offices, pipelines, transportation or computer systems could severely disrupt businesses and operations and could cause harm to people. Our operations throughout the developing world are subject to intervention by various governments, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We have significant exploration and production, and in some cases refining, marketing or chemicals operations, in developing countries whose governmental and regulatory framework is subject to unexpected change and where the enforcement of contractual rights is uncertain. In addition, our exploration and production activity in such countries is often done in conjunction with state-owned entities, for example as part of a joint venture, where the state has a significant degree of control. In recent years, in various regions globally, we have seen governments and state-owned enterprises exercising greater authority and imposing more stringent conditions on companies pursuing exploration and production activities in their respective countries, increasing the costs and uncertainties of our business operations, which is a trend we expect to continue. Potential increasing intervention by governments in such countries can take a wide variety of forms, including: • the award or denial of exploration and production interests; • the imposition of specific drilling obligations; • price and/or production quota controls; • nationalization or expropriation of our assets; • unilateral cancellation or modification of our license or contract rights; • increases in taxes and royalties, including retroactive claims; • the establishment of production and export limits; • the renegotiation of contracts; • payment delays; and • currency exchange restrictions or currency devaluation. Imposition of any of these factors by a host government in a developing country where we have substantial operations, including exploration, could cause us to incur material costs or cause our production to decrease, potentially having a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including profits. We have activities in certain countries which are subject to U.S. sanctions and our activities in Iran could lead to sanctions under relevant U.S. legislation. We currently have investments in Iran and, to a lesser extent, Syria, Myanmar, Sudan and Cuba. U.S. legislation and regulations currently impose economic sanctions on these countries. Under the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (as amended, “ISA”), which implements sanctions against Iran with the objective of denying it the ability to support acts of international terrorism and fund the development of weapons of mass destruction, investments of $20 million or more in any 12-month period in the petroleum sector in Iran are prohibited, and may lead to a request for the imposition of sanctions (from a list that includes denial of financing by the U.S. Export-Import Bank and limitations on the amount of loans or credits available from U.S. financial institutions). In May 1998, the U.S. government waived the application 6 Table of Contents of sanctions for TOTAL’s investment in the South Pars gas field in Iran. This waiver, which has not been modified since it was granted, does not address TOTAL’s other activities in Iran, although TOTAL has not been notified of any related sanctions. However, European Union Council Regulation No. 2271/96 prohibits TOTAL from complying with any requirement or prohibition based on or resulting directly or indirectly from certain legislation, including ISA. This regulation also prohibits TOTAL from applying to extend its waiver for South Pars to other activities. In each of the years since the passage of ILSA (now ISA) until 2007, TOTAL made investments in Iran (excluding South Pars) in excess of $20 million. TOTAL’s activities in Iran are currently limited mainly to the implementation of two buyback contracts signed between 1995 and 1999 for two permits on which the Group is no longer the operator. As a result, TOTAL’s involvement consists essentially of being reimbursed for its past investments. In 2008, TOTAL’s production in Iran was 8.8 kboe/d, approximately 0.4% of the Group’s daily average worldwide production. TOTAL does not believe that its activities in Iran have a material impact on the Group’s results. In the future, TOTAL may decide to invest amounts in excess of $20 million per year in the country. TOTAL cannot predict interpretations of or the implementation policy of the U.S. government under ISA with respect to its possible future activities in Iran. It is possible that the United States may determine that these or other activities constitute activity prohibited by ISA and will subject TOTAL to sanctions. TOTAL does not believe that enforcement of ISA, including the imposition of the maximum sanctions under the current applicable law and regulations, would have a material negative effect on its results of operations or financial condition. Furthermore, the United States currently imposes economic sanctions, which are administered by the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control and which apply to U.S. persons, on Iran, Syria, Myanmar, Sudan and Cuba. TOTAL does not believe that these sanctions are applicable to any of its activities in these countries. In 2008, TOTAL’s average daily production in Syria amounted to 15 kboe/d and that in Myanmar to 14 kboe/d, in each case less than 1% of its average daily worldwide production. TOTAL has no active business in Sudan. TOTAL has no oil or gas production in Sudan and, to date, has not made any significant investments or industrial investments there. TOTAL has a production sharing contract for a block in southern Sudan, where it will consider proceeding with exploration and production activities when suitable legal and security conditions have been established. TOTAL has limited marketing activities in Cuba. Certain U.S. states have adopted legislation requiring state pension funds to divest themselves of investments in any company with active business operations in Iran or Sudan. On December 31, 2007, the U.S. Congress adopted the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act, which supports these state legislative initiatives. If TOTAL’s activities in Iran or Sudan were determined to fall within the prohibited scope of these laws, and TOTAL were to not qualify for exemptions provided by such laws, certain U.S. state pension funds holding interests in TOTAL may be required to sell their interests. If significant, such sales could have an adverse effect on TOTAL’s share price. For more information on TOTAL’s presence in Sudan, see “Item 4. Other Matters — Regulations concerning Iran and Sudan”. 