Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our results of operations and financial condition. Continued unfavorable economic conditions or reduced investments in technology-enabled services spending may harm our business. Our business depends on the overall demand for technology services spending, and on the economic health and general willingness of our current and prospective customers to make capital commitments. If the conditions in the U.S. and global economic environment remain uncertain or continue to be volatile, or if they deteriorate further, our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our customers sell capital goods, which is highly dependent on the disposable income of end consumers. Continued weak or volatile economic conditions, or a reduction in consumer spending may weaken our customers’ demand for electronic catalogs, websites, lead management or other technology-enabled services, or general information technology spending, which would likely harm our business and operating result s in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles, potential lower prices for our services, reduced sales, and reduced subscription renewal rates. We may become liable to our customers and lose customers if we have defects or disruptions in our service or if we provide poor service. Because we deliver some of our technology as a service, errors or defects in the software applications underlying our service, or a failure of our hosting infrastructure, may make our services, in particular our eCommerce services, unavailable to our customers. Since our customers use our eCommerce services to facilitate their sales, any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems with our services, whether in connection with the day-to-day operation of our services, upgrades or otherwise, could damage our customers’ businesses. Despite the implementation of security measures, the core of our network infrastructure is vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, equipment failure and other disruptive problems, including the following: ● we and our users may experience interruptions in service as a result of the accidental or intentional actions of Internet users, current and former employees or others; ● unauthorized access may jeopardize the security of confidential information stored in our computer systems and our customers’ computer systems, which may result in liability to our customers and also may deter potential customers; ● we may face liability for transmitting viruses to third parties that damage or impair their access to computer networks, programs, data or information; ● there may be a systemic failure of Internet communications, leading to claims associated with the general unavailability of some of our products; or ● eliminating computer viruses and alleviating other security or technical problems may require interruptions, delays or cessation of service to our customers. If we have any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems with our services, customers could elect not to renew, or delay or withhold payment to us, we could lose future sales or customers may make claims against us, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or litigation costs. Our core markets and verticals are competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results may be harmed. The markets for electronic catalog, websites, lead management and other technology-enabled services targeted at the equipment industry are competitive, and the eCommerce area, specifically, is rapidly changing with relatively low barriers to entry. With the introduction of new technologies and market entrants, we expect competition to remain intense. In addition, increased competition generally could result in reduced sales, reduced margin or the failure of our services to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance. Competition in our market is based principally upon service breadth and functionality; service performance, security and reliability; ability to tailor and customize services for a specific company, vertical market or industry; ease of use of the service; speed and ease of deployment, integration and configuratio n; total cost of ownership, including price and implementation and support costs; professional services implementation; strength of customer relationships; and financial resources of the vendor. To compete effectively, we also must be able to more frequently update our services to meet market demand. Our principal competitors include Snap-on Business Solutions, 50 Below and Powersports Network. Some of our actual and potential competitors enjoy competitive advantages over us, such as greater name recognition within our target vertical markets, larger marketing budgets, as well as substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. If we are not able to compete effectively, our operating results will be harmed. 9 Index Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Because we recognize subscription revenue over the term of the applicable agreement, the lack of subscription renewals or new service agreements may not be reflected immediately in our operating results. The majority of our revenue in any given period is attributable to service agreements entered into during previous periods. A decline in new or renewed service agreements in any one period will not be fully reflected in our revenue in that period but will harm our revenue in future periods. As a result, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our services in a particular period may not be fully reflected in our operating results until future periods. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, because revenue from new custome rs must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. We expect that a portion of our revenue in the future will be derived from non-recurring fee income, which consists primarily of revenues from professional services such as software customization and training, software sales and one-time network installation fees. The timing of receipt of this revenue is dependent upon several factors that we cannot predict. These factors include: ● the time required to close large license fee and development agreements (these agreements can be delayed due to customer requirements and decision-making processes); ● the seasonality of certain sectors of the equipment industry in which we operate; ● delays in the introduction of new products or services and their acceptance by customers; and ● delays in delivering customized software to our customers. Our costs are not entirely predictable and may vary from quarter-to-quarter due to acquisitions or non-recurring expenditures. Cash flows may also vary from quarter to quarter, depending on the timing of disbursements and customer payments, which exhibit considerable seasonality. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations will not necessarily be meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicative of our future performance. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and harm our operating results. A change in accounting standards or practices could harm our operating results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may harm our operating results or the way we conduct our business and may increase our compliance costs. Our business could suffer if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights or are liable for infringing the intellectual property rights of others. We regard our trademarks, proprietary technology and similar intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely upon trademark law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, strategic partners, and others to protect our proprietary rights, which can have only limited effectiveness. The development of the Internet has also increased the ease with which third parties can distribute our intellectual property without our authorization. We intend to pursue the registration of our material trademarks as necessary. We may not be entitled to the benefits of any such registration for an extended period due to the cost and delay in effecting such registration. In addition, effective protection may not be available in every country in which our products are available. Further, we may be subject to claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of the trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us and our licensees. Other parties may assert claims of infringement of intellectual property or other proprietary rights against us. These claims, even if without merit, could require us to expend significant financial and managerial resources. Furthermore, if claims like this were successful, we might be required to change our trademarks, alter our content or pay financial damages, any of which could substantially increase our operating expenses. We also may be required to obtain licenses from others to refine, develop, market and deliver new services. We may be unable to obtain any needed license on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and rights granted under any licenses may not be valid and enforceable. In the future we could be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of a lleged infringement of trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us and our licensees. Any such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 10 Index We are dependent on our management and employees. We are dependent on the services of our executive officers and other key employees. There can be no assurance, however, that we can obtain executives of comparable expertise and commitment in the event of death or voluntary departure of one of our executive offers or other key employees, or that our business would not suffer material adverse effects as the result of the death or voluntary departure. Further, the loss of the services of any one or more of these employees could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, we will also need to attract and retain other highly skilled technical and managerial personnel for whom competition is intense. If we are unable to do so, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our common stock has a very limited trading market. Our common stock is traded on the over-the-counter Bulletin Board LLC electronic quotation service, an inter-dealer quotation system that provides significantly less liquidity than the NASDAQ stock market or any other national securities exchange. In addition, trading in our common stock has historically been extremely limited. Because of the thinness of the market for our stock, the price of our common stock may be subject to manipulation. This limited trading may adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and reduction in security analysts’ and the media’s coverage of us. As a result, th ere could be a larger spread between the bid and the ask prices of our common stock and you may not be able to sell shares of our common stock when or at prices you desire. Our shareholder rights plan may permit our board to block a takeover attempt and adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our board of directors adopted a shareholder rights plan and declared a dividend of an associated right, which together are expected to have the effect of deterring any takeover of the Company that is not preceded by board approval of the proposed transaction. The existence of such shareholder rights plan may deter potential tender offers for our common stock or other acquisition offers and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control. We may not be able to identify, acquire and successfully integrate acquisitions. A key component of our growth strategy has been and will continue to be acquisitions and other business development opportunities that solidify or accelerate our market position in our core offerings and vertical markets. The successful implementation of this strategy depends upon our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, acquire such businesses on acceptable terms, finance the acquisition and integrate their operations successfully into ARI. There can be no assurance that such candidates will be available or, if such candidates are available, that the price will be attractive or that we will be able to identify, acquire, finance or integrate such businesses successfully. In addition, in pursuing such acquisition opportunities, we may compete with other entities with similar growth strategies; these competitor s may be larger and have greater financial and other resources than ARI. Competition for these acquisition targets could also result in increased prices of acquisition targets and/or a diminished pool of companies available for acquisition. The successful integration of these acquisitions also may involve a number of additional risks, including: (i) the inability to retain the clients of the acquired business; (ii) the lingering effects of poor client relations or service performance by the acquired business, which also may taint our existing business; (iii) the inability to retain the desirable management, key personnel and other employees of the acquired business; (iv) the inability to fully realize the desired efficiencies and economies of scale; (v) the inability to establish, implement or police ARI’s existing standards, controls, procedures and policies on the acquired business; (vi) diversion of management attention; and (vii) exposure to client, employee and other legal claims for activities of the acquired business prior to acquisition. In addition, an y acquired business could perform significantly worse than expected. The inability to identify, acquire, finance and successfully integrate acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on ARI or its estimated or desired business, income, growth or other condition and results. Future acquisitions may result in dilution to existing shareholders. The timing, size and success of acquisition efforts and any associated capital commitments cannot be readily predicted. Future acquisitions may be financed by issuing shares of common stock, cash, or a combination thereof. To the extent our common stock is used for all or a portion of the consideration to be paid for future acquisitions, dilution may be experienced by existing stockholders. 11 Index We face risks with our international strategy. Our business strategy includes increasing our presence in the non-U.S. equipment markets. This strategy presents a number of special risks, including: ● managing more geographically diverse operations; ● dealing with currency fluctuations; ● the increased costs of operation; ● only having a small number of employees in these markets; ● our dependence on value-added resellers and contractors to sell and service our products; ● a much smaller and more concentrated current customer base; and ● the assumption that U.S. international policy will remain favorable towards the countries in which we sell our products and services. Our historical losses have resulted in our weak balance sheet. While we have been profitable in recent years, we have experienced net losses in numerous fiscal years since our organization in 1981, resulting in an accumulated deficit of $92.0 million at July 31, 2010. We may not be able to maintain profitability or increase profitability in the future. As a result of our historical losses, our financial position has been weakened, and our ability to finance our growth is constrained. We will require a significant amount of cash to service our indebtedness. Our ability to generate cash depends on certain factors beyond our control. Our ability to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures and product development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our future operating performance and financial results will be subject, in part, to factors beyond our control, including dealer bankruptcies in the vertical markets we serve, and general economic, financial and business conditions. We cannot assure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future financing facilities will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt, we may be required to: ● refinance all or a portion of our debt or obtain additional financing, neither of which can be assured; ● sell some of our assets or operations; ● reduce or delay capital expenditures, research and development efforts and acquisitions; or ● revise or delay our strategic plans. If we are required to take any of these actions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would enable us to continue to satisfy our capital requirements or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of the our various debt instruments. 12 Index 