Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risk factors described below, together with the other information included in this Annual Report before you decide to invest in our securities. The risks described below are the material risks of which we are currently aware; however, they may not be the only risks that we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently view as immaterial may also impair our business. If any of these risks develop into actual events, it could 7 Table of Contents materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, the trading price of your shares could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business A decline in or substantial volatility of oil and gas prices could adversely affect the demand and prices for our products and services. The demand for our products and services is substantially influenced by current and anticipated oil and gas prices and the related level of drilling activity and general production spending in the areas in which we have operations. Volatility or weakness in oil and gas prices (or the perception that oil and gas prices will decrease) affects the spending patterns of our customers and may result in the drilling of fewer new wells or lower production spending for existing wells. This, in turn, could result in lower demand and prices for our products and services. Historical prices for oil and gas have been volatile and are expected to continue to be volatile. For example, over the last two years West Texas Intermediate crude oil prices have ranged from as low as $32.40 per barrel to as high as $145.31 per barrel and were $80.21 per barrel on March 4, 2010. Similarly, NYMEX Henry-Hub natural gas prices have ranged from monthly averages as low as $3.30 per million British thermal units, or MMBtu, to as high as $12.77 per MMBtu during the last two years. This volatility has in the past and may in the future adversely affect our business. A prolonged low level of activity in the oil and gas industry will adversely affect the demand for our products and services. Our business depends on spending by the oil and gas industry, and this spending and our business may be adversely affected by industry conditions that are beyond our control. We depend on our customers’ ability and willingness to make operating and capital expenditures to explore for, develop and produce oil and gas. Industry conditions are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, such as: • the level of drilling activity; • the level of oil and gas production; • the demand for oil and gas related products; • domestic and worldwide economic conditions; • political instability in the Middle East and other oil producing regions; • the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; • the price of foreign imports of oil and gas, including liquefied natural gas; • natural disasters or weather conditions, such as hurricanes; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; • the level of oil and gas inventories; • the cost of producing oil and gas; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • merger and divestiture activity among oil and gas producers; • the ability of our customers to obtain sufficient amounts of capital; and • governmental regulation. The volatility of the oil and gas industry and the consequent impact on drilling activity could reduce the level of drilling and workover activity by some of our customers. Any such reduction could cause a decline in the demand for our products and services. 8 Table of Contents Difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our results of operations are materially affected by volatility in credit and capital markets, which may have an adverse effect on us because our liquidity and ability to fund our capital expenditures is dependent in part upon our bank borrowings and access to the public capital markets. In the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the global credit crisis experienced during the second half of 2007 that continued into 2009, we could incur significant losses. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility. Factors such as business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the profitability of our business. Purchasers of our goods and services may delay or be unable to make timely payments to us. Adverse changes in the economy could affect earnings negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur, or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business. Control of oil and gas reserves by state-owned oil companies may impact the demand for our services and create additional risks in our operations. Much of the world’s oil and gas reserves are controlled by state-owned oil companies. State-owned oil companies may require their contractors to meet local content requirements or other local standards, such as joint ventures, that could be difficult or undesirable for the Company to meet. The failure to meet the local content requirements and other local standards may adversely impact the Company’s operations in those countries. In addition, many state-owned oil companies may require integrated contracts or turn-key contracts that could require the Company to provide services outside its core business. Providing services on an integrated or turnkey basis generally requires the Company to assume additional risks. Our inability to deliver our backlog on time could affect our future sales and profitability and our relationships with our customers. At December 31, 2009, our backlog was approximately $34.5 million. The ability to meet customer delivery schedules for this backlog is dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to, access to the raw materials required for production, an adequately trained and capable workforce, project engineering expertise for certain projects, sufficient manufacturing plant capacity and appropriate planning and scheduling of manufacturing resources. Our failure to deliver in accordance with customer expectations may result in damage to existing customer relationships and result in reputational damage, which could cause the loss of future business. Failure to deliver backlog in accordance with expectations could negatively impact our financial performance and thus cause adverse changes in the market price of our outstanding common stock. In addition, we may allow some of these contracts to be cancelled by the customer on short notice without substantial penalty. The cancellation by our customers of existing backlog orders, as a result of an economic downturn or otherwise, could adversely affect our business. We intend to expand our business through strategic acquisitions. Our acquisition strategy exposes us to various risks, including those relating to difficulties in identifying suitable acquisition opportunities and integrating businesses and the potential for increased leverage or debt service requirements. We have pursued and intend to continue to pursue strategic acquisitions of complementary assets and businesses. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • unanticipated costs and exposure to unforeseen liabilities; • difficulty in integrating the operations and assets of the acquired businesses; • potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired company; 9 Table of Contents • potential inability to properly establish and maintain effective internal controls over an acquired company; and • risk of entering markets in which we have limited prior experience. Our failure to achieve consolidation savings, to incorporate the acquired businesses and assets into our existing operations successfully or to minimize any unforeseen operational difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we may incur indebtedness to finance future acquisitions and also may issue equity securities in connection with such acquisitions. Debt service requirements could represent a burden on our results of operations and financial condition and the issuance of additional equity securities could be dilutive to our existing stockholders. If we are unable to successfully manage our growth and implement our business plan, our results of operations will be adversely affected. We have experienced significant revenue growth in past years. We believe this revenue growth was primarily attributable to our business expansion and to our advantage of delivering original equipment products and providing aftermarket services more rapidly than our competitors. To continue our expansion while maintaining our rapid response competitive advantage, we plan to further expand our operations by upgrading existing facilities and increasing manufacturing and repair capacity when appropriate based on market conditions. We believe our future success depends in part on our ability to manage this expansion when it is relevant. The following factors could present difficulties for us: • inability to integrate operations between existing and new or expanded facilities; • lack of a sufficient number of qualified technical and operating personnel; • shortage of operating equipment and raw materials necessary to operate our expanded business; and • inability to manage the increased costs associated with our expansion. If we do not develop and commercialize new competitive products, our revenues may decline. To remain competitive in the market for pressure control products and services, we must continue to develop and commercialize new products. If we are not able to develop commercially competitive products in a timely manner in response to industry demands, our business and revenues will be adversely affected. Our future ability to develop new products depends on our ability to: • design and commercially produce products that meet the needs of our customers; • successfully market new products; and • protect our proprietary designs from our competitors. We may encounter resource constraints or technical or other difficulties that could delay introduction of new products and services. Our competitors may introduce new products before we do and achieve a competitive advantage. Any such competitive failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. The cyclical nature of or a prolonged downturn in our industry could affect the carrying value of our goodwill and/or long-lived assets. In 2008, we incurred goodwill impairments related to our pressure and flow control reporting unit totaling $23.5 million. See footnote 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for further discussion of our goodwill impairment. There were no significant long-lived asset impairments during 2007, 2008 or 2009, and there were no goodwill impairments during 2007 or 2009. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $88.8 million of goodwill and $81.4 million of long-lived assets. Our estimates of the value of our goodwill and/or long-lived assets could be further reduced as a result of our assessment of various factors, if they are sustained, 10 Table of Contents which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. The most important of these factors include: • further, and sustained, deterioration in global economic conditions; • changes in our outlook for future profits and cash flows; • reductions in the market price of our stock; • increased costs of capital; and/or • reductions in valuations of other public companies within our industry or valuations observed in acquisition transactions within our industry. One of our competitive strengths is our established brand name, and to the extent any joint venture that we participate in uses our brand name and delivers products or services that are not up to our standards of quality or service, this could diminish the value of our brand name and adversely affect our business. We currently participate in international joint ventures that use our brand name in which our rights and ability to control the joint ventures are limited. One of our competitive strengths is our established brand name and to the extent any such joint venture uses our brand name and delivers products and services that are not up to our standards of quality or service, our reputation and credibility could be damaged. Any such diminishment of the value of our brand name may lead to a loss in customer confidence, damage existing customer relationships, decrease market acceptance of our brand name, reduce demand for our goods and services, result in the loss of future business or impair our ability to expand in these markets, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on a few key employees whose absence or loss could disrupt our operations or be adverse to our business. Many key responsibilities within our business have been assigned to a small number of employees. Our future success will depend in substantial part on the continued service of our key employees and our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate outstanding and highly skilled individuals in the competitive labor markets in which we compete. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees could impede implementation and execution of our business strategy and result in the failure to reach our goals. Although we have employment and non-competition agreements with our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and some of our other key employees, as a practical matter, those agreements will not assure the retention of our employees, and we may not be able to enforce all of the provisions in any employment or non-competition agreement. In addition, we do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies on any of our employees. As a result, we are not insured against any losses resulting from the death or disability of our key employees. Some of our products require the use of elastomer products in their manufacture. Any negative developments in the availability or costs of these elastomer products could adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. We are dependent upon third-party sources, including competitors, for elastomer products used in the manufacture of some of our products, the availability of which cannot be assured. Any sustained interruption in the availability of these elastomer products could impair the manufacturing of our products and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If there is a significant increase in the costs of such elastomer products and we are unable to pass the increased costs on to our customers in the form of higher prices, it could cause our cash flow and results of operations to decline. Shortages of raw materials may restrict our operations. The forgings, castings and outsourced coating services necessary for us to make our products can be in high demand from our competitors and from participants in other industries. There can be no assurance that we will be 11 Table of Contents able to continue to purchase these raw materials on a timely basis or at acceptable prices. Shortages could result in increased prices that we may be unable to pass on to customers. In addition, during periods of shortages, delivery times may be substantially longer. Any significant delay in our obtaining raw materials would have a corresponding delay in the manufacturing and delivery of our products. Any such delay might jeopardize our relationships with our customers and result in a loss of future business. The oilfield service industry in which we operate is highly competitive, which may result in a loss of market share or a decrease in revenue or profit margins. Our products and services are subject to competition from a number of similarly sized or larger businesses. Factors that affect competition include timely delivery of products and services, reputation, price, manufacturing capabilities, availability of plant capacity, performance and dependability. Any failure to adapt to a changing competitive environment may result in a loss of market share and a decrease in revenue and profit margins. If we cannot maintain our rapid response times, or if our competitors are able to reduce their response times, we may lose future business. In addition, many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, which may allow them to address these factors more effectively than we can or weather industry downturns more easily than we can. Liability to customers under warranties may materially and adversely affect our earnings. We provide warranties as to the proper operation and conformance to specifications of the products we manufacture. Failure of our products to operate properly or to meet specifications may increase our costs by requiring additional engineering resources and services, replacement of parts and equipment or monetary reimbursement to a customer. We have in the past received warranty claims, and we expect to continue to receive them in the future. To the extent that we incur substantial warranty claims in any period, our reputation, our ability to obtain future business and our earnings could be adversely affected. We may be faced with product liability claims, which could materially and adversely affect our earnings. Most of our products are used in hazardous drilling and production applications where an accident or a failure of a product can cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to property, equipment or the environment or suspension of operations. Despite our quality assurance measures, defects may occur in our products. Any defects could give rise to liability for damages, including consequential damages, and could impair the market’s acceptance of our products. Our contractual disclaimers of responsibility for consequential damages may not be effective. Although we carry product liability insurance as a part of our commercial general liability coverage, our insurance may not adequately cover our costs arising from defects in our products or otherwise. Uninsured or underinsured claims or litigation or an increase in our insurance premiums could adversely impact our results. We maintain insurance to cover potential claims and losses, including claims for personal injury or death resulting from the use of our products. We carry comprehensive insurance, including business interruption insurance, subject to deductibles. However, it is possible an unexpected judgment could be rendered against us in cases in which we could be uninsured or underinsured and beyond the amounts we currently have reserved or anticipate incurring. Significant increases in the cost of insurance and more restrictive coverage may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage at rates we believe are reasonable. Our operations are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our operations in the U.S. and abroad are subject to stringent federal, state, provincial and local environmental laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment and environmental protection. These laws and regulations require us to acquire permits to conduct regulated activities, to incur capital expenditures to limit or prevent releases of materials from our facilities, and to respond to liabilities for pollution resulting 12 Table of Contents from our operations. Governmental authorities enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly actions. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. There is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in our business due to our handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, the release of air emissions or water discharges in connection with our operations, and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices conducted by us or our predecessors. Strict and, under certain circumstances, joint and several liability may be incurred in connection with discharges or releases of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes on, under or from our properties and facilities, many of which have been used for industrial purposes for a number of years, oftentimes by third parties not under our control. Private parties who use our products and facilities where our petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations and for personal injury or property damage. In addition, changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any such changes that result in more stringent and costly requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for our services and products. On December 15, 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other “greenhouse gases” present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings allow the EPA to adopt and implement regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. Accordingly, the EPA has proposed regulations that would require a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and could trigger permit review for greenhouse gas emissions from certain stationary sources. In addition, on October 30, 2009, the EPA published a final rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States, including sources emitting more than 25,000 tons of greenhouse gases on an annual basis, beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. Also, on June 26, 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the “American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009,” or “ACESA,” which would establish an economy-wide cap-and-trade program to reduce U.S. emissions of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide and methane. ACESA would require a 17% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from 2005 levels by 2020 and just over an 80% reduction of such emissions by 2050. Under this legislation, the EPA would issue a capped and steadily declining number of tradable emissions allowances authorizing emissions of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. These reductions would be expected to cause the cost of allowances to escalate significantly over time. The net effect of ACESA will be to impose increasing costs on the combustion of carbon-based fuels such as oil, refined petroleum products, and natural gas. The U.S. Senate has begun work on its own legislation for restricting domestic greenhouse gas emissions and the Obama Administration has indicated its support for legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through an emission allowance system. At the state level, more than one-third of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, already have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. The adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of greenhouse gases from, our equipment and operations or those of customers for whom we provide oil and natural gas-related manufactured products or associated repair and maintenance services could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases associated with our operations or could adversely affect demand for our products and services. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations. 13 Table of Contents Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in certain of our customers encountering increased costs or additional operating restrictions or delays in connection with their drilling activities in shale formations throughout the United States. This could negatively impact our operations and expansion efforts in the Marcellus Shale region. Congress is currently considering legislation to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and natural gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and commonly used process in the completion of unconventional natural gas wells in shale formations. This process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate natural gas production. Sponsors of two companion bills, which are currently pending in the Energy and Commerce Committee and the Environmental and Public Works Committee of the House of Representatives and Senate, respectively, have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. The proposed legislation would require the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process, which could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. In addition, this legislation, if adopted, could establish an additional level of regulation at the federal level that could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens for companies engaged in hydraulic fracturing activities. The adoption of any future federal or state laws or implementation of regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or otherwise limiting, the hydraulic fracturing process could make it more difficult for certain of our customers to complete natural gas wells in shale formations, including the Marcellus Shale in the northeastern United States, and increase the costs of compliance and doing business for our customers operating in these geographical areas. This could lead to a decrease in the demand for our services and have a material negative impact on our efforts to expand into the Marcellus Shale region, which we began in 2009. Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to the oil and gas exploration and production activities of certain of our customers may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. Among the changes contained in President Obama’s budget proposal for fiscal year 2011, released by the White House on February 1, 2010, is the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax preferences currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies. Such changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties; (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs; (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain U.S. production activities; and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear, however, whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon such changes could be effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of the budget proposal or any other similar change in U.S. federal income tax law could eliminate certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect our customers and cause them to reduce their capital expenditures. This could lead to a decrease in the demand for our services and have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties as we expand our international operations. We intend to continue our expansion into international markets. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in any business operating in foreign countries including, but not limited to: • political, social and economic instability; • currency fluctuations; and • government regulation that is beyond our control. Our exposure to these risks will increase as our international operations expand. To the extent we make investments in foreign facilities or receive revenues in currencies other than U.S. dollars, the value of our assets and our income could be adversely affected by fluctuations in the value of local currencies. 14 Table of Contents We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. FCPA and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The U.S. FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. If we are found to be liable for FCPA violations (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others, including our partners in our various strategic alliances), we could suffer from civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Civil penalties under the antibribery provisions of the FCPA could range up to $10,000 per violation, with a criminal fine up to the greater of $2 million per violation or twice the gross pecuniary gain to us or twice the gross pecuniary loss to others, if larger. Civil penalties under the accounting provisions of the FCPA can range up to $500,000 per violation and a company that knowingly commits a violation can be fined up to $25 million per violation. In addition, both the Commission and the Department of Justice could assert that conduct extending over a period of time may constitute multiple violations for purposes of assessing the penalty amounts. Often, dispositions for these types of matters result in modifications to business practices and compliance programs and possibly a monitor being appointed to review future business and practices with the goal of ensuring compliance with the FCPA. We could also face fines, sanctions and other penalties from authorities in the relevant foreign jurisdictions, including prohibition of our participating in or curtailment of business operations in those jurisdictions and the seizure of rigs or other assets. Our customers in those jurisdictions could seek to impose penalties or take other actions adverse to our interests. We could also face other third-party claims by directors, officers, employees, affiliates, advisors, attorneys, agents, stockholders, debt holders, or other interest holders or constituents of our company. In addition, disclosure of the subject matter of the investigation could adversely affect our reputation and our ability to obtain new business or retain existing business from our current clients and potential clients, to attract and retain employees and to access the capital markets. Our industry has historically experienced shortages in the availability of qualified personnel. Any difficulty we experience replacing or adding qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. Our operations require the services of employees having technical training and experience in our business. As a result, our operations depend on the continuing availability of such personnel. Shortages of qualified personnel are possible in our industry. If we should suffer any material loss of personnel to competitors, or be unable to employ additional or replacement personnel with the requisite level of training and experience, our operations could be adversely affected. A significant increase in the wages paid by other employers could result in a reduction in our workforce, increases in wage rates, or both. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance. The market price of our common stock has experienced, and will likely continue to experience, substantial volatility. During 2009, the sale prices of our common stock on The NASDAQ Global Select Market ranged from a low of $9.00 to a high of $27.31 per share. The closing sales price of our common stock on March 4, 2010 was $25.22 per share. We expect our common stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Factors that could cause fluctuation in the stock price may include, among other things: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • announcements of technological advances by us or our competitors; • current events affecting the political and economic environment in the United States; 15 Table of Contents • conditions or trends in our industry, including demand for our products and services, technological advances and governmental regulations; • litigation involving or affecting us; • changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock; and • additions or departures of our key personnel. The realization of any of these risks and other factors beyond our control could cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly. In particular, the market price of our common stock may be influenced by variations in oil and gas prices, because demand for our services is closely related to those prices. Our ability to issue preferred stock could adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 25,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series on terms that may be determined at the time of issuance by our board of directors. Accordingly, we may issue shares of any series of preferred stock that would rank senior to the common stock as to voting or dividend rights or rights upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Certain provisions in our charter documents have anti-takeover effects. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us. Such provisions, including those regulating the nomination and election of directors (including staggered elections for our board members) and limiting who may call special stockholders’ meetings, together with the possible issuance of our preferred stock without stockholder approval, may make it more difficult for other persons, without the approval of our board of directors, to make a tender offer or otherwise acquire substantial amounts of our common stock or to launch other takeover attempts that a stockholder might consider to be in such stockholder’s best interest. Because we have no plans to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future, investors must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their investment in us. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to support our operations and growth. Any payment of cash dividends in the future will be dependent on the amount of funds legally available, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. Additionally, our senior credit facility restricts the payment of dividends. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 16 Table of Contents 