ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the principal risks and uncertainties described in this section. Our level of production and our sales and earnings are subject to significant fluctuations as a result of the cyclical nature of the steel industry and the industries we serve The price of steel may fluctuate significantly due to many factors beyond our control. This fluctuation directly affects our product mix, production volumes and our sales and earnings. The steel industry has been highly cyclical and many of our products are subject to fluctuations in supply and demand. Highly cyclical industries such as the oil and gas, gas transmission, commercial equipment, rail transportation, and durable goods industries represent significant markets for our Company. Future economic downturns, stagnant economies or currency fluctuations in the United States or globally could decrease the demand for our products or increase the amount of imports of steel into the United States, which would decrease our sales, margins and profitability. We are also particularly sensitive to trends and events, including strikes and labor unrest that may impact these industries. Energy tubular products (excluding large diameter pipe) business is dependent on the demand for and pricing of oil and natural gas, which drives the number of active drilling rigs in both the United States and Canada. The large diameter pipe business is dependent on the existence of large pipeline projects. During times of lower demand from the oil and gas industry, we endeavor to shift steel production from tubular products towards steel mill products or cut-to-length products and vice versa. Prolonged weakness in the oil and gas industry and the existence of fewer large diameter pipe projects in combination with weakened plate demand could adversely affect our operations. Imports of steel into North America have, in recent years, adversely affected, and may yet again adversely affect, North American steel prices, which would impact the level of our sales, margins and profitability Excessive imports of steel into North America have in recent years caused, and may again in the future cause downward pressure on North American steel prices and significantly reduce our sales, margins and profitability. North American steel producers compete with many foreign producers. Competition from foreign producers is typically strong when the economies of certain foreign steelmaking countries weaken, and is further intensified during periods when the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to foreign currencies. Economic difficulties in these countries, combined with a reduction in demand for steel produced by these countries tends to encourage greater steel exports to North America at prices lower than the prices otherwise charged by North American producers. In addition, we believe the downward pressure on, and periodically depressed levels, of North American steel prices over the years have been further exacerbated by imports of steel involving dumping and subsidy abuses by foreign steel producers. For example, between 1998 and 2001, when imports of hot rolled and cold rolled products increased dramatically, domestic steel producers, including IPSCO, were adversely affected by unfairly priced or “dumped” imported steel. Even though various actions taken by the U.S. government during 2001, including the enactment of various steel import quotas and tariffs, resulted in an abatement of some steel imports during 2002 and 2003; these measures were only temporary. Many foreign steel manufacturers were granted exemptions from the application of these measures and President Bush, in December 2003, rescinded a substantial part of these measures, the so-called Section 201 tariffs, as a result of a November 10, 2003 World Trade Organization ruling declaring that the tariffs on hot-rolled and cold-rolled finished steel imports violated global trade rules, and as a result of economic and political pressures from foreign governments, including threats of retaliatory tariffs on U.S. exports. Moreover, there are products and countries that were not covered by these measures, and imports of these exempt products or of products from these countries may have an additional adverse effect upon our revenues and income. In any event, when any of these remaining measures expire, or if they are further relaxed or repealed, or if increasingly higher North American steel prices enable foreign steelmakers to export their steel products into North America even with the presence of duties or tariffs, the resurgence of substantial imports of foreign steel could again create downward pressure on North American steel prices. 11 The level of imports of OCTG, which has varied significantly over time, affects the domestic market for these goods. High levels of imports reduce the volume sold by domestic producers and tend to suppress selling prices, both of which have an adverse impact on our business. The level of imports of oil and gas casing and tubing and line pipe is affected by numerous factors, including: overall world demand for oil and gas casing, tubing and line pipe; domestic and foreign inventory levels of casing, tubing and line pipe; the purchasing pattern of distributors and end users; domestic and foreign trade policy; and the relative value of the U.S. dollar. Many foreign pipe producers are owned, controlled or subsidized by their governments and their decisions with respect to production and sales may be influenced more by political and economic policy considerations than by prevailing market conditions. Actions motivated by these factors could increase competition and cause our sales to decrease. Such increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We cannot predict the United States’ or any other government’s future actions regarding import duties or other trade restrictions on imports of oil and gas casing, tubing products, line pipe or other steel products, or the impact of these actions on our sales of oil and gas casing and tubing products or line pipe. A reduction or slowdown in China’s steel consumption could have a material adverse effect on global steel pricing and could result in increased steel exports into North America A significant factor in the worldwide strengthening of steel pricing over the past several years has been the significant growth in Chinese steel consumption, which has vastly outpaced that country’s manufacturing capacity to produce its own steel needs. This has resulted in China being a net importer of steel products, as well as a net importer of raw materials and supplies required in the steel manufacturing process. A combination of a slowdown in China’s economic growth rate and its resultant consumption of steel, coupled with its own expansion of steelmaking capacity, could result in a substantial weakening of both domestic and global steel demand and steel pricing. Should Chinese demand weaken, many Asian and European steel producers whose steel output currently fills China’s steel import needs could find their way into the North American market, through increased steel imports, thus causing an erosion of margins and a reduction in pricing. Excess global capacity in the steel industry and the availability of competitive substitute materials has resulted in intense competition and may continue to exert downward pressure on our pricing The highly competitive nature of the industry, in part, exerts downward pressure on prices for some of our products. Competition within the steel industry, both domestically and worldwide, is intense and it is expected to remain so. We compete primarily on the basis of (1) price, (2) quality and (3) the ability to meet our customers’ product needs and delivery schedules. We compete with other mini-mills, which may have cost structures and management cultures more similar to ours than integrated mills. However, we also compete with integrated producers of hot rolled products, many of which are larger and have substantially greater capital resources. As a result of the consolidation in the U.S. and worldwide, steel industry integrated producers have cost structures that are now much more competitive. This has been brought about by the bankruptcies and the resulting emergence of a number of integrated steel producers with lower capital costs, new or renegotiated union work rules and labor costs, the elimination or reduction of health care and pension legacy costs, the introduction of more incentive based compensation, and a more decentralized management structure. Likewise, with their lesser dependence on scrap as a component of their raw material mix, these producers may also from time to time enjoy a raw material cost advantage over the scrap-based mini-mills. The reduction in costs enjoyed by many integrated steel producers further increases the competitive environment in the steel industry and may contribute to future price declines. In addition, periodic global over-capacity in steel manufacturing or weak demand for steel products has historically had a negative impact on North American steel pricing. Both are likely to recur, and could have a negative impact on our sales, margins and profitability. Over the last decade, periods of weak demand, the construction of new mini-mills, expansion and improved production efficiencies of some integrated mills and substantial expansion of foreign steel capacity have all led to an excess of manufacturing capacity. Increasingly this overcapacity, when combined with periodic high levels of steel imports into North America, often at prices substantially below the exporters’ home market prices exerts downward pressure on domestic steel prices including the prices of our products, and has resulted, at times, in a dramatic reduction, or with many companies the elimination, of gross margins. In the case of certain product applications, we and other steel manufacturers also compete with manufacturers of other materials, including plastic, aluminum, graphite composites, glass, and concrete. 12 We may be unable to continue to pass on increases in the cost of scrap and other raw materials to our customers, which would reduce our earnings If we are unable to continue to pass on higher scrap and other raw material costs to our customers we will be less profitable. We may not be able to adjust our product prices or to continue to impose surcharges, especially in the short-term, to recover the cost increases from scrap and other raw material prices, which have reached historically high levels. Our principal raw material is scrap metal, and prices for scrap are subject to market forces largely beyond our control, including demand by U.S. and international steel producers, freight costs and speculation. A combination of a weak U.S. dollar, exceptionally strong Chinese and global demand for scrap, and lower production of domestic scrap due to a weak manufacturing economy and the continued loss of manufacturing to foreign competition have driven scrap offshore at exceptionally high prices, have reduced the available domestic scrap supply, and have caused the price of domestic scrap to soar to historical highs. These high scrap costs, even with the sharply increased pricing for our manufactured steel could erode or eliminate our gross margins. During January 2004, we implemented scrap surcharges keyed to published scrap indices. We have no assurance, however, that this will continue, or that customers will agree to pay ever higher prices for our steel products, sufficient for us to maintain our margins, without resistance or the selection of other suppliers or alternative materials. If this occurs, we may lose customers, we may be unable to pass these higher scrap costs on to our customers, and we may suffer an erosion of our earnings. Moreover, some of our integrated steel producer competitors are not as dependant as we are on scrap as a major part of their raw material melt mix, which, during periods of high scrap costs relative to the cost of blast furnace iron used by the integrated producers, even with the higher costs they must currently pay for iron ore, coke, coking coal and other raw materials used in their iron-making processes, may from time to time give them a raw material cost advantage over mini-mills. In addition, our operations require substantial amounts of other raw materials, including various types of alloys, refractories, oxygen, natural gas and electricity, the price and availability of which are also subject to market conditions. We rely upon third parties for our supply of energy resources consumed in the manufacture of our products. The prices for and availability of electricity, natural gas, oil and other energy resources are subject to volatile market conditions. These market conditions often are affected by political and economic factors beyond our control. Disruptions in the supply of our energy resources could temporarily impair our ability to manufacture our products for our customers. Increases in our energy costs could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We rely to a substantial extent on outside vendors to supply us with raw materials that are critical to the manufacture of our products. We acquire our primary raw material, steel scrap, from numerous sources throughout North America. Purchase prices and availability of these critical raw materials are subject to volatility. At any given time, we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of these critical raw materials on a timely basis or on price and other terms acceptable to us. If our suppliers increase the price of our critical raw materials, we may not have alternative sources of supply. In addition, to the extent that we have quoted prices to our customers and accepted customer orders for our products prior to purchasing necessary raw materials, we may be unable to raise the price of our products to cover all or part of the increased cost of the raw materials. If we are unable to obtain adequate and timely deliveries of our required raw materials, we may be unable to timely manufacture sufficient quantities of our products. This could cause us to lose sales, incur additional costs, delay new product introductions and suffer harm to our reputation. Fluctuations in inventory levels of oilfield products and service center products could adversely affect our sales Industry-wide inventory levels of tubular goods for the oil and gas industry can vary significantly from period to period depending on industry cycles. These changes can have a direct adverse effect on the demand for new production of tubular goods when customers draw from existing inventory rather than purchase new products. As a result, our oil and gas casing and tubing sales and results of operations may vary significantly from period to period. Excessive inventories could have a material adverse effect on price levels and the quantity of oil and gas casing and tubing and line pipe products sold by us. In addition, we cannot assure that any excess domestic capacity will be substantially absorbed during periods of increased domestic drilling activity since foreign producers of oil and gas casing and tubing and line pipe may increase their exports to the U.S. market. In addition, the Company sells significant amounts of plate, coil, cut-to-length, standard pipe, and hollow structural products to service centers. Inventory levels of service centers can vary significantly depending on industry cycles and may have an impact on our sales and results of operations due to excessive inventories. 13 Fluctuations in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies may adversely affect our business Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies may adversely affect our business. A strong U.S. dollar makes imported steel less expensive, potentially resulting in more imports of steel products into the United States by our foreign competitors. As a result, our steel products that are made in the United States may become relatively more expensive as compared to imported steel, which in the past has had and in the future could have a negative impact on our sales, revenues, margins and profitability. Unexpected equipment failures may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns Interruptions in our production capabilities would inevitably increase our production costs, and reduce our sales and earnings for the affected period. In addition to equipment failures, our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or weather conditions. Our manufacturing processes are dependent upon critical pieces of steelmaking equipment, such as our furnaces, continuous casters and rolling equipment, as well as electrical equipment, such as transformers, and this equipment may, on occasion, be out of service as a result of unanticipated failures. We have experienced and may in the future experience material plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of such equipment failures. Moreover, any interruption in production capability may require us to make significant capital expenditures to remedy the problem, which could have a negative effect on our profitability and cash flows. We may also sustain revenue losses in excess of any recoveries we make under any applicable business interruption insurance coverage we may have. In addition to such revenue losses, longer-term business disruption could result in a loss of customers, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Potential product liability claims relating to the products we manufacture and sell to the oil and gas industry could harm our business Our oil and gas casing, tubing and line pipe products are sold primarily for use in oil and gas drilling and transmission activities, which are subject to inherent risks, including well failures, line pipe leaks and fires, that could result in death, personal injury, property damage, pollution or loss of production, and potential resultant liabilities of the Company. We warrant our oilfield products to be free of various defects. Actual or claimed defects in our products may give rise to claims against us for losses and expose us to claims for damages. We cannot assure that our insurance will be adequate or available to protect us in the event of a claim or that the coverage will not be canceled or otherwise terminated. We may face risks associated with the implementation of our growth strategy As part of our growth strategy, we may expand our existing facilities, build additional plants, acquire other businesses and steel assets, enter into joint ventures, or form strategic alliances that we believe will complement our existing business. These transactions will likely involve some or all of the following risks: • the difficulty of competing for acquisitions and other growth opportunities with companies having materially greater financial resources • the difficulty of integrating acquired operations and personnel into our existing business • the potential disruption of our ongoing business and culture • the diversion of resources • the inability of management to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies • the difficulties of managing the growth of a larger company • the risk of entering markets in which we have limited experience • the risk of becoming involved in labor, commercial or regulatory disputes or litigation related to new enterprise • the risk of contractual or operational liability to our venture participants or to third parties as a result of our participation • the inability to work efficiently with joint venture or strategic alliance partners • the difficulties of terminating joint venture or strategic alliance arrangements. These transactions might be required for us to remain competitive, but we may not be able to complete any such transactions on favorable terms or obtain financing, if necessary, for such transactions on favorable terms. Future transactions may not improve our competitive position and business prospects as anticipated, and if they do not, our sales and earnings may be significantly reduced. 14 Environmental regulation imposes substantial costs and limitations on our operations We are subject to the risk of substantial environmental liability and limitations on our operations brought about by the requirements of environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning such issues as air emissions, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous materials and waste handling and disposal, and the investigation and remediation of contamination. These laws and regulations are increasingly stringent. While we believe that our facilities are and will continue to be in material compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, the risks of substantial costs and liabilities related to compliance with such laws and regulations are an inherent part of our business. Although we are not currently involved in any material remediation activities, it is possible that future conditions may develop, or be discovered that create substantial environmental remediation liabilities and costs. For example, our steelmaking operations produce certain waste products, such as electric arc furnace dust, which are classified as hazardous waste and must be properly disposed of under applicable environmental laws. These laws can impose clean up liability on generators of hazardous waste and other substances that are shipped off-site for disposal, regardless of fault or the legality of the disposal activities. Other laws may require us to investigate and remediate contamination at our properties, including contamination that was caused in whole or in part by third parties. While we believe that we can comply with environmental legislation and regulatory requirements and that the costs of doing so have been included within our budgeted cost estimates, it is possible that such compliance will prove to be more limiting and costly than anticipated. In addition to potential clean up liability, we may become subject to substantial monetary fines and penalties for violation of applicable laws, regulations or administrative conditions. We may also be subject from time to time to legal proceedings brought by private parties or governmental agencies with respect to environmental matters, including matters involving alleged property damage or personal injury. Our business requires substantial capital investment and maintenance expenditures, which we may be unable to provide Our business strategy may require additional substantial capital investment. We require capital for, among other purposes, managing acquired assets, acquiring new equipment, maintaining the condition of our existing equipment, completing future acquisitions and maintaining compliance with environmental laws and regulations. To the extent that cash generated internally and cash available under our credit facilities is not sufficient to fund capital requirements, we may require additional debt and/or equity financing. However, this type of financing may not be available or, if available, may not be on satisfactory terms. Future debt financing, if available, may result in increased interest and amortization expense, increased leverage and decreased income available to fund further acquisitions and expansion. In addition, future debt financing may limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and render us more vulnerable to economic downturns. If we fail to generate or obtain sufficient additional capital in the future, we could be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures and acquisitions, sell assets or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Our stock price may be volatile and could decline substantially Our stock price may decline substantially as a result of the volatile nature of the stock market and other factors beyond our control. The stock market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Many factors may cause the market price for our common stock to decline, including: • our operating results failing to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in any quarter • downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates • consolidation by other competitors in the industry • material announcements by us or our competitors • market perceptions concerning the steel cycle and our future earnings prospects • public sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock • governmental regulatory action • adverse changes in general market conditions or economic trends We may not continue to pay cash dividends in the future We cannot assure that we will continue to pay cash dividends or if we do, that we will do so at the current rate. We may elect at any time to retain all future earnings for use in the operation of our business and to fund future growth. Any future cash dividends will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, the availability of a surplus and other factors. 15 ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 