ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock is very speculative and involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information in, or incorporated by reference in, this report. The following are among the risks we face related to our business, assets and operations. They are not the only ones we face. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and you might lose all or part of your investment. This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. We use words such as “anticipate”, “believe”, “expect”,” 20 Table of Contents future” and “intend” and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements for many reasons, including the factors described below and elsewhere in this report. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this report. Risks Related To DUSA We Are Not Currently Profitable And May Not Be Profitable In The Future Unless We Can Successfully Market And Sell Significantly Higher Quantities Of Our Products. If We Do Not Become Profitable As Expected, We May Need More Capital. We have approximately $18,884,000 in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of December 31, 2008. Our cash should be sufficient for current operations for at least the next 12 months. While our goal is to become cash flow positive and profitable on a quarterly basis sometime late in 2009, if we are unable to do so, we may have to reduce our headcount, curtail certain variable expenses, or raise funds through financing transactions. We cannot predict whether financing will be available at all or on reasonable terms. Our Ability To Become Profitable Has Been Delayed Since We No Longer Sell and Distribute Nicomide® As A Prescription Product. In March 2006, we acquired Nicomide® in connection with our merger with Sirius Laboratories, Inc. Following investigation by the FDA of Actavis Totowa, LLC, the former manufacturer of Nicomide®, in April 2008, Actavis ceased manufacturing several prescription vitamins, including Nicomide®. The FDA considers prescription dietary supplements to be unapproved new drugs. In response to our discussions with the FDA, we stopped the sale and distribution of Nicomide® as a prescription product in June 2008. We are in discussions with the FDA regarding new labeling, including use of the trademark, in order to commercialize Nicomide® as a non-prescription dietary supplement in compliance with DSHEA. Should we re-launch the product with a DSHEA label, we expect both the price and volume of the Nicomide® DSHEA labeled product to be considerably less than historic prescription Nicomide® levels, thus delaying our ability to become profitable. We are also considering the sale or license of the product and related patent. On August 12, 2008, we entered into a worldwide non-exclusive patent License Agreement to our patent covering Nicomide® with River’s Edge Pharmaceuticals, LLC and an amendment to our Settlement Agreement with River’s Edge which we entered into in October 2007 to settle certain patent litigation. The amendment to the Settlement Agreement allows River’s Edge to manufacture and market a prescription product that could be substitutable for Nicomide® pursuant to the terms of the License Agreement and changes certain payment obligations of River’s Edge for sales of its substitutable product. In consideration for granting the license, we will be paid a share of the net revenues, as defined in the License Agreement, of River’s Edge’s licensed product sales under the License Agreement. If Product Sales Do Not Continue to Increase, We May Not Be Able To Advance Development Of Our Other Potential Products As Quickly As We Would Like To, Which Would Delay The Approval Process And Marketing Of New Potential Products. If we do not generate sufficient revenues from our approved products, we may be forced to delay or abandon our development program for solid organ transplant recipients or other programs we may wish to initiate. The pharmaceutical development and commercialization process is time consuming and costly, and any delays might result in higher costs which could adversely affect our financial condition. Without sufficient product sales, we would need alternative sources of funding. There is no guarantee that adequate funding sources could be found to continue the development of our technology. We might be required to commit substantially greater capital than we have available to research and development and we may not have sufficient funds to complete this program. 21 Table of Contents Any Failure To Comply With Ongoing Governmental Regulations In The United States And Elsewhere Will Limit Our Ability To Market Our Products And Become Profitable. The manufacture and marketing of our products are subject to continuing FDA review as well as comprehensive regulation by the FDA and by state and local regulatory authorities. These laws require, among other things: • approval of manufacturing facilities, including adherence to good manufacturing and laboratory practices during production and storage, • controlled research and testing of some of these products even after approval, and • control of marketing activities, including advertising and labeling. If we, or any of our contract manufacturers, fail to comply with these requirements, we may be limited in the jurisdictions in which we are permitted to sell our products. Additionally, if we or our manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory approval requirements, a regulatory agency may: • send warning letters, as received by the manufacturer of our BLU-U®, • impose fines and other civil penalties on us, • seize our products, • suspend our regulatory approvals, • cease the manufacture of our products, as Actavis Totowa did with Nicomide®, • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us, • refuse to permit exports of our products from the United States, • require us to recall products, • require us to notify physicians of labeling changes and/or product related problems, • impose restrictions on our operations, and/or • criminally prosecute us. We and our manufacturers must continue to comply with cGMP and Quality System Regulation, or QSR, and equivalent foreign regulatory requirements. The cGMP requirements govern quality control and documentation policies and procedures. In complying with cGMP and foreign regulatory requirements, we and our third-party manufacturers will be obligated to expend time, money and effort in production, record keeping and quality control to assure that our products meet applicable specifications and other requirements. Certain of the products acquired or licensed in connection with the Sirius merger, including Nicomide®, are regulated by FDA under its marketed unapproved drugs compliance policy guide entitled, “Marketed New Drugs without Approved NDAs or ANDAs.” Under this policy, the FDA recognizes that certain unapproved products, based on the introduction date of their active ingredients and the lack of safety concerns, have been marketed for many years and, at this time, will not be the subject of any enforcement action. The FDA has recently taken a more proactive role and is strongly encouraging manufacturers of such products to submit applications to obtain marketing approval and/or bring these products into compliance with current FDA regulations. As result of discussions with the FDA, we stopped the sale and distribution of Nicomide® and Psoriatec® as prescription products in June 2008. Our license agreement for Psoriatec® expired on September 30, 2008. Manufacturing facilities are subject to ongoing periodic inspection by the FDA, including unannounced inspections. We cannot guarantee that our third-party supply sources, or our own Kerastick® facility, will continue to meet all applicable FDA regulations. If we, or any of our manufacturers, including without limitation, the manufacturer of the BLU-U®, who has received warning letters from the FDA, fail to maintain compliance with FDA regulatory requirements, it would be time consuming and costly to remedy the 22 Table of Contents problem(s) or to qualify other sources. These consequences could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. As part of our FDA approval for the Levulan® Kerastick® for AK, we were required to conduct two Phase IV follow-up studies. We successfully completed the first study; and submitted our final report on the second study to the FDA in January 2004. The FDA has requested additional information, which was provided to them in June 2008. We are awaiting their response. Additionally, if previously unknown problems with the product, a manufacturer or its facility are discovered in the future, changes in product labeling restrictions or withdrawal of the product from the market may occur. Any such problems could affect our ability to become profitable. The Current Global Credit And Financial Market Conditions May Affect Our Business. Sales of our products are dependent, in large part, on reimbursement from government health and administration authorities, private health insurers, distribution partners and other organizations. As a result of the current global credit and financial market conditions, government authorities and private insurers may be unable to satisfy their reimbursement obligations or may delay payment. In addition, federal and state health authorities may reduce Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements, and private insurers may increase their scrutiny of claims. A reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement could negatively affect our product sales and revenues. Due to the recent tightening of global credit, there may be disruption or delay in the performance of our third-party contractors, suppliers or collaborators. We rely on third parties for several important aspects of our business, including portions of our product manufacturing, royalty revenues, clinical development of future collaboration products, conduct of clinical trials and the supply of raw materials. If such third parties are unable to satisfy their commitments to us, our business would be adversely affected. If the Economic Slowdown Affects Our Market, Our Cash Burn Will Increase And Our Ability To Achieve Profitability Will Be Delayed. We believe that a portion of our revenues are generated by patients that pay for their procedures out-of-pocket. If the recession causes these patients to postpone or cancel their procedures, our revenues could be reduced, and we will be required to use more of our cash. This could cause a delay in our ability to achieve profitability on a sustainable basis. We Have Significant Losses And Anticipate Continued Losses. We have a history of operating losses. We expect to have continued losses until sales of our products increase substantially. We incurred net losses of $6,250,000, $14,714,000 and $31,350,000 for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, our accumulated deficit was approximately $141,851,000. We cannot predict whether any of our products will achieve significant enough market acceptance or generate sufficient revenues to enable us to become profitable on a sustainable basis. If We Are Unable To Obtain The Necessary Capital To Fund Our Operations, We Will Have To Delay Our Development Program And May Not Be Able To Complete Our Clinical Trials. While we completed a private placement raising net proceeds of approximately $10.3 million in October 2007, we may need substantial additional funds to fully develop, manufacture, market and sell other potential products. We may obtain funds through other public or private financings, including equity financing, and/or through collaborative arrangements. We cannot predict whether any additional financing will be available at all or on acceptable terms. Depending on the extent of available funding, we may delay, reduce in scope or eliminate our SOTR research and development program. We may also choose to license rights to third parties to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise have attempted to develop and commercialize on our own which could reduce our potential revenues. The availability of additional capital to us is uncertain. There can be no assurance that additional funding will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all. Any equity financing, if needed, would likely result in dilution to our existing shareholders and debt financing, if available, would likely involve significant cash 23 Table of Contents payment obligations and include restrictive covenants that restrict our ability to operate our business. Failure to raise capital if needed could materially adversely impact our business, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If We Are Not Successful With The Reexamination Of Our Patent, We Could Lose Market Share. In January 2009, we filed a request for reexamination with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (“USPTO”) of one of the patents licensed from Queens University covering certain methods of using our product, Levulan®, for our FDA-approved indication. While we believe that the reexamination will strengthen the patent, there is no guarantee that the process will be successful since the USPTO reviews the entire prosecution history of a patent during a reexamination and could determine that some or all of the patent claims are invalid. Typically, a reexamination takes approximately 18 months to complete. The patent is due to expire in 2013. If the USPTO finds that the patent is invalid, generic competitors could enter the market and we could lose market share. This would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and make it more difficult for us to become profitable. We Have Limited Patent Protection, And If We Are Unable To Protect Our Proprietary Rights, Competitors Might Be Able To Develop Similar Products To Compete With Our Products And Technology. Our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on our ability to defend patents that have issued, obtain new patents, protect trade secrets and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We have no compound patent protection for our Levulan® brand of the compound ALA. Our basic ALA patents are for methods of detecting and treating various diseased tissues using ALA (or related compounds called precursors), in combination with light. We own or exclusively license ALA patents and patent applications related to the following: • methods of using ALA and its unique physical forms in combination with light, • compositions and apparatus for those methods, and • unique physical forms of ALA. The patents relating to methods of using ALA for detecting or treating disease, other than for acne and our approved indication for AKs of the face or scalp, start to expire in July 2009. The patents covering our AK product do not start to expire until 2013. In January 2009, we filed an application with the USPTO for reexamination of one of our patents. If the USPTO determines that the patent is invalid, generic competitors could enter the market. We have limited ALA patent protection outside the United States, which may make it easier for third-parties to compete there. Our basic method of treatment patents and applications have counterparts in only six foreign countries, and certain countries under the European Patent Convention. Even where we have patent protection, there is no guarantee that we will be able to enforce our patents. Additionally, enforcement of a given patent may not be practicable or an economically viable alternative. Some of the indications for which we may develop PDT therapies may not be covered by the claims in any of our existing patents. Even with the issuance of additional patents to DUSA, other parties are free to develop other uses of ALA, including medical uses, and to market ALA for such uses, assuming that they have obtained appropriate regulatory marketing approvals. ALA in the chemical form has been commercially supplied for decades, and is not itself subject to patent protection. There are reports of third-parties conducting clinical studies with ALA in countries outside the United States where PARTEQ, the licensor of our ALA patents, does not have patent protection. In addition, a number of third-parties are seeking patents for uses of ALA not covered by our patents. These other uses, whether patented or not, and the commercial availability of ALA, could limit the scope of our future operations because ALA products could come on the market which would not infringe our patents but would compete with our Levulan® products even though they are marketed for different uses. 24 Table of Contents Nicomide® is covered by a United States patent which issued in December 2005. River’s Edge Pharmaceuticals, LLC filed an application with the USPTO for the reexamination of the patent which was vacated by the USPTO on March 6, 2008. On October 28, 2007, we entered into a settlement agreement and mutual release, or Settlement Agreement, to dismiss the lawsuit brought by DUSA against River’s Edge, asserting a number of claims arising out of River’s Edge’s alleged infringement of U.S. Patent No. 6,979,468 under which DUSA has marketed, distributed and sold Nicomide®. Under the terms of the Settlement Agreement, River’s Edge unconditionally acknowledged the validity and enforceability of the Nicomide® patent. On August 12, 2008, we entered into a worldwide non-exclusive patent License Agreement to our patent covering Nicomide® with River’s Edge and an amendment to our Settlement Agreement with River’s Edge. The amendment to the Settlement Agreement allows River’s Edge to manufacture and market a prescription product that could be substitutable for Nicomide® pursuant to the terms of the License Agreement and changes certain payment obligations of River’s Edge for sales of its substitutable product. In consideration for granting the license, we will be paid a share of the net revenues, as defined in the License Agreement, of River’s Edge’s licensed product sales under the License Agreement. Another company has launched a substitutable niacinamide product, which may cause us to again consider litigation and the validity of the Nicomide® patent could be tested again. Also, new products have been launched that are competing with Nicomide®. These events, together with our decision regarding the marketing of Nicomide will delay our ability to be profitable. Furthermore, PhotoCure received FDA approval to market Metvixia® for treatment of AKs in July 2004, and this product, which would be directly competitive with our Levulan® Kerastick® product, could be launched at any time. While we are entitled to royalties from PhotoCure on its net sales of Metvixia®, a large dermatology company has the marketing rights in the U.S., which may adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our Levulan® market. While we attempt to protect our proprietary information as trade secrets through agreements with each employee, licensing partner, consultant, university, pharmaceutical company and agent, we cannot guarantee that these agreements will provide effective protection for our proprietary information. It is possible that all of the following issues could negatively impact our ability to be profitable: • these persons or entities might breach the agreements, • we might not have adequate remedies for a breach, and/or • our competitors will independently develop or otherwise discover our trade secrets. Litigation Is Expensive And We May Not Be Able To Afford The Costs. The costs of litigation or any proceeding relating to our intellectual property rights could be substantial even if resolved in our favor. Some of our competitors have far greater resources than we do and may be better able to afford the costs of complex patent litigation. For example, third-parties such as companies that have launched niacinamide products, may infringe one or more of our patents, and cause us to spend significant resources to enforce our patent rights. Also, in a lawsuit against a third-party for infringement of our patents in the United States, that third-party may challenge the validity of our patent(s). We cannot guarantee that a third-party will not claim, with or without merit, that our patents are not valid or that we have infringed their patent(s) or misappropriated their proprietary material. Defending these types of legal actions involve considerable expense and could negatively affect our financial results. Additionally, if a third-party were to file a United States patent application, or be issued a patent claiming technology also claimed by us in a pending United States application(s), we may be required to participate in interference proceedings in the USPTO to determine the priority of the invention. A third-party could also request the declaration of a patent interference between one of our issued United States patents and one of its patent applications. Any interference proceedings likely would require participation by us and/or PARTEQ, could involve substantial legal fees and result in a loss or lessening of our patent protection. 25 Table of Contents In October 2008, Winston Laboratories, Inc. filed a notice of demand for arbitration with us alleging that we breached the agreements relating to Psoriatec®. Although we are in settlement discussions, we intend to vigorously defend ourselves, and this proceeding will likely involve considerable legal expenses which could negatively affect our financial results. Since We Now Operate The Only FDA Approved Manufacturing Facility For The Kerastick® And Continue To Rely Heavily On Sole Suppliers For The Manufacture Of Levulan®, The BLU-U®, And Meted®, Any Supply Or Manufacturing Problems Could Negatively Impact Our Sales As Occurred With Nicomide®. If we experience problems producing Levulan® Kerastick® units in our facility, or if any of our contract suppliers fail to supply our requirements for products, our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. Although we have received approval by the FDA to manufacture the BLU-U® and the Levulan® Kerastick® in our Wilmington, Massachusetts facility, at this time, with respect to the BLU-U®, we expect to utilize our own facility only as a back-up to our current third party manufacturer or for repairs. Following investigation by the FDA of Actavis Totowa, LLC, the former manufacturer of Nicomide®, in April 2008 Actavis ceased manufacturing several prescription vitamins, including Nicomide®. The FDA considers prescription dietary supplements to be unapproved new drugs. In response to our discussions with the FDA, we stopped the sale and distribution of Nicomide® as a prescription product in June 2008. We are in discussions with the FDA regarding new labeling, including use of the trademark, in order to commercialize Nicomide® as a non-prescription dietary supplement in compliance with DSHEA. Should we re-launch the product with a DSHEA label, we expect both the price and volume of the Nicomide® DSHEA labeled product to be considerably less than historic prescription Nicomide® levels. We are also considering the sale or license of the product and related patent. Manufacturers and their subcontractors often encounter difficulties when commercial quantities of products are manufactured for the first time, or large quantities of products are manufactured, including problems involving: • product yields, • quality control, • component and service availability, • compliance with FDA regulations, and • the need for further FDA approval if manufacturers make material changes to manufacturing processes and/or facilities. We cannot guarantee that problems will not arise with production yields, costs or quality as we and our suppliers manufacture our products. Any manufacturing problems could delay or limit our supplies which would hinder our marketing and sales efforts. If our facility, any facility of our contract manufacturers, or any equipment in those facilities is damaged or destroyed, we may not be able to quickly or inexpensively replace it. Likewise, if there are quality or supply problems with any components or materials needed to manufacturer our products, we may not be able to quickly remedy the problem(s). Any of these problems could cause our sales to suffer. We Have Only Limited Experience Marketing And Selling Pharmaceutical Products And No Experience Marketing Dietary Supplements, As A Result, Our Revenues From Product Sales May Suffer. If we are unable to successfully market and sell sufficient quantities of our products, revenues from product sales will be lower than anticipated and our financial condition may be adversely affected. We are responsible for marketing our products in the United States and the rest of the world, except Canada, Latin America and parts of Asia, where we have distributors. We do not have experience marketing dietary supplement products like Nicomide®. If our sales and marketing efforts fail, then sales of the Levulan® Kerastick®, the BLU-U®, Nicomide® (if FDA labeling issues are resolved) and other products will be adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents The Commercial Success Of Any Product That We May Develop Will Depend Upon The Degree Of Market Acceptance Of Our Products Among Physicians, Patients, Health Care Payors, Private Health Insurers And The Medical Community. Our ability to commercialize any product that we may develop will be highly dependent upon the extent to which the product gains market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurers, including managed care organizations and group purchasing organizations, and the medical community. If a product does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate material product revenues, and we may not become profitable. The degree of market acceptance of our currently marketed products and our SOTR product candidate, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: • the effectiveness, or perceived effectiveness, of our product in comparison to competing products; • the existence of any significant side effects, as well as their severity in comparison to any competing products, • potential advantages over alternative treatments, • the ability to offer our product for sale at competitive prices, • relative convenience and ease of administration, • the strength of marketing and distribution support, and • sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. If We Cannot Improve Physician Reimbursement And/Or Convince More Private Insurance Carriers To Adequately Reimburse Physicians For Our Product, Sales May Suffer. Without adequate levels of reimbursement by government health care programs and private health insurers, the market for our Levulan® Kerastick® for AK therapy will be limited. While we continue to support efforts to improve reimbursement levels to physicians and are working with the major private insurance carriers to improve coverage for our therapy, if our efforts are not successful, broader adoption of our therapy and sales of our products could be negatively impacted. Although positive reimbursement changes related to AK were made over the last five years, some physicians still believe that reimbursement levels do not fully reflect the required efforts to routinely execute our therapy in their practices. If insurance companies do not cover our products, or stop covering our products which are covered, our sales could be dramatically reduced. We Have Only Three Therapies That Have Received Regulatory Approval Or Clearance, And We Cannot Predict Whether We Will Ever Develop Or Commercialize Any Other Levulan® Products. Our Potential Products Are In Early Stages Of Development And May Never Result In Any Commercially Successful Products. To be profitable, we must successfully research, develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, introduce, market and distribute our products. Except for Levulan® PDT for AKs, the BLU-U® for acne, the ClindaReach® pledget and the currently marketed products we acquired in our merger with Sirius, all of our other potential Levulan® and other potential product candidates are at an early stage of development and subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of new pharmaceutical products and products based on new technologies. These risks include: • delays in product development, clinical testing or manufacturing, • unplanned expenditures in product development, clinical testing or manufacturing, • failure in clinical trials or failure to receive regulatory approvals, • emergence of superior or equivalent products, 27 Table of Contents • inability to market products due to third-party proprietary rights, and • failure to achieve market acceptance. We cannot predict how long the development of our investigational stage products will take or whether they will be medically effective. We cannot be sure that a successful market will continue to develop for our Levulan® drug technology. We Must Receive Separate Approval For Any Drug or Medical Device Products Before We Can Sell Them Commercially In The United States Or Abroad. Any potential Levulan® product will require the approval of the FDA before it can be marketed in the United States. Before an application to the FDA seeking approval to market a new drug, called an NDA, can be filed, a product must undergo, among other things, extensive animal testing and human clinical trials. The process of obtaining FDA approvals can be lengthy, costly, and time-consuming. Following the acceptance of an NDA, the time required for regulatory approval can vary and is usually one to three years or more. The FDA may require additional animal studies and/or human clinical trials before granting approval. Our Levulan® PDT products are based on relatively new technology. To the best of our knowledge, the FDA has approved only three drugs for use in photodynamic therapy, including Levulan®. This factor may lengthen the approval process. We face much trial and error and we may fail at numerous stages along the way as happened with our acne trials. We cannot predict whether we will obtain any other regulatory approvals. Data obtained from preclinical testing and clinical trials can be susceptible to varying interpretations which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. Future clinical trials may not show that Levulan® PDT or photodetection, known as PD, is safe and effective for any new use we are studying as we experienced with our recent acne study. In addition, delays or disapprovals may be encountered based upon additional governmental regulation resulting from future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy. In response to our discussions with the FDA, we stopped the sale and distribution of Nicomide® as a prescription product in June 2008, which FDA considers to be an unapproved new drug. We are in discussions with the FDA regarding new labeling, including use of the trademark, in order to allow us or a third-party on our behalf to commercialize Nicomide® as a non-prescription dietary supplement in compliance with DSHEA. Should we re-launch the product with a DSHEA label, we expect both the price and volume of the Nicomide® DSHEA labeled product to be considerably less than historic prescription Nicomide® levels. We are also considering the sale or license of the product and related patent. Because Of The Nature Of Our Business, The Loss Of Key Members Of Our Management Team Could Delay Achievement Of Our Goals. We are a small company with only 86 employees, including 2 part-time employees, as of December 31, 2008. We are highly dependent on several key officer/employees with specialized scientific and technical skills without whom our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer, especially in the photodynamic therapy portion of our business. The photodynamic therapy industry is still quite small and the number of experts is limited. The loss of these key employees could cause significant delays in achievement of our business and research goals since very few people with their expertise could be hired. Our growth and future success will depend, in large part, on the continued contributions of these key individuals as well as our ability to motivate and retain other qualified personnel in our specialty drug and light device areas. Collaborations With Outside Scientists May Be Subject To Restriction And Change. We work with scientific and clinical advisors and collaborators at academic and other institutions that assist us in our research and development efforts. These scientists and advisors are not our employees and may have other commitments that limit their availability to us. Although our advisors and collaborators generally agree not to do competing work, if a conflict of interest between their work for us and their work for another entity arises, we may lose their services. In addition, although our advisors and collaborators sign agreements 28 Table of Contents not to disclose our confidential information, it is possible that valuable proprietary knowledge may become publicly known through them. Risks Related To Our Industry Product Liability And Other Claims Against Us May Reduce Demand For Our Products Or Result In Damages. We Are Subject To Risk From Potential Product Liability Lawsuits Which Could Negatively Affect Our Business. The development, manufacture and sale of medical products expose us to product liability claims related to the use or misuse of our products. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and may result in significant judgments against us. A successful claim in excess of our insurance coverage could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we cannot guarantee that continued product liability insurance coverage will be available in the future at acceptable costs. If the cost is too high, we may have to self-insure. Our Business Involves Environmental Risks And We May Incur Significant Costs Complying With Environmental Laws And Regulations. We have used various hazardous materials, such as mercury in fluorescent tubes in our research and development activities. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations which govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and specific waste products. We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with currently applicable environmental laws and regulations. However, we cannot guarantee that we will not incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future. We also cannot guarantee that current or future environmental laws or regulations will not materially adversely affect our operations, business or assets. In addition, although we believe our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and this liability could exceed our resources. We May Not Be Able To Compete Against Traditional Treatment Methods Or Keep Up With Rapid Changes In The Biotechnology And Pharmaceutical Industries That Could Make Some Or All Of Our Products Non-Competitive Or Obsolete. Competing Products And Technologies Based On Traditional Treatment Methods May Make Our Products Or Potential Products Noncompetitive Or Obsolete. Well-known pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies are marketing well-established therapies for the treatment of AKs and acne. Doctors may prefer to use familiar methods, rather than trying our products. Reimbursement issues affect the economic competitiveness of our products as compared to other more traditional therapies. Many companies are also seeking to develop new products and technologies, and receiving approval for treatment of AKs and acne. Our industry is subject to rapid, unpredictable and significant technological change. Competition is intense. Our competitors may succeed in developing products that are safer or more effective than ours. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. In addition, several of these companies have significantly greater experience than we do in developing products, conducting preclinical and clinical testing and obtaining regulatory approvals to market products for health care. We cannot guarantee that new drugs or future developments in drug technologies will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Increased competition could result in: • price reductions, 29 Table of Contents • lower levels of third-party reimbursements, • failure to achieve market acceptance, and • loss of market share, any of which could adversely affect our business. Further, we cannot give any assurance that developments by our competitors or future competitors will not render our technology obsolete. On May 30, 2006, we entered into a patent license agreement with PhotoCure ASA whereby we granted a non-exclusive license to PhotoCure under the patents we license from PARTEQ, for esters of ALA. Furthermore, we granted a non-exclusive license to PhotoCure for its existing formulations of its Hexvix® and Metvix® (known in the United States as Metvixia®) products for any DUSA patents that may issue or be licensed by us in the future. PhotoCure received FDA approval to market Metvixia for treatment of AKs in July 2004 and it would be directly competitive with our Levulan® Kerastick® product should PhotoCure decide to begin marketing this product. While we are entitled to royalties from PhotoCure on its net sales of Metvixia, this product, which will be marketed in the U.S. by a large dermatology company which may start to market Metvixia at any time, would adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our market. Our Competitors In The Biotechnology And Pharmaceutical Industries May Have Better Products, Manufacturing Capabilities Or Marketing Expertise. We are aware of several companies commercializing and/or conducting research with ALA or ALA-related compounds, including: medac GmbH and photonamic GmbH & Co. KG (Germany); Biofrontera, PhotoTherapeutics, Inc. (U.K.) and PhotoCure ASA (Norway) which entered into a marketing agreement with Galderma S.A. for countries outside of Nordic countries for certain dermatology indications. We also anticipate that we will face increased competition as the scientific development of PDT and PD advances and new companies enter our markets. Several companies are developing PDT agents other than Levulan®. These include: QLT Inc. (Canada); Axcan Pharma Inc. (U.S.); Miravant, Inc. (U.S.); and Pharmacyclics, Inc. (U.S.). There are many pharmaceutical companies that compete with us in the field of dermatology, particularly in the acne and rosacea markets. PhotoCure has received marketing approval of its ALA precursor (ALA methyl-ester) compound for PDT treatment of AKs and basal cell carcinoma in the European Union, New Zealand, Australia and countries in Scandinavia. PhotoCure’s marketing partner, a large dermatology company, could begin to market its product in direct competition with Levulan® in the U.S., at any time, under the terms of our patent license agreement and we may lose market share. Axcan Pharma Inc. has received FDA approval for the use of its product, PHOTOFRIN®, for PDT in the treatment of high grade dysplasia associated with Barrett’s Esophagus. Axcan is the first company to market a PDT therapy for this indication for which we designed our proprietary sheath device and have conducted pilot clinical trials. We expect that our principal methods of competition with other PDT products will be based upon such factors as: • the ease of administration of our method of PDT, • the degree of generalized skin sensitivity to light, • the number of required doses, • the selectivity of our drug for the target lesion or tissue of interest, and • the type and cost of our light systems. Our primary competition in the acne market includes oral and topical antibiotics, other topical prescription and over-the-counter products, as well as various laser and non-laser light treatments. The market is highly competitive and other large and small companies have more experience than we do which could make 30 Table of Contents it difficult for us to penetrate the market. The entry of new products from time to time would likely cause us to lose market share. Risks Related To Our Stock Our Common Stock May Not Continue To Trade On The Nasdaq Global Market, Which Could Reduce The Value Of Your Investment And Make Your Shares More Difficult To Sell. In order for our common stock to trade on the Nasdaq Global Market, we must continue to meet the listing standards of that market. Among other things, those standards require that our common stock maintain a minimum closing bid price of at least $1.00 per share. Recently, our common stock has traded at prices near and below $1.00. On October 16, 2008, and again on December 19, 2008, Nasdaq suspended the enforcement of rules requiring a minimum $1.00 closing bid price. The suspension will remain in effect through April 20, 2009. If we do not continue to meet Nasdaq’s applicable minimum listing standards, Nasdaq could delist us from the Nasdaq Global Market. If our common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market, we could seek to have our common stock listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market or other Nasdaq markets. However, delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq Global Market could hinder your ability to sell, or obtain an accurate quotation for the price of, your shares of our common stock. Delisting could also adversely affect the perception among investors of DUSA and its prospects, which could lead to further declines in the market price of our common stock. Delisting would also make it more difficult and expensive for us to raise capital. In addition, delisting might subject us to a Securities and Exchange Commission rule that could adversely affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell or make a market in our common stock, thus hindering your ability to sell your shares. Our Results Of Operations And General Market Conditions For Specialty Pharmaceutical And Biotechnology Stocks Could Result In Sudden Changes In The Market Value Of Our Stock. The price of our common stock has been highly volatile. These fluctuations create a greater risk of capital losses for our shareholders as compared to less volatile stocks. From January 1, 2008 to March 10, 2009, the price of our stock has ranged from a low of $0.87 to a high of $2.58. Factors that contributed to the volatility of our stock during this period included: • quarterly levels of product sales; • clinical trial results; • general market conditions; • patent litigation; • increased marketing activities or press releases; and • changes in third-party payor reimbursement for our therapy. The significant general market volatility in similar stage pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies made the market price of our common stock even more volatile. Significant Fluctuations In Orders For Our Products, On A Monthly And Quarterly Basis, Are Common Based On External Factors And Sales Promotion Activities. These Fluctuations Could Increase The Volatility Of Our Stock Price. The price of our common stock may be affected by the amount of quarterly shipments of our products to end-users. Since our PDT products are still in relatively early stages of adoption, and sales volumes are still low, a number of factors could affect product sales levels and growth rates in any period. These could include the level of penetration of new markets outside of the United States, the timing of medical conferences, sales promotion activities, and large volume purchases by our higher usage customers. In addition, seasonal fluctuations in the number of patients seeking treatment at various times during the year could impact sales volumes. These factors could, in turn, affect the volatility of our stock price. 31 Table of Contents If Outstanding Options, Warrants And Rights Are Converted, The Value Of The Shares Of Common Stock Outstanding Just Prior To The Conversion Will Be Diluted. As of March 10, 2009, there were outstanding options and warrants to purchase 4,406,000 shares of common stock, with exercise prices ranging from $1.08 to $31.00 per share, and from $2.85 to $6.00 per share, respectively. In addition, there are 91,000 shares of unvested common stock. The holders of the options and warrants have the opportunity to profit if the market price for the common stock exceeds the exercise price of their respective securities, without assuming the risk of ownership. The holders are likely to exercise their securities during a time when we would likely be able to raise capital from the public on terms more favorable than those provided in these securities. Effecting A Change Of Control Of DUSA Would Be Difficult, Which May Discourage Offers For Shares Of Our Common Stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the board of directors to issue up to 100,000,000 shares of stock, 40,000,000 of which are common stock. The board of directors has the authority to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges, including voting rights, of the remaining 60,000,000 shares without any further vote or action by the shareholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. On September 27, 2002, we adopted a shareholder rights plan at a special meeting of DUSA’s board of directors. The rights plan could discourage, delay or prevent a person or group from acquiring 15% or more of our common stock, thereby limiting, perhaps, the ability of our shareholders to benefit from such a transaction. The rights plan provides for the distribution of one right as a dividend for each outstanding share of our common stock to holders of record as of October 10, 2002. Each right entitles the registered holder to purchase one one-thousandths of a share of preferred stock at an exercise price of $37.00 per right. The rights will be exercisable subsequent to the date that a person or group either has acquired, obtained the right to acquire, or commences or discloses an intention to commence a tender offer to acquire, 15% or more of our outstanding common stock or if a person or group is declared an “Adverse Person”, as such term is defined in the rights plan. The rights may be redeemed by DUSA at a redemption price of one one-hundredth of a cent per right until ten days following the date the person or group acquires, or discloses an intention to acquire, 15% or more, as the case may be, of DUSA, or until such later date as may be determined by the our board of directors. Under the rights plan, if a person or group acquires the threshold amount of common stock, all holders of rights (other than the acquiring person or group) may, upon payment of the purchase price then in effect, purchase shares of common stock of DUSA having a value of twice the purchase price. In the event that we are involved in a merger or other similar transaction where DUSA is not the surviving corporation, all holders of rights (other than the acquiring person or group) shall be entitled, upon payment of the purchase price then in effect, to purchase common stock of the surviving corporation having a value of twice the purchase price. The rights will expire on October 10, 2012, unless previously redeemed. Our board of directors has also adopted certain amendments to DUSA’s certificate of incorporation consistent with the terms of the rights plan. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 