ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Future results of operations of Applied Energetics involve a number of known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Factors that could affect future operating results and cash flows and cause actual results to vary materially from historical results include, but are not limited to those risks set forth below: Risk Related to Our Business Our historical lack of earnings and continued future losses could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from continuing to develop and market our products. We have incurred net losses applicable to our common stockholders since our formation in June 2002. Our ability to achieve profitable operations is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to obtain sufficient government and commercial contracts, to complete the development of products based on our technologies and to control costs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to significantly increase our revenue or achieve and maintain profitability. Our lack of earnings history and continued future losses could have important consequences, such as: · increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; · restricting us from introducing new products or exploiting business opportunities; or delaying or terminating research projects; · requiring us to sell debt or equity securities or to sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; and · placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors, who may have greater financial resources. If we are unable to generate funds or obtain new funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to continue to develop and/or market our present and potential products. The cash proceeds received from our 2005 and 2006 equity financings have satisfactorily funded our operating losses, our research and development program and the launch of our new products, working capital requirements, and strategic initiatives. The development, enhancement and modification of technologies and products requires the commitment of substantial resources to conduct the time consuming research and development, field training and regulatory activities necessary to bring any potential technology or product to market and to establish production, marketing and sales capabilities. Our ability to fund our technologies and products, research and development, working capital and capital expenditures will depend on our future operating performance, which will be affected by factors discussed elsewhere in this filing and in the other reports we file with the SEC, including, without limitation, economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory, political, market and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. In the event that our operating performance and cash and cash equivalents are not sufficient to satisfy our research and development efforts and working capital, we will be required to seek to raise additional equity or debt financings in order to sustain our current level of operations. We cannot assure you that any such financing will be available on affordable terms, or at all, if needed. Additionally, current economic conditions and uncertainty of future levels of defense spending may inhibit our ability to obtain future funding from Government sources or from public capital sources consistent with our prior history. The timing and magnitude of Government funding and orders for our CIED systems or products cannot be predicted. We expect that we will be dependent upon sales of our CIED system products for a substantial portion of our revenue in the near future. We are hopeful that we will continue to receive funding to advance our technologies, however, the Government’s course of action will not be fully known until orders for product are actually issued to us. Because Government agencies have been the dominant revenue source historically and many of these agencies continue to be identified as the intended customers for our various future products, it is uncertain whether we will enter into new or continue with existing development or production contracts and, if we do, what the timing or magnitude of such orders will be. In addition, if the Government were to reduce our forces in Afghanistan or change the nature of the military’s mission in Afghanistan, the urgent need for our CIED systems would be greatly reduced. 4 The receipt of future Government funding is uncertain and may be reduced or eliminated at any time, particularly if our LIPC technology does not meet certain milestones. We rely on Government funding for LIPC and LGE development through funding provided in the federal Government budget and contracts with various Government agencies. Due to federal budgetary constraints, we cannot provide assurance that any continued Government funding will be made available, or that we will be able to enter into any agreements with Government customers for the further development of LIPC and LGE. We expect that additional funding for LIPC and LGE will be subject to our technology meeting certain Government established milestones. We have in the past missed some Government established milestones and schedule deadlines, and may do so again in the future. If our LIPC and LGE technology does not meet Government established milestones, due to our performance or outside environmental or physics constraints, additional Government funding may be reduced or eliminated. If additional Government funding for LIPC and LGE is reduced or is not forthcoming, in the absence of additional funding, our future LIPC and LGE technology development efforts could be terminated and our revenues would be adversely affected. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop and commercialize technologies and applications that address the needs of our markets. Both our defense and commercial markets are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. Accordingly, our future performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: · identify emerging technological trends in our target markets; · develop and maintain competitive products; · enhance our products by improving performance and adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors; · develop and manufacture and bring products to market quickly at cost-effective prices; · obtain commercial scale production orders from our Government and other customers; · meet scheduled timetables and enter into suitable arrangements for the development, certification and delivery of new products; · enter into suitable arrangements for volume production of mature products. We believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to develop and commercialize technologies and products, which will require the investment of financial and engineering resources. The need to make these expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures will ultimately lead to the timely development and commercialization of new technologies, products, and systems using our technologies. Due to the design complexity of our products, we may in the future experience delays in completing development and introduction on a commercial scale of new products. Any delays could result in increased costs of development, deflect resources from other projects or incur loss of contracts. In addition, there can be no assurance that the market for our technologies and products will develop or continue to expand as we currently anticipate. The failure of our technology to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenue and harm our business. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing or differing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of our products. The possibility that our competitors might develop new technology or products might cause our existing technology and products to become obsolete or create significant price competition. If we fail in our new product development and commercialization efforts or our products fail to achieve market acceptance more rapidly than our competitors, our revenue will decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively affected. We depend on Government customers for substantially all of our revenue and changes in government spending could significantly impact our sales and profitability. Approximately 97%, 97% and 87%, of our net revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, were from the U.S. Government and Government contractors. U.S. defense spending historically has been cyclical. Though it is not clear that future defense spending will be equally cyclical, defense budgets rise when perceived threats to national security increase the level of concern over the country’s safety. At other times, spending on the military can decrease. Although defense spending in the United States has increased in recent years, further increases may not continue and any proposed budget or supplemental budget request may not be approved. Competing demands for federal funds can put pressure on all areas of spending, which could impact the defense budget. 5 At the date of this report, Congress has not yet passed a baseline fiscal year 2011 defense budget, nor has it acted on the fiscal year 2012 defense budget submitted by the President. As a result, the Government is currently operating under a Continuing Resolution (“CR”) that funds programs and services at fiscal year 2010 levels. The CR is set to expire on March 18, 2011, after which Congress will either pass a new appropriations bill or extend the CR. The latter case would likely fund programs at fiscal year 2010 levels, prevent the DoD from starting new programs, and would affect the contract funding of LIPC and LGE, and potentially delay new awards. Failure by Congress to pass a dedicated 2011 defense spending bill is expected to result in significant cuts to the government’s research and development, and science and technology budgets to fund high priority projects, which could further jeopardize funding of our programs. We anticipate continued spirited debate over defense spending in 2011 as part of a larger dialog around the potential reductions in government spending. Budget decisions made in this environment could have immediate and long-term consequences for our company and the entire defense industry. A decrease in U.S. government defense spending or changes in spending allocation could result in one or more of our programs being reduced, delayed or terminated. Reductions in our existing programs, unless offset by other programs and opportunities, could adversely affect our ability to sustain and grow future sales and become profitable. A reduction in the quality of our relationship with the Government and defense agencies and/or a shift in Government funding could have severe consequences on our prospects and financial condition. Any significant disruption or deterioration of our relationship with the Government or important agencies thereof could significantly reduce our revenue. Our Government programs must compete with programs managed by other defense contractors for a limited number of programs and for uncertain levels of funding. The development of our business will depend upon the continued willingness of the U.S. Government agencies to fund existing and new defense programs and, in particular, to continue to purchase our products and services. The Department of Defense may not continue to focus its spending on technologies or missions relevant to our technologies and products. Our competitors continuously engage in efforts to expand their business relationships with the Government which may be to our disadvantage and are likely to continue these efforts in the future. The Government may choose to use other defense contractors for its limited number of defense programs. In addition, the funding of defense programs also competes with non-defense spending of the Government. Budget decisions made by the Government are outside of our control and have long-term consequences for the size and structure of Applied Energetics. A shift in Government defense spending to other programs in which we are not involved or a reduction in Government defense spending generally could have severe consequences for our results of operations. Our Government customers may terminate or modify our existing contracts, which would adversely affect our revenue. There are inherent risks in contracting with the Government, including risks peculiar to the defense industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Laws and regulations permit the Government to: · terminate contracts for its convenience; · reduce or modify contracts if its requirements or budgetary constraints change; · cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable; · shift its spending practices; · adjust contract costs and fees on the basis of audits done by its agencies. If the Government terminates our contracts for convenience, we may only recover our costs incurred or committed for settlement expenses and profit on work completed before the termination. Additionally, most of our backlog could be adversely affected by any modification or termination of contracts with the Government or contracts the prime contractors have with the Government. The Government regularly reviews our costs and performance on its contracts, as well as our accounting and general business practices. The Government may reduce the reimbursement for our fees and contract-related costs as a result of an audit. We can give no assurance that one or more of our Government contracts will not be terminated under these circumstances. Also, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new Government contracts to offset the revenue lost as a result of any termination of our contracts. As our revenue is dependent on our procurement, performance and payment under our contracts, the loss of one or more critical contracts could have a negative impact on our financial condition. 6 Our business is subject to various restrictive laws and regulations because we are a contractor and subcontractor to the Government. As a contractor and subcontractor to the Government, we are subject to various laws and regulations that are more restrictive than those applicable to non-Government contractors. We are required to obtain and maintain material Governmental authorizations and approvals to run our business as it is currently conducted. New or more stringent laws or Government regulations concerning Government contracts, if adopted and enacted, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Generally, Government contracts are subject to oversight audits by Government representatives. Responding to Governmental audits, inquiries or investigations may involve significant expense and divert management attention from regular operations. Our Government business is also subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of socio-economic and other requirements. These requirements, although customary in Government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. These costs might increase in the future, reducing our margins, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition. Failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from Government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. Among the causes for debarment are violations of various statutes, including those related to: · procurement integrity; · export control; · Government security regulations; · employment practices; · protection of the environment; · accuracy of records and the recording of costs; · foreign corruption. Any of these factors, which are largely beyond our control, could also negatively impact our financial condition. We also may experience problems associated with advanced designs required by the Government, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns. Failure to overcome these technological difficulties and the occurrence of cost overruns would have a negative impact on our results. These Government contracts may be subject to protest or challenge by unsuccessful bidders or to termination, reduction or modification in the event of changes in Government requirements, reductions in federal spending or other factors. Competition within our markets may reduce our procurement of future contracts and our revenue. The defense and commercial industries in which we operate are highly competitive. Our future competitors may range from highly resourceful small concerns, which engineer and produce specialized items, to large, diversified firms and defense contractors. Many of our potential competitors have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities and greater financial resources than we. Consequently, these competitors may be better suited to take advantage of economies of scale and devote greater resources to develop new technologies. There can be no assurance that we can continue to compete effectively with these firms. In addition, some of our suppliers and customers could develop the capability to manufacture products similar to products that we are developing. This would result in competing directly which could significantly reduce our revenue and seriously harm our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not result in reduced revenue and market share or seriously harm our business. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from a limited number of contracts. Therefore, our revenue will be adversely affected if we fail to receive new contracts and renewals or follow-on contracts. Our Government contracts are important because our contracts are typically for fixed terms which vary from shorter than one year to multi-year, particularly for contracts with options. The typical term of our contracts with the U.S. Government is between one and two years. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we derived approximately 69% of our revenues from supporting our USMC customer’s CIED requirements. The loss of revenue from our possible failure to obtain new contracts and renewals or follow-on contracts may be significant because our Government contracts account for a substantial portion of our revenue. 7 Our products may fail to perform satisfactorily in tests or field operations and even if our products perform satisfactorily, we may experience unanticipated delays in obtaining contracts, and may not obtain commercial scale production orders. Our Government customers typically test our products at various stages of development and through Operational Assessments. Our success will ultimately depend upon our products meeting performance criteria established by our customers. Failure of a product to perform satisfactorily in a field test or during operations could result in delay of product development, delay in production contracts, cost overruns, or termination of the contract, or our inability to obtain commercial scale production orders, any of which could materially affect the development and manufacturing of such product and our prospects, revenue and financial condition. We may not be able to meet the volume or production demands for our CIED system products, if we receive production orders. We intend to outsource certain manufacturing processes if our customers order a significant number of our CIED products. We are uncertain that we will be able to find sufficient outsource facilities to meet the customer’s demands for our CIED products on a timely basis or at all. We are also pursuing further teaming agreements and other formal arrangements with major defense contractors who have the facilities, resources and experience to support a sudden increase in demand for our CIED products. Failure to meet volume and production demands for any order we receive could result in the customer(s) seeking other sources for producing this product, and could limit the size of an order placed with us, or cause the customer(s) to choose not to place any orders with us. We depend on component availability, subcontractor performance and our key suppliers to manufacture and deliver our products and services. Our manufacturing operations are highly dependent upon the delivery of materials by outside suppliers in a timely manner. In addition, we depend in part upon subcontractors to assemble major components and subsystems used in our products in a timely and satisfactory manner. If these subcontractors are not willing to contract with us on competitive terms or devote adequate resources to fulfill their obligations to us, or we do not properly manage these relationships, our existing customer relationships may suffer. In addition, by undertaking these activities, we run the risks that: · the reputation and competitiveness of our products and services may deteriorate as a result of the reduction of our control over quality and delivery schedules and the consequent risk that we will experience supply interruptions and be subject to escalating costs; and · our competitiveness may be harmed by the failure of our subcontractors to develop, implement or maintain manufacturing methods appropriate for our products and customers. Moreover, because most of our contracts are with Governmental agencies, we may be limited in the third parties we can engage as component manufacturers due to security clearance requirements. We are dependent for some purposes or product on sole-source suppliers. If any of these sole-source suppliers fails to meet our needs, we may not have readily available alternatives. Our inability to fill our supply needs could jeopardize our ability to satisfactorily and timely complete our obligations under Government and other contracts. This might result in reduced revenue, termination of one or more of these contracts and damage to our reputation and relationships with our customers. We cannot be sure that materials, components, and subsystems will be available in the quantities we require, if at all. Because the manufacturing process of our products is highly complex, errors, changes or uncertainties could disrupt production. The manufacture of our products involves highly complex and precise processes, requiring production in a highly controlled environment. Inadvertent or slight changes or uncertainties in our manufacturing processes, errors or use of defective or contaminated materials could impact our ability to achieve and affect product reliability, or disrupt and/or delay production. Our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the U.S. Government. Government agencies such as the Defense Contract Audit Agency ("DCAA") routinely audit and investigate Government contractors. These agencies review a contractor's performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. The DCAA also reviews the adequacy of, and a contractor's compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor's purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the Government. In addition, our reputation would suffer serious harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. 8 Our backlog is subject to reduction and cancellation. Backlog represents products or services that our customers have committed by contract to purchase from us. Our total funded backlog as of December 31, 2010 was approximately $3.3 million. Backlog is subject to fluctuations and is not necessarily indicative of future revenue. Moreover, cancellations of purchase orders or reductions of product quantities in existing contracts could substantially and materially reduce backlog and, consequently, future revenue. Our failure to replace cancelled or reduced backlog could result in lower future revenue. We depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and failure to attract and retain such personnel could seriously harm our business. Due to the specialized nature of our businesses, our future performance is highly dependent upon the continued services of our key engineering and scientific personnel. Our prospects depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified engineering, scientific and manufacturing personnel for our operations. Competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. Our failure to compete for these personnel could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, since the majority of our business involves technologies that are classified due to national security reasons, we must hire U.S. Citizens who have the ability to obtain a security clearance. This further reduces our potential labor pool. Because many of our contracts and projects are classified for national security reasons, we may not be able to provide important information to the public. To date, a majority of our revenue has been derived from contracts which are classified by the Government for national security reasons. Therefore, we are prohibited from filing these contracts as exhibits to our SEC reports, registration statements and filings or provide more than the summary information that we provide in our reports, registration statements and other filings with the SEC and in our press releases. The specific aspects of our technologies are highly sensitive to ongoing military operations and are largely classified under specific Department of Defense guidelines and, consequently, cannot be disclosed publicly. Such absence of explanation, detail and discussion may prohibit us from providing details that an investor may find meaningful, cause many individuals and investors to question our level of disclosure and discourage potential investors from investing in our securities. Accordingly, investors may not have important information concerning our businesses and operations with which to make an informed investment decision. The U.S. Government's royalty-free right to use technology developed by us limits our intellectual property rights. We seek to protect the competitive benefits we derive from our patents, proprietary information and other intellectual property. However, we do not have the right to prohibit the U.S. Government from using certain technologies developed or acquired by us or to prohibit third party companies, including our competitors, from using those technologies in providing products and services to the U.S. Government. The U.S. Government has the right to royalty-free use of technologies that we have developed under Government contracts. We are free to commercially exploit those Government-funded technologies and may assert our intellectual property rights to seek to block other non-Government users thereof, but we cannot assure you we could successfully do so. We are subject to Government regulation which may require us to obtain additional licenses and could limit our ability to sell our products outside the United States. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. Protecting our intellectual property rights is critical to our ability to compete and succeed as a company. We hold a number of United States patents and patent applications, as well as trademark, and registrations which are necessary and contribute significantly to the preservation of our competitive position in the market. There can be no assurance that any of these patents or future patent applications and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. In some instances, we have augmented our technology base by licensing the proprietary intellectual property of others. In the future, we may not be able to obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms. We enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees, and enter into nondisclosure agreements with our suppliers and appropriate customers so as to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. These measures may not suffice to deter misappropriation or independent third party development of similar technologies. Moreover, the protection provided to our intellectual property by the laws and courts of foreign nations may not be as advantageous to us as the remedies available under United States law. 9 We may face claims of infringement of proprietary rights. There is a risk that a third party may claim our products infringe on their proprietary rights. Whether or not our products infringe on proprietary rights of third parties, infringement or invalidity claims may be asserted or prosecuted against us and we could incur significant expense in defending them. If any claims or actions are asserted against us, we may be required to modify our products or obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms, which we may be unable to do in a timely manner or at all. Our failure to do so could adversely affect our business. Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. We are also subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations that impose strict requirements for the proper management, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, restrict air and water emissions from our testing and manufacturing operations, and require maintenance of a safe workplace. These laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. We incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. In addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our growth is subject to a number of economic risks. Our business can be adversely affected by decreases in the general level of economic activity, such as decreases in defense spending, financial strength of customers and government procurement. We are unable to predict the duration and severity of disruptions in financial markets and the adverse economic conditions that might occur and the effect such events might have on our business. The unpredictability of our results may harm the trading price of our securities, or contribute to volatility. Our operating results may vary significantly over time for a variety of reasons, many of which are outside of our control, and any of which may harm our business. The value of our securities may fluctuate as a result of considerations that are difficult to forecast, such as: · the size and timing of contract receipt and funding; changes in Government policies and Government budgetary policies; · termination or expiration of a key Government contract; · our ability and the ability of our key suppliers to respond to changes in customer orders; · timing of our new product introductions and the new product introductions of our competitors; · adoption of new technologies and industry standards; · competitive factors, including pricing, availability and demand for competing products, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; · conditions in the capital markets and the availability of project financing; · the ability to hire and retain key scientists and executives and/or appropriately trained and experienced staff; · regulatory developments; · general economic conditions; · changes in the mix of our products; · cost and availability of components and subsystems; · price erosion. 10 If we fail to maintain compliance with applicable NASDAQ Rules and our stock is de-listed from the NASDAQ Stock Market, it may become subject to Penny Stock Regulations and there will be less interest for our stock in the market. On December 14, 2010, we received notice that we were not in compliance with Marketplace Rule 5450(a)(2), which requires a minimum $1.00 closing bid price for common stock. The company’s common stock closing bid had dropped below, and remained below this required threshold. As of the date of this report, our common stock bid price remains below $1.00. If the closing bid price of our common stock does not meet or exceed $1.00 per share for at least ten consecutive business days, we may be de-listed from the NASDAQ stock market in the future. Any such delisting could adversely affect the liquidity or market pricing of our stock. If our stock is not listed on NASDAQ and fails to maintain a price of $5.00 or more per share, our stock would become subject to the Securities and Exchange Commission's "Penny Stock" rules. These rules require a broker to deliver, prior to any transaction involving a Penny Stock, a disclosure schedule explaining the Penny Stock Market and its risks. Additionally, broker/dealers who recommend Penny Stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must make a special written suitability determination and receive the purchaser's written agreement to a transaction prior to the sale. If our common stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed and security holders may find it more difficult to sell their securities. A large number of shares of our common stock could be sold in the market in the near future, which could depress our stock price. As of March 10, 2011, we had outstanding approximately 91 million shares of common stock. A substantial portion of our shares are currently freely trading without restriction under the Securities Act of 1933, having been held by their holders for over one year and are eligible for sale under Rule 144(k) of the Securities Act. Our outstanding Series A Preferred Stock is convertible into an aggregate of 223,276 shares of common stock. There are also currently outstanding restricted stock, restricted stock units, options and warrants to purchase approximately 5.2 million shares of our common stock. To the extent any of our options or warrants are exercised or the shares of Series A Preferred Stock are converted, the percentage ownership of holders of our common stock will be diluted and our stock price could be further adversely affected. The shares of common stock underlying the Series A Preferred Stock and outstanding restricted stock, restricted stock units, options and warrants have been registered for resale by the holders thereof or are eligible for sale under Rule 144. As the underlying shares are sold, the market price could drop significantly if the holders of these restricted shares sell them or if the market perceives that the holders intend to sell these shares. Provisions of our corporate charter documents could delay or prevent change of control. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of "blank check" preferred stock without stockholder approval, in one or more series and to fix the dividend rights, terms, conversion rights, voting rights, redemption rights and terms, liquidation preferences, and any other rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions applicable to each new series of preferred stock. In addition, our Certificate of Incorporation divides our board of directors into three classes, serving staggered three-year terms. At least two annual meetings, instead of one, will be required to effect a change in a majority of our board of directors. The designation of preferred stock in the future, the classification of our Board of Directors, its three classes and the rights agreement could make it difficult for third parties to gain control of our company, prevent or substantially delay a change in control, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We use estimates in accounting for many of our programs and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results. Contract accounting requires judgments relating to assessing risks, including risks associated with customer directed delays and reductions in scheduled deliveries, unfavorable resolutions of claims and contractual matters, judgments associated with estimating contract revenues and costs, and assumptions for schedule and technical issues. The estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. Because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition, including requiring us to take write downs or charges in certain periods, and could result in fluctuations in our operating results. 11 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 