ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Future results of operations of Applied Energetics involve a number of known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Factors that could affect future operating results and cash flows and cause actual results to vary materially from historical results include, but are not limited to those risks set forth below: Risk Related to Our Business Our historical lack of earnings and continued future losses could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from continuing to develop and market our products. We do not have any funded Government contracts. Because Government agencies have been the dominant revenue source historically and many of these agencies continue to be identified as the intended customers for our various future products, it is uncertain whether we will enter into new or continue with existing development or production contracts and, if we do, what the timing or magnitude of such orders will be. In addition, the reduction in US forces in Afghanistan has really reduced the urgent need for our counter-IED system. 4 Our lack of earnings history and continued future losses could have important consequences, such as: ·increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; ·limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; ·restricting us from introducing new products or exploiting business opportunities; or delaying or terminating research projects; ·requiring us to sell debt or equity securities or to sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms; ·limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; and ·placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors, who may have greater financial resources. We are exploring strategic alternatives which may change the nature of our business. Because of the lack of government funding we are receiving, we have significantly reduced our work force and are seeking strategic alternatives. As a result, we may acquire one or more businesses or technologies which may or may not be related to our existing businesses and may dispose of one or more existing businesses. Our independent auditors have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, which may hinder our ability to obtain future financing. In their report accompanying our financial statements, our independent auditors stated that our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012 were prepared assuming that we would continue as a going concern, and that they have substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our auditors have noted that our recurring losses from operations and negative cash flow from operations and the concern that we may incur additional losses due to the reduction in Government contract activity raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We do not intend to invest our own funds to further develop and enhance LGE, LIPC, or counter-IED technologies and systems and do not anticipate receiving Government funding in the near terms. The cash proceeds received from our 2005 and 2006 equity financings have satisfactorily funded our operating losses, our research and development program and the launch of our new products, working capital requirements, and strategic initiatives. However we have limited financial resources. The development, enhancement and modification of technologies and products requires the commitment of substantial resources to conduct the time consuming research and development, field training and regulatory activities necessary to bring any potential technology or product to market and to establish production, marketing and sales capabilities. We do not expect to invest our own funds to further develop and advance those technologies and systems. Current economic conditions and uncertainty of future levels of defense spending has inhibited and will continue to inhibit our ability to obtain future funding from Government sources or from public capital sources consistent with our prior history. We do not expect that it is likely that we will receive additional Government funding for our LGE, LIPC, or counter-IED technologies and subsystems in the near term. As a result our revenues can be expected further decline and losses will continue for the foreseeable future. The timing and magnitude of Government funding and orders for our technologies and systems cannot be predicted. We do not have any funded Government contracts. Because Government agencies have been the dominant revenue source historically and many of these agencies continue to be identified as the intended customers for our various future products, it is uncertain whether we will enter into new or continue with existing development or production contracts and, if we do, what the timing or magnitude of such orders will be. In addition, the reduction in US forces in Afghanistan has really reduced the urgent need for our counter-IED system. 5 The receipt of future Government funding is uncertain and may be reduced or eliminated at any time, particularly if our LIPC technology does not meet certain milestones. Due to federal budgetary constraints, we cannot provide assurance that any continued Government funding will be made available, or that we will be able to enter into any agreements with Government customers for the further development of LIPC, LGE and counter-IED technologies and systems. If additional Government funding for LIPC, LGE and counter-IED is reduced or is not forthcoming, in the absence of additional funding, our future technology development efforts would be terminated and our revenues would be adversely affected. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop and commercialize technologies and applications that address the needs of our markets. Both our defense and commercial markets are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. Accordingly, our future performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: ·identify emerging technological trends in our target markets; ·develop and maintain competitive products; ·enhance our products by improving performance and adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors; ·develop and manufacture and bring products to market quickly at cost-effective prices; ·obtain commercial scale production orders from our Government and other customers; ·meet scheduled timetables and enter into suitable arrangements for the development, certification and delivery of new products; and ·enter into suitable arrangements for volume production of mature products. We believe that, in order to be competitive in the future, we will need to continue to develop and commercialize technologies and products, which will require the investment of financial and engineering resources. However, we do not intend to invest our funds in the further development. Due to the design complexity of our products, we may in the future experience delays in completing development and introduction on a commercial scale of new products. Any delays could result in increased costs of development, deflect resources from other projects or incur loss of contracts. In addition, there can be no assurance that the market for our technologies and products will develop or continue to expand as we currently anticipate. The failure of our technology to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenue and harm our business. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing or differing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of our products. The possibility that our competitors might develop new technology or products might cause our existing technology and products to become obsolete or create significant price competition. If we fail in our new product development and commercialization efforts or our products fail to achieve market acceptance more rapidly than our competitors, our revenue will decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively affected. The long sales cycles for our products may cause us to incur significant expense without offsetting revenues. Our potential customers are likely to view the purchase of our products as a significant and strategic decision. As a result, we expect them to expend significant effort in evaluation, testing and qualifying our products before making a decision to purchase them, resulting in a lengthy initial sales cycle. While our customers are evaluating our products and before they place an order with us, we may incur substantial sales and marketing and research and development expenses to customize our products to the customers’ needs. We may also expend significant management efforts, increase manufacturing capacity and order long lead-time components or materials prior to receiving an order. Even after this evaluation, a potential customer may not purchase our products. As a result, these long sales cycles may cause us to incur significant expenses without ever receiving revenue to offset such expense. Our commercial laser systems are complex in design and may contain defects that are not detected until installed and operated by our customers, which could increase our costs and reduce our revenues. Laser systems are inherently complex in design and require ongoing regular maintenance. The manufacture of our lasers involves a highly complex and precise process. As a result of the technological complexity of our products, changes in our or our suppliers’ manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective materials by us or our suppliers could result in a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields and product reliability. To the extent that we do not achieve and maintain our projected yields or product reliability, our business operating results, financial condition and customer relationships would be adversely affected. 6 Our customers may discover defects in our products after the products have been fully installed and operated under the end user’s peak stress conditions. In addition, some of our products are combined with products from other vendors, which may contain defects. As a result, should problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. If we are unable to identify and fix defects or other problems, we could experience, among other things: ·loss of customers; ·increased costs of product returns and warranty expenses; ·damage to our brand reputation; ·failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; ·diversion of development and engineering resources; and ·legal actions, including for personal injury and property damage, by our customers and/or their end users. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing factors could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The commercial markets for our laser products are unpredictable and characterized by rapid technological changes and evolving standards demanding a significant investment in research and development, and, if we fail to address changing market conditions, our business and operating results will be harmed. The photonics industry is characterized by extensive research and development, rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. Because this industry is subject to rapid change, it is difficult to predict its potential size or future growth rate. Our success in generating revenues in this industry will depend on, among other things: ·building our relationships with our customers; ·the education of potential end-user customers about the benefits of lasers and laser systems; and ·our ability to accurately predict, and develop our products to meet, industry standards. We cannot assure you that our expenditures for research and development will result in the introduction of new products or, if such products are introduced, that those products will achieve sufficient market acceptance or to generate sales to offset the costs of development. Our failure to address rapid technological changes in our markets could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We continuously evaluate the commercial viability of each of our technologies and, if we determine that the commercial viability of a technology is not justified by the investment needed to generate meaningful revenues, we may determine to discontinue such efforts. We depend on Government customers for substantially all of our revenue and changes in government spending could significantly impact our sales and profitability. Approximately 90% of our revenue for both years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 were from the U.S. Government and Government contractors. The current trend for the U.S. defense spending is decreasing, and is expected to be in a downward trend for the foreseeable future. We do not expect to receive Government funding for our LGE, LIPC, and counter-IED systems in the near term and expect our revenues to further decline and losses to continue for the foreseeable future. A reduction in the quality of our relationship with the Government and defense agencies and/or a shift in Government funding could have severe consequences on our prospects and financial condition. Any significant disruption or deterioration of our relationship with the Government or important agencies thereof could significantly reduce our revenue. Our Government programs must compete with programs managed by other defense contractors for a limited number of programs and for uncertain levels of funding. The development of our business will depend upon the continued willingness of the U.S. Government agencies to fund existing and new defense programs and, in particular, to continue to purchase our products and services. The Department of Defense may not focus its spending on technologies or missions relevant to our technologies and products. 7 Our competitors continuously engage in efforts to expand their business relationships with the Government which may be to our disadvantage and are likely to continue these efforts in the future. The Government may choose to use other defense contractors for its limited number of defense programs. In addition, the funding of defense programs also competes with non-defense spending of the Government. Budget decisions made by the Government are outside of our control and have long-term consequences for the size and structure of Applied Energetics. The shift in Government defense spending to other programs in which we are not involved and a reduction in Government defense spending generally has had and will continue to have severe consequences for our results of operations. Government customers may terminate or modify our existing contracts, which would adversely affect our revenue. There are inherent risks in contracting with the Government, including risks peculiar to the defense industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Laws and regulations permit the Government to: ·terminate contracts for its convenience; ·reduce or modify contracts if its requirements or budgetary constraints change; ·cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable; ·shift its spending practices; and ·adjust contract costs and fees on the basis of audits done by its agencies. If the Government terminates our contracts for convenience, we may only recover our costs incurred or committed for settlement expenses and profit on work completed before the termination. The Government regularly reviews our costs and performance on its contracts, as well as our accounting and general business practices. The Government may reduce the reimbursement for our fees and contract-related costs as a result of an audit. Also, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new Government contracts to offset the revenue lost as a result of any termination of our contracts. As our revenue is dependent on our procurement, performance and payment under our contracts, the loss of one or more critical contracts could have a negative impact on our financial condition. Our business is subject to various restrictive laws and regulations because we are a contractor and subcontractor to the Government. As a contractor and subcontractor to the Government, we are subject to various laws and regulations that are more restrictive than those applicable to non-Government contractors. We are required to obtain and maintain material Governmental authorizations and approvals to run our business as it is currently conducted. New or more stringent laws or Government regulations concerning Government contracts, if adopted and enacted, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Generally, Government contracts are subject to oversight audits by Government representatives. Responding to Governmental audits, inquiries or investigations may involve significant expense and divert management attention from regular operations. Our Government business is also subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of socio-economic and other requirements. These requirements, although customary in Government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. These costs might increase in the future, reducing our margins, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition. Failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from Government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. Among the causes for debarment are violations of various statutes, including those related to: ·procurement integrity; ·export control; ·Government security regulations; ·employment practices; ·protection of the environment; ·accuracy of records and the recording of costs; and ·foreign corruption. Any of these factors, which are largely beyond our control, could also negatively impact our financial condition. We also may experience problems associated with advanced designs required by the Government, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns. Failure to overcome these technological difficulties and the occurrence of cost overruns would have a negative impact on our results. 8 Government contracts may be subject to protest or challenge by unsuccessful bidders or to termination, reduction or modification in the event of changes in Government requirements, reductions in federal spending or other factors. Competition within our markets may reduce our procurement of future contracts and our revenue. The defense and commercial industries in which we operate are highly competitive. Our competitors range from highly resourceful small concerns, which engineer and produce specialized items, to large, diversified firms and defense contractors. Many of our potential competitors have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities and greater financial resources than we do. Consequently, these competitors may be better suited to take advantage of economies of scale and devote greater resources to develop new technologies. There can be no assurance that we can continue to compete effectively with these firms. In addition, some of our suppliers and customers could develop the capability to manufacture products similar to products that we are developing. This would result in competing directly which could significantly reduce our revenue and seriously harm our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not result in reduced revenue and market share or seriously harm our business. We have historically derived a substantial portion of our revenue from a limited number of contracts. Therefore, our revenue will continue to be adversely affected if we fail to receive new contracts and renewals or follow-on contracts. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we derived approximately 43% of our revenues from our U.S. Air Force contract to develop a compact, high power, pulse generator to be used as a High Power Microwave (HPM) power supply. Additionally, 90% of our revenue was derived from only six Government contracts. The loss of Government funding has adversely affected our revenue and, as a result, we anticipate revenue may continue to decline and losses to continue for at least the foreseeable future. Our products may fail to perform satisfactorily in tests or field operations and even if our products perform satisfactorily, we may experience unanticipated delays in obtaining contracts, and may not obtain commercial scale production orders. Our Government customers typically test our products at various stages of development and through operational assessments. Our success will ultimately depend upon our products meeting performance criteria established by our customers. Failure of a product to perform satisfactorily in a field test or during operations could result in delay of product development, delay in production contracts, cost overruns, or termination of the contract, or our inability to obtain commercial scale production orders, any of which could materially affect the development and manufacturing of such product and our prospects, revenue and financial condition. We depend on component availability, subcontractor performance and our key suppliers to manufacture and deliver our products and services. Our manufacturing operations are highly dependent upon the delivery of materials by outside suppliers in a timely manner. In addition, we depend in part upon subcontractors to assemble major components and subsystems used in our products in a timely and satisfactory manner. If these subcontractors are not willing to contract with us on competitive terms or devote adequate resources to fulfill their obligations to us, or we do not properly manage these relationships, our existing customer relationships may suffer. In addition, by undertaking these activities, we run the risks that: ·the reputation and competitiveness of our products and services may deteriorate as a result of the reduction of our control over quality and delivery schedules and the consequent risk that we will experience supply interruptions and be subject to escalating costs; and ·our competitiveness may be harmed by the failure of our subcontractors to develop, implement or maintain manufacturing methods appropriate for our products and customers. Moreover, because most of our contracts are with Governmental agencies, we may be limited in the third parties we can engage as component manufacturers due to security clearance requirements. We are dependent for some purposes or product on sole-source suppliers. If any of these sole-source suppliers fails to meet our needs, we may not have readily available alternatives. Our inability to fill our supply needs could jeopardize our ability to satisfactorily and timely complete our obligations under Government and other contracts. This might result in reduced revenue, termination of one or more of these contracts and damage to our reputation and relationships with our customers. We cannot be sure that materials, components, and subsystems will be available in the quantities we require, if at all. 9 Because the manufacturing process of our products is highly complex, errors, changes or uncertainties could disrupt production. The manufacture of our products involves highly complex and precise processes, requiring production in a highly controlled environment. Inadvertent or slight changes or uncertainties in our manufacturing processes, errors or use of defective or contaminated materials could impact our ability to achieve and affect product reliability, or disrupt and/or delay production. Our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the U.S. Government. Government agencies such as the Defense Contract Audit Agency ("DCAA") routinely audit and investigate Government contractors. These agencies review a contractor's performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. The DCAA also reviews the adequacy of, and a contractor's compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor's purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the Government. In addition, our reputation would suffer serious harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. We depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and failure to attract and retain such personnel could seriously harm our business. Due to the specialized nature of our businesses, our future performance is highly dependent upon the continued services of our key engineering and scientific personnel. To the extent we obtain Government contracts or significant commercial contract our prospects depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified engineering, scientific and manufacturing personnel for our operations. Competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. Our failure to compete for these personnel could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, since the majority of our business has historically involved technologies that are classified due to national security reasons, we must hire U.S. Citizens who have the ability to obtain a security clearance. This further reduces our potential labor pool. Because many of our contracts and projects to date were classified for national security reasons, we may not be able to provide important information to the public. To date, a majority of our revenue has been derived from contracts which are classified by the Government for national security reasons. Therefore, we are prohibited from filing these contracts as exhibits to our SEC reports, registration statements and filings or provide more than the summary information that we provide in our reports, registration statements and other filings with the SEC and in our press releases. The specific aspects of our technologies are highly sensitive to ongoing military operations and are largely classified under specific Department of Defense guidelines and, consequently, cannot be disclosed publicly. Such absence of explanation, detail and discussion may prohibit us from providing details that an investor may find meaningful, cause many individuals and investors to question our level of disclosure and discourage potential investors from investing in our securities. Accordingly, investors may not have important information concerning our businesses and operations with which to make an informed investment decision. The U.S. Government's royalty-free right to use technology developed by us limits our intellectual property rights. We seek to protect the competitive benefits we derive from our patents, proprietary information and other intellectual property. However, we do not have the right to prohibit the U.S. Government from using certain technologies developed or acquired by us or to prohibit third party companies, including our competitors, from using those technologies in providing products and services to the U.S. Government. The U.S. Government has the right to royalty-free use of technologies that we have developed under Government contracts. We are free to commercially exploit those Government-funded technologies and may assert our intellectual property rights to seek to block other non-Government users thereof, but we cannot assure you we could successfully do so. We are subject to Government regulation which may require us to obtain additional licenses and could limit our ability to sell our products outside the United States. 10 We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. Protecting our intellectual property rights is critical to our ability to compete and succeed as a company. We hold a number of United States patents and patent applications, as well as trademark, and registrations which are necessary and contribute significantly to the preservation of our competitive position in the market. There can be no assurance that any of these patents or future patent applications and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. In some instances, we have augmented our technology base by licensing the proprietary intellectual property of others. In the future, we may not be able to obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms. We enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees, and enter into nondisclosure agreements with our suppliers and appropriate customers so as to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. These measures may not suffice to deter misappropriation or independent third party development of similar technologies. Moreover, the protection provided to our intellectual property by the laws and courts of foreign nations may not be as advantageous to us as the remedies available under United States law. We may face claims of infringement of proprietary rights. There is a risk that a third party may claim our products infringe on their proprietary rights. Whether or not our products infringe on proprietary rights of third parties, infringement or invalidity claims may be asserted or prosecuted against us and we could incur significant expense in defending them. If any claims or actions are asserted against us, we may be required to modify our products or obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms, which we may be unable to do in a timely manner or at all. Our failure to do so could adversely affect our business. Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. We are also subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations that impose strict requirements for the proper management, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, restrict air and water emissions from our testing and manufacturing operations, and require maintenance of a safe workplace. These laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. We incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. In addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our growth is subject to a number of economic risks. Our business has been adversely affected by decreases in the general level of economic activity, such as decreases in defense spending, financial strength of customers and government procurement. We are unable to predict the duration and severity of disruptions in financial markets and the adverse economic conditions and continuation in Government fiscal tightening that might occur and the effect such events might have on our business The unpredictability of our results may harm the trading price of our securities, or contribute to volatility. Our operating results may vary significantly over time for a variety of reasons, many of which are outside of our control, and any of which may harm our business. The value of our securities may fluctuate as a result of considerations that are difficult to forecast, such as: ·the size and timing of contract receipt and funding; ·changes in Government policies and Government budgetary policies; ·termination or expiration of a key Government contract; ·our ability and the ability of our key suppliers to respond to changes in customer orders; ·timing of our new product introductions and the new product introductions of our competitors; ·adoption of new technologies and industry standards; ·competitive factors, including pricing, availability and demand for competing products, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; 11 ·conditions in the capital markets and the availability of project financing; ·the ability to hire and retain key scientists and executives and/or appropriately trained and experienced staff; ·regulatory developments; ·general economic conditions; ·changes in the mix of our products; ·cost and availability of components and subsystems; and ·price erosion. We are subject to the penny stock rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission that require brokers to provide extensive disclosure to their customers prior to executing trades in penny stocks. These disclosure requirements may cause a reduction in the trading activity of our common stock, which in all likelihood would make it difficult for our stockholders to sell their securities. Rule 3a51-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 establishes the definition of a “penny stock,” for purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a minimum bid price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to a limited number of exceptions which are not available to us. This classification would severely and adversely affect any market liquidity for our common stock. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the penny stock rules require that a broker or dealer approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks and the broker or dealer receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must obtain financial information and investment experience and objectives of the person and make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and that that person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form, sets forth: ·The basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and ·That the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and commission payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Because of these regulations, broker-dealers may not wish to engage in the above-referenced necessary paperwork and disclosures and/or may encounter difficulties in their attempt to sell shares of our common stock, which may affect the ability of selling stockholders or other holders to sell their shares in any secondary market and have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in any secondary market. These additional sales practice and disclosure requirements could impede the sale of our common stock, if and when our common stock becomes publicly traded. In addition, the liquidity for our common stock may decrease, with a corresponding decrease in the price of our common stock. Our common stock, in all probability, will be subject to such penny stock rules for the foreseeable future and our stockholders will, in all likelihood, find it difficult to sell their shares of common stock. A large number of shares of our common stock could be sold in the market in the near future, which could depress our stock price. As of March 18, 2013, we had outstanding approximately 92 million shares of common stock. A substantial portion of our shares are currently freely trading without restriction under the Securities Act of 1933, having been held by their holders for over one year and are eligible for sale under Rule 144(k) of the Securities Act 12 Provisions of our corporate charter documents could delay or prevent change of control. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of "blank check" preferred stock without stockholder approval, in one or more series and to fix the dividend rights, terms, conversion rights, voting rights, redemption rights and terms, liquidation preferences, and any other rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions applicable to each new series of preferred stock. In addition, our Certificate of Incorporation divides our board of directors into three classes, serving staggered three-year terms. At least two annual meetings, instead of one, will be required to effect a change in a majority of our board of directors. The designation of preferred stock in the future, the classification of our Board of Directors, its three classes and the rights agreement could make it difficult for third parties to gain control of our company, prevent or substantially delay a change in control, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Moreover, the holders of our outstanding Series A Preferred Stock have a right to put their shares to the Company for $2.7 million in the event of a change of control. Such right could hinder our ability to sell our assets or merge with another company. The redemption and dividend provisions of our outstanding preferred stock are onerous due to our current financial condition. As of December 31, 2012, the liquidation preference of our outstanding preferred stock was approximately $2.7 million which represents approximately 92% of our total assets. If an event occurs that would require us to redeem the preferred stock, we may not have the required cash to do so. In addition, our annual dividend payment on the preferred stock is approximately $174,000, which will further deplete our cash or significantly dilute our common stockholders of we pay the dividend in shares of common stock. We use estimates in accounting for many of our programs and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results. Contract accounting requires judgments relating to assessing risks, including risks associated with customer directed delays and reductions in scheduled deliveries, unfavorable resolutions of claims and contractual matters, judgments associated with estimating contract revenues and costs, and assumptions for schedule and technical issues. The estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. Because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition, including requiring us to take write downs or charges in certain periods, and could result in fluctuations in our operating results. The commercial products and systems that we sell are considered capital equipment and the company’s financial condition may preclude future sales due to perceived risk for service and warranties. Both our commercial laser systems and compact high voltage equipment are expected to be major capital equipment purchases for industrial manufacturing. Companies evaluate these systems based upon a number of factors and criteria which include the ability of suppliers to provide long-term warranty, maintenance, technical and parts support. The company’s present financial condition may be viewed as an impediment to providing long-term customer service for these major capital equipment purchases. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 