Risk Factors — Risks Related to DUSA”. We can provide no assurance that a third-party or parties will not claim, with or without merit, that we have infringed or misappropriated their proprietary rights. A number of entities have obtained, and are attempting to obtain patent protection for various uses of ALA. We can provide no assurance as to whether any issued patents, or patents that may later issue to third-parties, may affect the uses on which we are working or whether such patents can be avoided, invalidated or licensed if they cannot be avoided or invalidated. If any third-party were to assert a claim for infringement, as one party has already done, we can provide no assurance that we would be successful in the litigation or that such litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Furthermore, we may not be able to afford the expense of defending against any such additional claim. In addition, we cannot guarantee that our patents, whether owned or licensed, or any future patents that may issue, will prevent other companies from developing similar or functionally equivalent products. Further, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to develop our own patentable technologies or that our products or methods will not infringe upon the patents of third-parties. In addition, we cannot guarantee that any of the patents that may be issued to us will effectively protect our technology or provide a competitive advantage for our products or will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented in the future. We also attempt to protect our proprietary information as trade secrets. Generally, agreements with employees, licensing partners, consultants, universities, pharmaceutical companies and agents contain provisions designed to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information. However, we can provide no assurance that these agreements will provide effective protection for our proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. Furthermore, we can provide no assurance that our competitors will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or otherwise gain access to our proprietary information, or that we can meaningfully protect our rights in unpatentable proprietary information. Even in the absence of composition of matter patent protection for ALA, we may receive financial benefits from: (i) patents relating to the use of such products (like PARTEQ’s patents); (ii) patents relating to special compositions and formulations (like the Nicomide and AVAR patents); (iii) limited marketing exclusivity that may be available under the Hatch-Waxman Act and any counterpart protection available in foreign countries and (iv) patent term extension under the Hatch-Waxman Act. See section entitled “Business – Government Regulation”. Effective patent protection also depends on many other factors such as the nature of the market and the position of the product in it, the growth of the market, the complexities and economics of the process for manufacture of the active ingredient of the product and the requirements of the new drug provisions of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or similar laws and regulations in other countries. We seek registration of trademarks in the United States, and other countries where we may market our products. To date, we have been issued more than 50 trademark registrations, and other applications are pending. Manufacturing We manufacture our Levulan® Kerastick® at our Wilmington, Massachusetts facility and we maintain a reasonable level of Kerastick® inventory based on our internal sales projections. During the third quarter of 2005, we received FDA approval to manufacture our BLU-U® brand light source in our Wilmington, Massachusetts facility. However, at this time, we expect to utilize our own facility only as a back-up to our current third-party manufacturer or for repairs. Our drug, Levulan®, and the BLU-U® brand light source are each manufactured by single third-party suppliers. In connection with our merger with Sirius, we assumed a number of key agreements relating to the supply of our non-PDT current products, and relating to the development of certain product candidates. We intend to continue to use third-party manufacturers for these products. See section entitled “Business-Supply Partners”. 18 Table of Contents Distribution We have been a direct distributor of the BLU-U® since its launch. Effective January 1, 2006, we have increased our own distribution capacity and have become the sole distributor for our Levulan® Kerastick® in the United States. In March 2004, we signed an exclusive Canadian marketing and distribution agreement for the Levulan® Kerastick® and BLU-U® with Coherent-AMT Inc., or Coherent, a leading Canadian medical device and laser distribution company. Coherent began marketing the BLU-U® in April 2004 and the Kerastick® in June 2004, following receipt of the applicable regulatory approval from Health Canada. The agreement has a three-year term, which can be automatically renewed for additional one-year terms, unless either party notifies the other party prior to a term expiration that it does not intend to renew the agreement. Coherent has the right for a period of time following termination of its agreement to return inventory of product. On January 12, 2006, we entered into an exclusive marketing, distribution and supply agreement with Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. The agreement covers current and future uses of our Levulan® Kerastick® PDT in dermatology. The agreement, which has an initial term of ten years, grants Stiefel the right to market and distribute our product in Mexico, Central and South America. The Mexican and Brazilian health regulatory authorities have granted their respective approvals to market the product, however, the launch of the product in Brazil is dependent upon receipt of acceptable final pricing approval from Brazilian government regulators at CMED. We expect that the launches in both countries will occur pending resolution of the final pricing by CMED in Brazil. All regulatory filings and registrations for approval will be owned by DUSA, unless otherwise agreed by DUSA. Stiefel will make up to $3,000,000 in milestone payments, based upon receipt of acceptable final pricing approval of the product from Brazilian regulatory authorities and achievement of certain minimum purchase levels in the territory, subject to certain terms and conditions. We will manufacture the Kerastick® for Stiefel in our manufacturing facility in Wilmington, Massachusetts. Stiefel will pay to DUSA a percentage of Stiefel’s final selling price to third-parties subject to a certain minimum purchase price per unit and to other terms and conditions. Stiefel has certain minimum purchase obligations. The parties have certain rights to terminate the Agreement prior to the end of the initial term, and Stiefel has an option to extend the term for an additional ten years on mutually agreeable terms and conditions. On January 4, 2007, we entered into an exclusive marketing, distribution and supply agreement with Daewoong Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., or Daewoong, and Daewoong’s wholly owned subsidiary, DNC Daewoong Derma & Plastic Surgery Network Company, or DNC, and collectively with Daewoong referred to as D&D, covering current and future uses of the Levulan® Kerastick® for PDT in dermatology. The agreement grants D&D exclusive rights to distribute, promote and sell the Levulan® Kerastick® in Korea, Taiwan, China, including without limitation Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam. We will manufacture and supply the product to D&D on certain terms and conditions. The agreement has an initial term of ten years (subject to earlier termination and extension provisions). D&D will complete final integration and submission on our behalf of all registrations and regulatory filings for the product in the territory. Under the terms of the agreement, D&D will make up to $3,500,000 in milestone payments to us, based upon contract execution, certain regulatory approval of the product from regulatory authorities, and achievement of pre-determined cumulative sales targets in the territory subject to certain terms and conditions. In order to maintain its exclusive rights, D&D is obligated to purchase a certain number of units of the product and meet certain regulatory timelines. We will manufacture the product in our manufacturing facility in Wilmington, Massachusetts. We will also receive a minimum transfer price per unit plus a percentage of D&D’s end-user price above a certain level. The Non-PDT products are distributed through several major wholesalers in the United States pursuant to customary industry arrangements. 19 Table of Contents Marketing and Sales DUSA markets its products in the United States. We have appointed Coherent-AMT as our marketing partner for our products in Canada, Stiefel for our Levulan® Kerastick® in Mexico, Central and South America and Daewoong for our Levulan® Kerastick® in several Asian countries. As a result of reacquiring our product rights in late 2002 from a former marketing partner, we commenced marketing and sales activities for our products in 2003, including the launch of our sales force in October 2003. Initially the sales force was comprised of six direct representatives, various independent representatives, and an independent sales distributor, designed to focus on most of our key geographic markets in the United States. During 2006, we continued our efforts to penetrate the market by expanding our sales coverage in key geographic locations. As of December 31, 2006, with the addition of sales personnel from our Sirius merger, we have further increased the size of our sales force to 37 sales representatives deployed nationally. Following the receipt of marketing approval from the Health Protection Branch — Canada in June 2004, we started to market and sell the Levulan® Kerastick® with PDT using the BLU-U® for AKs of the face or scalp in Canada through Coherent-AMT. We anticipate that Stiefel will launch the Levulan® Kerastick® promptly after receipt of acceptable final pricing approval from the Brazilian regulators. See section entitled “Business - Distribution”. Certain of the products acquired in connection with the Sirius merger must meet certain minimum manufacturing and labeling standards established by the FDA and applicable to products marketed without approved marketing applications including Nicomide®. FDA regulates such products under its marketed unapproved drugs compliance policy guide entitled, “Marketed New Drugs without Approved NDAs or ANDAs.” Under this policy, FDA recognizes that certain unapproved products, based on the introduction date of their active ingredients and the lack of safety concerns, have been marketed for many years and, at this time, will not be the subject of any enforcement action. The FDA has recently taken a more proactive role and is strongly encouraging manufacturers of such products to submit applications to obtain marketing approval and we have begun discussions with FDA to begin that process. FDA’s enforcement discretion policy does not apply to drugs or firms that may be in violation of regulatory requirements other than preapproval submission requirements and FDA may bring an action against a drug or a firm when FDA concludes that such other violations exist. The contract manufacturer of Nicomide® has received a request from the FDA for labeling information and justification for the belief that the product is exempt from drug approval requirements, has received a warning letter to cease manufacturing a different marketed unapproved drug, and has been cited for GMP violations. We believe that the GMP issues do not directly involve our products. There can be no assurance that the FDA will continue this policy or not take a contrary position with any individual products. If the FDA were to do so, we may be required to make certain labeling changes and market these products as over-the-counter products or as dietary supplements under applicable legislation, or withdraw such products from the market, unless and until we submit a marketing application and obtain FDA marketing approval. Any such action by the FDA could have a material impact on our Non-PDT Drug Product revenues, particularly if the action were taken with respect to Nicomide®. Competition The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive, and many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. In addition, several of these companies have significantly greater experience than we do in developing products, conducting preclinical and clinical testing and obtaining regulatory approvals to market products for health care. Our competitors may succeed in developing products that are safer or more effective than ours and in obtaining regulatory marketing approval of future products before we do. Our competitiveness may also be affected by our ability to manufacture and market our products and by the level of reimbursement for the cost of our drug and treatment by third-party payors, such as insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and government agencies. 20 Table of Contents Commercial development of PDT agents other than Levulan® is being pursued by a number of companies. These include: QLT Inc. (Canada); Axcan Pharma Inc. (United States); Miravant, Inc. (United States); Pharmacyclics, Inc. (United States); PhotoTherapeutics, Inc. (U.K.); medac GmbH and photonamic GmbH & Co. KG (Germany); and PhotoCure ASA (Norway) who entered into a marketing agreement with Galderma S.A. for countries outside of Nordic countries for certain dermatology indications. Several of these companies are also commercializing and/or conducting research with ALA or ALA-related compounds. PhotoCure has received marketing approval of its ALA precursor (ALA methyl-ester) compound for PDT treatment of AK and basal cell carcinoma, called BCC, in the European Union, New Zealand, Australia, and countries in Scandinavia. In July 2004, PhotoCure received FDA approval in the United States for its AK therapy. If PhotoCure enters into the marketplace with its AK therapy, its product will directly compete with our products. In April 2002, we received a copy of a notice issued by PhotoCure ASA to Queen’s University at Kingston, Ontario, alleging that one of the patents covered by our agreement with PARTEQ, Australian Patent No. 624985, relating to ALA, was invalid. As a consequence of this action, Queen’s University assigned the Australian patent to us so that we could participate directly in this litigation. In April 2005, the Federal Court of Australia ruled that the Australian patent assigned to DUSA by Queen’s University which relates to DUSA’s aminolevulinic acid photodynamic therapy is valid and remains in full force and effect. However, the Court also ruled that PhotoCure’s product, Metvix, does not infringe the claims in the Australian patent. On May 30, 2006, we entered into a patent license agreement under which we granted PhotoCure ASA a non-exclusive license under the patents we license from PARTEQ for ALA esters. In addition, we granted a non-exclusive license to PhotoCure for its existing formulations of Hexvix® and Metvix® (known in the U.S. as Metvixia®) for any patent we own now or in the future. PhotoCure is obligated to pay royalties on sales of its ester products to the extent they are covered by our patents in the U.S. and certain other territories. As part of the agreement, PhotoCure paid us a prepaid royalty in the amount of $1 million. See section entitled “Legal Proceedings”. In August 2003, Axcan Pharma Inc. received FDA approval for the use of its product, PHOTOFRIN® 3, for photodynamic therapy in the treatment of high grade dysplasia associated with Barrett’s esophagus. This approval enabled Axcan to be the first company to market a PDT therapy for this indication in which we also have an interest. There are also non-PDT products for the treatment of AKs, including cryotherapy with liquid nitrogen, 5-fluorouracil (Efudex®)4, diclofenac sodium (Solaraze®)5, and imiquimod (ALDARA™)6. Other AK therapies are also known to be under development by companies such as Medigene (GmbH), Peplin (Australia) and others. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive, and many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. In addition, several of these companies have significantly greater experience than we do in developing products, conducting preclinical and clinical testing and obtaining regulatory approvals to market products for health care. Our competitors may succeed in developing products that are safer or more effective than ours and in obtaining regulatory marketing approval of future products before we do. Our competitiveness may also be affected by our ability to manufacture and market our products and by the level of reimbursement for the cost of our drug and treatment by third-party payors, such as insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and government agencies. We believe that comparisons of the properties of various photosensitizing PDT drugs will also highlight important competitive issues. We expect that our principal methods of competition with other PDT companies will be based upon such factors as the ease of administration of our photodynamic 3 PHOTOFRIN ® is a registered trademark of Axcan Pharma Inc. 4 Efudex ® is a registered trademark of Valeant Pharmaceuticals International. 5 Solaraze ® is a registered trademark of SkyePharma PLC. 6 ALDARA™ is a trademark of 3M Company. 21 Table of Contents therapy; the degree of generalized skin sensitivity to light; the number of required doses; the selectivity of our drug for the target lesion or tissue of interest; and the type and cost of our light systems. New drugs or future developments in PDT, laser products or in other drug technologies may provide therapeutic or cost advantages for competitive products. No assurance can be given that developments by other parties will not render our products uncompetitive or obsolete. DUSA also markets the BLU-U® without Levulan® for the treatment of moderate inflammatory acne vulgaris and general dermatological conditions. Our competition for the BLU-U® without Levulan® for moderate inflammatory acne vulgaris is primarily oral antibiotics, topical antibiotics and other topical prescription drugs, as well as various laser and non-laser light sources. As blue light alone for acne is still a relatively new therapy compared to existing therapies, reimbursement has not been established by private insurance companies, which may also affect our competitive position versus traditional therapies which are reimbursed. Our principal method of competition with existing therapies of AKs and moderate inflammatory acne vulgaris is patient benefits, including rapid healing and excellent cosmetic results. See section entitled “Business — Dermatology Indications, Actinic Keratoses; Acne”. Our Non-PDT Drug Products compete in the field of acne and rosacea with well-established therapies, such as over-the-counter topical medications for mild cases, and prescription topical medications or oral antibiotics for mild to moderate cases, as well as various laser and non-laser light sources. In addition, we expect that River’s Edge’s generic Nicomide® product will enter the market quickly. Other generic companies may also decide to enter the market while our patent litigation and reexamination process are proceeding, or thereafter if we do not ultimately prevail in our litigation with River’s Edge, or in the patent reexamination process. The entry of new products from time to time would likely cause us to lose market share and cause fluctuations in our product revenues in this market. Government Regulation The manufacture and sale of pharmaceuticals and medical devices in the United States are governed by a variety of statutes and regulations. These laws require, among other things: • approval of manufacturing facilities, including adherence to current good manufacturing practices, laboratory and clinical practices during production and storage known as cGMP, QSR, GLP and GCP, • controlled research and testing of products, • applications for marketing approval containing manufacturing, preclinical and clinical data to establish the safety and efficacy of the product, and • control of marketing activities, including advertising and labeling. The marketing of pharmaceutical products requires the approval of the FDA in the United States, and similar agencies in other countries. The FDA has established regulations and safety standards, which apply to the preclinical evaluation, clinical testing, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical products. The process of obtaining marketing approval for a new drug normally takes several years and often involves significant costs. The steps required before a new drug can be produced and marketed for human use in the United States include: • preclinical studies • the filing of an Investigational New Drug, or IND, application, • human clinical trials, and 22 Table of Contents • the approval of a New Drug Application, or NDA. Preclinical studies are conducted in the laboratory and on animals to obtain preliminary information on a drug’s efficacy and safety. The time required for conducting preclinical studies varies greatly depending on the nature of the drug, and the nature and outcome of the studies. Such studies can take many years to complete. The results of these studies are submitted to the FDA as part of the IND application. Human testing can begin if the FDA does not object to the IND application. The human clinical testing program involves three phases. Each clinical study is typically conducted under the auspices of an Institutional Review Board, or IRB, at the institution where the study will be conducted. An IRB will consider among other things, ethical factors, the safety of human subjects, and the possible liability of the institution. A clinical plan, or “protocol,” must be submitted to the FDA prior to commencement of each clinical trial. All patients involved in the clinical trial must provide informed consent prior to their participation. The FDA may order the temporary or permanent discontinuance of a clinical trial at any time for a variety of reasons, particularly if safety concerns exist. These clinical studies must be conducted in conformance with the FDA’s bioresearch monitoring regulations. In Phase I, studies are usually conducted on a small number of healthy human volunteers to determine the maximum tolerated dose and any product-related side effects of a product. Phase I studies generally require several months to complete, but can take longer, depending on the drug and the nature of the study. Phase II studies are conducted on a small number of patients having a specific disease to determine the most effective doses and schedules of administration. Phase II studies generally require from several months to 2 years to complete, but can take longer, depending on the drug and the nature of the study. Phase III involves wide scale studies on patients with the same disease in order to provide comparisons with currently available therapies. Phase III studies generally require from six months to four years to complete, but can take longer, depending on the drug and the nature of the study. Data from Phase I, II and III trials are submitted to the FDA with the NDA. The NDA involves considerable data collection, verification and analysis, as well as the preparation of summaries of the manufacturing and testing processes and preclinical and clinical trials. Submission of an NDA does not assure FDA approval for marketing. The application review process generally takes 1 to 4 years to complete, although reviews of treatments for AIDS, cancer and other life-threatening diseases may be accelerated, expedited or subject to fast track treatment. The process may take substantially longer if, among other things, the FDA has questions or concerns about the safety and/or efficacy of a product. In general, the FDA requires properly conducted, adequate and well-controlled clinical studies demonstrating safety and efficacy with sufficient levels of statistical assurance. However, additional information may be required. For example, the FDA may also request long-term toxicity studies or other studies relating to product safety or efficacy. Even with the submission of such data, the FDA may decide that the application does not satisfy its regulatory criteria for approval and may disapprove the NDA. Finally, the FDA may require additional clinical tests following NDA approval to confirm safety and efficacy, often referred to as Phase IV clinical trials. Upon approval, a prescription drug may only be marketed for the approved indications in the approved dosage forms and at the approved dosage with the approved labeling. Adverse experiences with the product must be reported to the FDA. In addition, the FDA may impose restrictions on the use of the drug that may be difficult and expensive to administer. Product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory requirements is not maintained or if problems occur or are discovered after the product reaches the market. After a product is approved for a given indication, subsequent new indications, dosage forms, or dosage levels for the same product must be reviewed by the FDA after the filing and upon approval of a supplemental NDA. The supplement deals primarily with safety and effectiveness data related to the new indication or dosage. Finally, the FDA requires reporting of certain safety and other information, often referred to as “adverse events” that become known to a manufacturer of an approved drug. Safety information collected through this process can result in changes to a product’s labeling or withdrawal of a product from the market. If an active ingredient of a drug product has been previously approved, drug applications can be filed that may be less time-consuming and costly. 23 Table of Contents On December 3, 1999, the FDA approved the marketing of our Levulan® Kerastick® 20% Topical Solution with PDT for treatment of AKs of the face or scalp. The commercial version of our BLU-U®, used together with the Kerastick® to provide PDT for the treatment of non-hyperkeratotic actinic keratoses, or AKs, of the face or scalp, was approved on September 26, 2000. In September 2003, we received clearance from the FDA to market the BLU-U® without Levulan® PDT for the treatment of moderate inflammatory acne vulgaris and general dermatological conditions. Other than the FDA-approved use of the Levulan® Kerastick® with PDT for treatment of AKs, and the FDA clearance to market the BLU-U for moderate inflammatory acne and other dermatologic conditions, our other potential PDT products still require significant development, including additional preclinical and/or clinical testing, and regulatory marketing approval prior to commercialization. The process of obtaining required approvals can be costly and time consuming and there can be no guarantee that the use of Levulan® in any future products will be successfully developed, prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials, or receive applicable regulatory marketing approvals. Medical devices, such as our light source device, are also subject to the FDA’s rules and regulations. These products are required to be tested, developed, manufactured and distributed in accordance with FDA regulations, including good manufacturing, laboratory and clinical practices. Under the Food, Drug & Cosmetic Act, all medical devices are classified as Class I, II or III devices. The classification of a device affects the degree and extent of the FDA’s regulatory requirements, with Class III devices subject to the most stringent requirements and FDA review. Generally, Class I devices are subject to general controls (for example, labeling and adherence to the cGMP requirement for medical devices), and Class II devices are subject to general controls and special controls (for example, performance standards, postmarket surveillance, patient registries and FDA guidelines). Class III devices, which typically are life-sustaining or life-supporting and implantable devices, or new devices that have been found not to be substantially equivalent to a legally marketed Class I or Class II “predicate device,” are subject to general controls and also require clinical testing to assure safety and effectiveness before FDA approval is obtained. The FDA also has the authority to require clinical testing of Class I and II devices. The BLU-U® is part of a combination product as defined by FDA and therefore has been classified as a Class III device. We are developing an endoscopic device for the Barrett’s Esophagus indication which we believe will also be classified as Class III and be subject to the highest level of FDA regulation. Approval of Class III devices require the filing of a premarket approval, or PMA, application supported by extensive data, including preclinical and clinical trial data, to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the device. If human clinical trials of a device are required and the device presents a “significant risk,” the manufacturer of the device must file an investigational device exemption or “IDE” application and receive FDA approval prior to commencing human clinical trials. At present, our devices are being studied in preclinical and clinical trials under our INDs. Following receipt of the PMA application, if the FDA determines that the application is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review, the agency will accept it for filing and further review. Once the submission is filed, the FDA begins a review of the PMA application. Under the Medical Device User Fee and Modernization Act, the FDA has 180 days to review a PMA application and respond to the sponsor. The review of PMA applications more often occurs over a significantly protracted time period, and the FDA may take up to 2 years or more from the date of filing to complete its review. In addition, a PMA for a device which forms part of a combination product will not be approved unless and until the NDA for the corresponding drug is also approved. The PMA process can be expensive, uncertain and lengthy. A number of other companies have sought premarket approval for devices that have never been approved for marketing. The review time is often significantly extended by the FDA, which may require more information or clarification of information already provided in the submission. During the review period, an advisory committee likely will be convened to review and evaluate the PMA application and provide recommendations to the FDA as to whether the device should be approved for marketing. In addition, the FDA will inspect the manufacturing facility to ensure compliance with cGMP requirements for medical devices prior to approval of the PMA application. If granted, the premarket approval may include significant limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed, and the agency may require post-marketing 24 Table of Contents studies of the device. The Medical Device Reporting regulations require that we provide information to the FDA whenever there is evidence to reasonably suggest that one of our devices may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or, if a malfunction were to recur, could cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Under FDA regulations, we are required to submit reports of certain voluntary recalls and corrections to the FDA. If the FDA believes that a company is not in compliance with applicable regulations, it can institute proceedings to detain or seize products, issue a warning letter, issue a recall order, impose operating restrictions, enjoin future violations and assess civil penalties against that company, its officers or its employees and can recommend criminal prosecution to the Department of Justice. Medical products containing a combination of drugs, including biologic drugs, or devices may be regulated as “combination products”. A combination product generally is defined as a product comprised of components from two or more regulatory categories (drug/device, device/biologic, drug/biologic, etc.). In December 2002, the FDA established the Office of Combination Products, or OCP, whose responsibilities, according to the FDA, will cover the entire regulatory life cycle of combination products, including jurisdiction decisions as well as the timeliness and effectiveness of pre-market review, and the consistency and appropriateness of post-market regulation. In connection with our NDA for the Levulan® Kerastick® with PDT for AKs, a combination filing (including a PMA for the BLU-U® light source device and the NDA for the Levulan® Kerastick®) was submitted to the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research. The PMA was then separated from the NDA submission by the FDA and reviewed by the FDA’s Center for Devices and Radiological Health. Based upon this experience, we anticipate that any future NDAs for Levulan® PDT/PD will be a combination filing accompanied by PMAs. There is no guarantee that PDT products will continue to be regulated as combination products. The United States Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 known as the Hatch-Waxman Act establishes a 5-year period of marketing exclusivity from the date of NDA approval for new chemical entities approved after September 24, 1984. Levulan® is a new chemical entity and market exclusivity under this law expired on December 3, 2004. After the expiration of the Hatch-Waxman exclusivity period, any third-party who submits an application for approval for a drug product containing ALA must provide a certification that (i) no patent information has been filed; (ii) that such patent has expired; (iii) marketing will not commence until the patent(s) has expired; or (iv) that the patent is invalid or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use, or sale of the third-party applicant. Any abbreviated or paper NDA applicant will be subject to the notification provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act, which should facilitate our notification about potential infringement of our patent rights. The abbreviated or paper NDA applicant must notify the NDA holder and the owner of any patent applicable to the abbreviated or paper NDA product, of the application and intent to market the drug that is the subject of the NDA. Generally, we try to design our protocols for clinical studies so that the results can be used in all the countries where we hope to market the product. However, countries sometimes require additional studies to be conducted on patients located in their country. Prior to marketing a product in other countries, approval by that nation’s regulatory authorities must be obtained. We have received such approval in Canada, and together with Stiefel under our agreement for Latin America are in the process of securing acceptable pricing approval in Brazil, having received regulatory approval in Brazil and Mexico. Also, together with Daewoong, we are applying for approval in Korea, and expect to apply for approvals in additional territories with Stiefel and Daewoong. Medical device regulations also are in effect in many of the countries outside the United States in which we do business. These laws range from comprehensive device approval and quality system requirements for some or all of our medical device products to simpler requests for product data or certifications. The number and scope of these requirements are increasing. Under the European Union Medical Device Directive, all medical devices must meet the Medical Device Directive standards and receive CE Mark certification. CE Mark certification requires a comprehensive Quality System program 25 Table of Contents and submission of data on a product to a “Notified Body” in Europe. The Medical Device Directive, ISO 9000 series and ISO 13485 are recognized international quality standards that are designed to ensure that we develop and manufacture quality medical devices. A recognized Notified Body (an organization designated by the national governments of the European Union member states to make independent judgments about whether or not a product complies with the protection requirements established by each CE marking directive) audits our facilities annually to verify our compliance with these standards. We will be required to meet these standards should be decide to sell our devices outside of the United States. We are subject to laws and regulations that regulate the means by which companies in the health care industry may market their products to hospitals and health care professionals and may compete by discounting the prices of their products. This requires that we exercise care in structuring our sales and marketing practices and customer discount arrangements. Our international operations subject us to laws regarding sanctioned countries, entities and persons, customs, import-export and other laws regarding transactions in foreign countries. Among other things, these laws restrict, and in some cases prohibit, United States companies from directly or indirectly selling goods, technology or services to people or entities in certain countries. In addition, these laws require that we exercise care in structuring our sales and marketing practices in foreign counties. Our research, development and manufacturing processes involve the controlled use of certain hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and certain waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by the controlling laws and regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. In the event of this type of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any liability could exceed our resources. Although we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations, we could incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future, and our operations, business or assets could be materially adversely affected by current or future environmental laws or regulations. In addition to the above regulations, we are and may be subject to regulation under federal and state laws, including, but not limited to, requirements regarding occupational health and safety, laboratory practices and the maintenance of personal health information. As a public company, we are subject to the securities laws and regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We may also be subject to other present and possible future local, state, federal and foreign regulations. Certain of the products acquired in connection with the Sirius merger must meet certain minimum manufacturing and labeling standards established by the FDA and applicable to products marketed without approved marketing applications including Nicomide®. FDA regulates such products under its marketed unapproved drugs compliance policy guide entitled, “Marketed New Drugs without Approved NDAs or ANDAs.” Under this policy, FDA recognizes that certain unapproved products, based on the introduction date of their active ingredients and the lack of safety concerns, have been marketed for many years and, at this time, will not be the subject of any enforcement action. The FDA has recently taken a more proactive role and is strongly encouraging manufacturers of such products to submit applications to obtain marketing approval and we have begun discussions with FDA to begin that process. FDA’s enforcement discretion policy does not apply to drugs or firms that may be in violation of regulatory requirements other than preapproval submission requirements and FDA may bring an action against a drug or a firm when FDA concludes that such other violations exist. The contract manufacturer of Nicomide® has received a request from the FDA for labeling information and justification for the belief that the product is exempt from drug approval requirements, has received a warning letter to cease manufacturing a different marketed unapproved drug, and has been cited for GMP violations. We believe that the GMP issues do not directly involve our products. There can be no assurance that the FDA will continue this policy or not take a contrary position with any individual products. If the FDA were to do so, we may be required to make certain labeling changes and market these products as over-the-counter products or as dietary supplements under applicable legislation, or withdraw such products from the 26 Table of Contents market, unless and until we submit a marketing application and obtain FDA marketing approval. Any such action by the FDA could have a material impact on our Non-PDT Drug Product revenues, particularly if the action were taken with respect to Nicomide®. With the enactment of the Drug Export Amendments Act of the United States in 1986, products not yet approved by the FDA may be exported to certain foreign markets if the product is approved by the importing nation and approved for export by the United States government. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to get approval for any of our potential products from any importing nations’ regulatory authorities or be able to participate in the foreign pharmaceutical market. Our research and development activities have involved the controlled use of certain hazardous materials, such as mercury in fluorescent tubes. We are subject to various laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and certain waste products. During the design, construction and validation phases of our Kerastick® facility, we have taken steps to ensure that appropriate environmental controls associated with the facility comply with environmental laws and standards. We can provide no assurance that we will not have to make significant additional expenditures in order to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future. Furthermore, we cannot assure that current or future environmental laws or regulations will not materially adversely effect our operations, business or assets. Although we believe that our safety procedures for the handling and disposal of such hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by current environmental laws and regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any such liability could exceed our resources. Product Liability and Insurance We are subject to the inherent business risk of product liability claims in the event that the use of our technology or any prospective product is alleged to have resulted in adverse effects during testing or following marketing approval of any such product for commercial sale. We maintain product liability insurance for coverage of our clinical trial activities and for our commercial supplies. There can be no assurance that such insurance will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or that it will provide adequate coverage against all potential claims. Employees At the end of 2006, we had 85 employees including two part-time employees, which was an increase over the 2005 levels. We also retain numerous independent consultants and temporary employees to support our business needs. We have employment agreements with all of our key executive officers. Internet Information Our internet site is located at www.dusapharma.com. Copies of our reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, including Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, may be accessed from our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish such reports to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Please note that our internet address is being provided for reference only and no information contained therein is incorporated by reference into our Exchange Act filings. 27 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock is very speculative and involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information in, or incorporated by reference in, this report. The following are among the risks we face related to our business, assets and operations. They are not the only ones we face. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and you might lose all or part of your investment. This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. We use words such as “anticipate”, “believe”, “expect”, “future” and “intend” and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements for many reasons, including the factors described below and elsewhere in this report. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this report. Risks Related To DUSA We Are Not Currently Profitable And May Not Be Profitable In The Future Unless We Can Successfully Market And Sell Significantly Higher Quantities Of Our Products. Nicomide® Will Likely Lose Significant Market Share With The Anticipated Entry Of A Generic Product And Our Ability To Become Profitable Will Be More Difficult In March 2006, we acquired Nicomide®, in connection with our merger with Sirius Laboratories, Inc. Shortly after the closing of the merger, we became engaged in patent litigation with River’s Edge, a company that launched a generic Nicomide® product. River’s Edge has also requested that the United States Patent and Trademark Office reexamine the Nicomide® patent claiming that it is invalid. The USPTO accepted the application for reexamination of the patent and the parties have submitted their responses to the first office action. Although the court issued a preliminary injunction against sales of River’s Edge’s product in May, 2006, the injunction was lifted on March 7, 2007, due, in part, to the court’s determination that the reexamination process presented sufficient changed circumstances to warrant the dissolution of the injunction. We expect that River’s Edge will reenter the market with its product in competition with Nicomide®. We expect that Nicomide® sales will be adversely impacted throughout the litigation process and have a material negative impact on our revenues, results of operations and liquidity. If we do not ultimately prevail in our lawsuit, or if the Nicomide® patent is found to be invalid, our revenues from sales of Nicomide® will decrease permanently, and our ability to become profitable will be more difficult. We have reviewed the valuation of our intangible assets and goodwill associated with Nicomide® for impairment and have recorded an impairment charge of $15.7 million to write down the remaining net book value of the intangible assets. Any Failure To Comply With Ongoing Governmental Regulations In The United States And Elsewhere Will Limit Our Ability To Market Our Products. The manufacture and marketing of our products are subject to continuing FDA review as well as comprehensive regulation by the FDA and by state and local regulatory authorities. These laws require, among other things: • approval of manufacturing facilities, including adherence to good manufacturing and laboratory practices during production and storage, 28 Table of Contents • controlled research and testing of some of these products even after approval, and • control of marketing activities, including advertising and labeling. If we, or any of our contract manufacturers, fail to comply with these requirements, we may be limited in the jurisdictions in which we are permitted to sell our products. Additionally, if we or our manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory approval requirements, a regulatory agency may also: • send us warning letters, • impose fines and other civil penalties on us, • seize our products, • suspend our regulatory approvals, • cease the manufacture of our products • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us, • refuse to permit exports of our products from the United States, • require us to recall products, • require us to notify physicians of labeling changes and/or product related problems, • impose restrictions on our operations, and/or • criminally prosecute us. We and our manufacturers must continue to comply with the FDA’s Good Manufacturing Practice, commonly known as cGMP, and Quality System Regulation, or QSR, and equivalent foreign regulatory requirements. The cGMP requirements govern quality control and documentation policies and procedures. In complying with cGMP and foreign regulatory requirements, we and our third-party manufacturers will be obligated to expend time, money and effort in production, record keeping and quality control to assure that our products meet applicable specifications and other requirements. As part of our FDA approval for the Levulan® Kerastick® for AK, we were required to conduct two Phase IV follow-up studies. We successfully completed the first study; and submitted our final report on the second study to the FDA in January 2004. The FDA could request additional information and/or studies. Additionally, if previously unknown problems with the product, a manufacturer or its facility are discovered in the future, changes in product labeling restrictions or withdrawal of the product from the market may occur. Manufacturing facilities are subject to ongoing periodic inspection by the FDA, including unannounced inspections. We cannot guarantee that our third-party supply sources, or our own Kerastick® facility, will continue to meet all applicable FDA regulations. If we, or any of our manufacturers, including without limitation, the manufacturer of Nicomide®, who has received warning letters from the FDA, or the manufacturer of the AVAR® products, fail to maintain compliance with FDA regulatory requirements, it would be time consuming and costly to remedy the problem(s) or to qualify other sources. These consequences could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. 29 Table of Contents Certain of the products acquired in connection with the Sirius merger must meet certain minimum manufacturing and labeling standards established by the FDA and applicable to products marketed without approved marketing applications including Nicomide®. FDA regulates such products under its marketed unapproved drugs compliance policy guide entitled, “Marketed New Drugs without Approved NDAs or ANDAs.” Under this policy, FDA recognizes that certain unapproved products, based on the introduction date of their active ingredients and the lack of safety concerns, have been marketed for many years and, at this time, will not be the subject of any enforcement action. The FDA has recently taken a more proactive role and is strongly encouraging manufacturers of such products to submit applications to obtain marketing approval and we have begun discussions with FDA to begin that process. FDA’s enforcement discretion policy does not apply to drugs or firms that may be in violation of regulatory requirements other than preapproval submission requirements and FDA may bring an action against a drug or a firm when FDA concludes that such other violations exist. The contract manufacturer of Nicomide® has received a request from the FDA for labeling information and justification for the belief that the product is exempt from drug approval requirements, has received a warning letter to cease manufacturing a different marketed unapproved drug, and has been cited for GMP violations. We believe that the GMP issues do not directly involve our products. There can be no assurance that the FDA will continue this policy or not take a contrary position with any individual products. If the FDA were to do so, we may be required to make certain labeling changes and market these products as over-the-counter products or as dietary supplements under applicable legislation, or withdraw such products from the market, unless and until we submit a marketing application and obtain FDA marketing approval. Any such action by the FDA could have a material impact on our Non-PDT Drug Product revenues, particularly if the action were taken with respect to Nicomide®. Label changes eliminating claims of certain medicinal benefits could make it more difficult to market these products and could therefore, negatively affect our revenues and profits. Patent Litigation Is Expensive, And We May Not Be Able To Afford The Costs. The costs of litigation or any proceeding relating to our intellectual property rights could be substantial even if resolved in our favor. Some of our competitors have far greater resources than we do and may be better able to afford the costs of complex patent litigation. For example, third-parties may infringe one or more of our patents, and we are spending significant resources to enforce our patent rights. Also, in a lawsuit against a third-party for infringement of our patents in the United States, that third-party may challenge the validity of our patent(s). We cannot guarantee that a third-party will not claim, with or without merit, that our patents are not valid, as in the case described below, or that we have infringed their patent(s) or misappropriated their proprietary material. Defending these types of legal actions involve considerable expense and could negatively affect our financial results. Additionally, if a third-party were to file a United States patent application in the United States, or be issued a patent claiming technology also claimed by us in a pending United States application(s), we may be required to participate in interference proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of the invention. A third-party could also request the declaration of a patent interference between one of our issued United States patents and one of its patent applications. Any interference proceedings likely would require participation by us and/or PARTEQ, could involve substantial legal fees and result in a loss or lessening of our patent protection. On March 28, 2006, a lawsuit was filed by River’s Edge Pharmaceuticals, LLC, or River’s Edge, against us alleging, among other things, that, prior to the merger, Sirius Laboratories, Inc. agreed to authorize River’s Edge to market a generic version of Nicomide®, and that the United States patent covering Nicomide® issued to Sirius in December, 2005 is invalid. The declaratory judgment suit was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia, Gainesville Division and has been dismissed. Nicomide is one of the key products DUSA acquired from Sirius in its merger. On April 20, 2006, we filed a patent infringement suit in the United States District Court in Trenton, New Jersey alleging that a River’s Edge niacinamide product infringes United States Patent No. 6,979,468, the patent that covers Nicomide®. Although a preliminary injunction against sales of River’s Edge’s product had been in place since May, 2006, the injunction was lifted on March 7, 2007, so we expect that 30 Table of Contents River’s Edge will sell its product in competition with Nicomide®. We expect that Nicomide® sales will decrease significantly during the litigation process and make it more difficult to afford the cost of the litigation. If we do not ultimately prevail in our lawsuit, or if the Nicomide® patent is found to be invalid, our revenues from sales of Nicomide® will decrease permanently. We expect to eliminate some expenses planned for 2007 and reallocate others to provide more support to Levulan® and our new product, ClindaReach™. We have reviewed the valuation of our intangible assets and goodwill associated with Nicomide® for impairment and have recorded an impairment charge of $15.7 million to write down the remaining net book value of the intangible assets. During 2005 and 2006, we filed several lawsuits against chemical suppliers, compounding pharmacies, a light device company, its distributor and a sales representative, and physicians alleging violations of patent law. While we have been successful in obtaining a default judgment against one compounding pharmacy, settled other suits favorably, and obtained consent judgments from several physicians, we do not know whether these lawsuits will prevent others from infringing our patents or whether we will be successful in stopping these activities which we believe are negatively affecting our revenues. If Product Sales Do Not Increase Significantly We May Not Be Able To Advance Development Of Our Other Potential Products As Quickly As We Would Like To, Which Would Delay The Approval Process And Marketing Of New Potential Products. If we do not generate sufficient revenues from our approved products, we may be forced to delay or abandon some or all of our product development programs as we are doing with Levulan® PDT for photodamage. The pharmaceutical development and commercialization process is time consuming and costly, and any delays might result in higher costs which could adversely affect our financial condition. Without sufficient product sales, we might be required to seek additional funding. There is no guarantee that adequate funding sources could be found to continue the development of all our potential products. We might be required to commit substantially greater capital than we have available to research and development of such products and we may not have sufficient funds to complete all or any of our development programs. Since We Now Operate The Only FDA Approved Manufacturing Facility For The Kerastick® And Continue To Rely Heavily On Sole Suppliers For The Manufacture Of Levulan®, The BLU-U®, Nicomide®, Nicomide-T®, the AVAR® line of products, METED®, Psoriacap® and Psoriatec®, Any Supply Or Manufacturing Problems Could Negatively Impact Our Sales. If we experience problems producing Kerastick® units in our facility, or if any of our contract suppliers fail to supply our requirements for products, our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. Although we have received approval by the FDA to manufacture the BLU-U® and the Kerastick® in our Wilmington, Massachusetts facility, at this time with respect to the BLU-U®, we expect to utilize our own facility only as a back-up to our current third party manufacturer or for repairs. The sole supplier of Nicomide® has received warning letters from the FDA regarding certain regulatory observations. The primary observations noted in the warning letters were not related to Nicomide®. However, with respect to Nicomide® and certain other products manufactured by this supplier, the FDA has requested that the manufacturer provide a copy of the labeling and information providing the basis for an exemption from the drug approval requirements. The FDA regulates such products under the compliance policy guide described above entitled, “Marketed New Drugs without Approved NDAs or ANDAs.” Nicomide® is one of the key products DUSA acquired from Sirius Laboratories, Inc. in connection with our merger completed in March, 2006. Nicomide® is an oral prescription vitamin supplement. If the FDA is not satisfied with the response to the warning letters issued to the manufacturer of Nicomide® and causes the manufacturer to cease operations, our revenues will be significantly negatively affected. 31 Table of Contents Manufacturers and their subcontractors often encounter difficulties when commercial quantities of products are manufactured for the first time, or large quantities of new products are manufactured, including problems involving: • product yields, • quality control, • component and service availability, • compliance with FDA regulations, and • the need for further FDA approval if manufacturers make material changes to manufacturing processes and/or facilities. We cannot guarantee that problems will not arise with production yields, costs or quality as we and our suppliers seek to increase production. Any manufacturing problems could delay or limit our supplies which would hinder our marketing and sales efforts. If our facility, any facility of our contract manufacturers, or any equipment in those facilities is damaged or destroyed, we may not be able to quickly or inexpensively replace it. Likewise, if there are any quality or supply problems with any components or materials needed to manufacturer our products, we may not be able to quickly remedy the problem(s). Any of these problems could cause our sales to suffer. We Have Only Limited Experience Marketing And Selling Pharmaceutical Products And, As A Result, Our Revenues From Product Sales May Suffer. If we are unable to successfully market and sell sufficient quantities of our products, revenues from product sales will be lower than anticipated and our financial condition may be adversely affected. We are responsible for marketing our products in the United States and the rest of the world, except Canada, Latin America and parts of Asia, where we have distributors. We are doing so without the experience of having marketed pharmaceutical products prior to 2000. In October 2003, DUSA began hiring a small direct sales force and we increased the size of our sales force to market our products in the United States. In addition, our sales personnel have only recently begun to sell and market the products we acquired in our merger with Sirius. If our sales and marketing efforts fail, then sales of the Kerastick®, the BLU-U®, Nicomide® and other products will be adversely affected. If We Cannot Improve Physician Reimbursement And/Or Convince More Private Insurance Carriers To Adequately Reimburse Physicians For Our Product Sales May Suffer. Without adequate levels of reimbursement by government health care programs and private health insurers, the market for our Levulan® Kerastick® for AK therapy will be limited. While we continue to support efforts to improve reimbursement levels to physicians and are working with the major private insurance carriers to improve coverage for our therapy, if our efforts are not successful, a broader adoption of our therapy and sales of our products could be negatively impacted. Although some reimbursement changes related to AK were made in 2005 and 2006, some physicians still believe that reimbursement levels do not fully reflect the required efforts to routinely execute our therapy in their practices. If insurance companies do not cover, or stop covering products which are covered, including Nicomide®, our sales could be dramatically reduced. 32 Table of Contents The Commercial Success Of Any Products That We May Develop Will Depend Upon The Degree Of Market Acceptance Of Our Products Among Physicians, Patients, Health Care Payors, Private Health Insurers And The Medical Community. Our ability to commercialize any products that we may develop will be highly dependent upon the extent to which these products gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurers, including managed care organizations and group purchasing organizations, and the medical community. If these products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate material product revenues, and we may not become profitable. The degree of market acceptance of our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: • the effectiveness, or perceived effectiveness, of our products in comparison to competing products; • the existence of any significant side effects, as well as their severity in comparison to any competing products; • potential advantages over alternative treatments; • the ability to offer our products for sale at competitive prices; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the strength of marketing and distribution support; and • sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. We Have Significant Losses And Anticipate Continued Losses We have a history of operating losses. We expect to have continued losses until sales of our products increase substantially. We incurred a net loss of $18,269,000 for the quarter ended December 31, 2006. We incurred net losses of $31,350,000 and $14,999,000 for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. As of December 31, 2006, our accumulated deficit was approximately $120,887,000. We cannot predict whether any of our products will achieve significant enough market acceptance or generate sufficient revenues to enable us to become profitable on a sustainable basis. If We Are Unable To Protect Our Proprietary Technology, Trade Secrets Or Know-How, We May Not Be Able To Operate Our Business Profitably. We Have Limited Patent Protection And If We Are Unable To Protect Our Proprietary Rights, Competitors Might Be Able To Develop Similar Products To Compete With Our Products And Technology. Our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on our ability to defend patents that have issued, obtain new patents, protect trade secrets and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We have no compound patent protection for our Levulan® brand of the compound ALA. Our basic ALA patents are for methods of detecting and treating various diseased tissues using ALA (or related compounds called precursors), in combination with light. We own or exclusively license ALA patents and patent applications related to the following: • methods of using ALA and its unique physical forms in combination with light, • compositions and apparatus for those methods, and • unique physical forms of ALA. 33 Table of Contents We have limited ALA patent protection outside the United States, which may make it easier for third-parties to compete there. Our basic method of treatment patents and applications have counterparts in only six foreign countries, and certain countries under the European Patent Convention. Even where we have patent protection, there is no guarantee that we will be able to enforce our patents. Additionally, enforcement of a given patent may not be practicable or an economically viable alternative. Some of the indications for which we may develop PDT therapies may not be covered by the claims in any of our existing patents. Even with the issuance of additional patents to DUSA, other parties are free to develop other uses of ALA, including medical uses, and to market ALA for such uses, assuming that they have obtained appropriate regulatory marketing approvals. ALA in the chemical form has been commercially supplied for decades, and is not itself subject to patent protection. There are reports of third-parties conducting clinical studies with ALA in countries outside the United States where PARTEQ, the licensor of our ALA patents, does not have patent protection. In addition, a number of third-parties are seeking patents for uses of ALA not covered by our patents. These other uses, whether patented or not, and the commercial availability of ALA, could limit the scope of our future operations because ALA products could come on the market which would not infringe our patents but would compete with our Levulan® products even though they are marketed for different uses. Nicomide® is covered by a United States patent which issued in December 2005. River’s Edge Pharmaceuticals, LLC has filed an application with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, for the reexamination of the patent. The USPTO accepted the application for reexamination of the patent and the parties have submitted their responses to the first office action. If the USPTO finds that the patent is invalid, generic products will be able to lawfully compete with Nicomide®. Although the court, in the patent infringement litigation described above, issued a preliminary injunction against sales of River’s Edge’s product in May 2006, the injunction was lifted on March 7, 2007, due, in part, to the court’s determination that the reexamination process presented sufficient changed circumstances to warrant the dissolution of the injunction. We expect that River’s Edge will reenter the market with its product in competition with Nicomide®. Also, recently two new products have been launched that could compete with Nicomide®. These events could cause us to lose significant revenues and put our ability to be profitable at risk. If we have to change the Nicomide® formulation to meet regulatory requirements, we may not have patent protection. While we attempt to protect our proprietary information as trade secrets through agreements with each employee, licensing partner, consultant, university, pharmaceutical company and agent, we cannot guarantee that these agreements will provide effective protection for our proprietary information. It is possible that: • these persons or entities might breach the agreements, • we might not have adequate remedies for a breach, and/or • our competitors will independently develop or otherwise discover our trade secrets; all of which could negatively impact our ability to be profitable. 34 Table of Contents We Have Only 2 Levulan® Therapies That Have Received Regulatory Approval Or Clearance And We Cannot Predict Whether We Will Ever Develop Or Commercialize Any Other Levulan® Products. Our Potential Products Are In Early Stages Of Development And May Never Result In Any Commercially Successful Products. To be profitable, we must successfully research, develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, introduce, market and distribute our products. Except for Levulan® PDT for AKs, the BLU-U® for acne, the ClindaReach™ pledget and the currently marketed products we acquired in our merger with Sirius, all of our other potential Levulan® and other potential product candidates are at an early stage of development and subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of new pharmaceutical products and products based on new technologies. These risks include: • delays in product development, clinical testing or manufacturing, • unplanned expenditures in product development, clinical testing or manufacturing, • failure in clinical trials or failure to receive regulatory approvals, • emergence of superior or equivalent products, • inability to market products due to third-party proprietary rights, and • failure to achieve market acceptance. We cannot predict how long the development of our investigational stage products will take or whether they will be medically effective. We cannot be sure that a successful market will continue to develop for our Levulan® drug technology. We Must Receive Separate Approval For Each Of Our Potential Products Before We Can Sell Them Commercially In The United States Or Abroad. All of our potential Levulan® products will require the approval of the FDA before they can be marketed in the United States. If we fail to obtain the required approvals for these products our revenues will be limited. Before an application to the FDA seeking approval to market a new drug, called an NDA, can be filed, a product must undergo, among other things, extensive animal testing and human clinical trials. The process of obtaining FDA approvals can be lengthy, costly, and time-consuming. Following the acceptance of an NDA, the time required for regulatory approval can vary and is usually 1 to 3 years or more. The FDA may require additional animal studies and/or human clinical trials before granting approval. Our Levulan® PDT products are based on relatively new technology. To the best of our knowledge, the FDA has approved only 3 drugs for use in photodynamic therapy, including Levulan®. This factor may lengthen the approval process. We face much trial and error and we may fail at numerous stages along the way. We cannot predict whether we will obtain approval for any of our potential products. Data obtained from preclinical testing and clinical trials can be susceptible to varying interpretations which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. Future clinical trials may not show that Levulan® PDT or photodetection, known as PD, is safe and effective for any new use we are studying. In addition, delays or disapprovals may be encountered based upon additional governmental regulation resulting from future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy. During September 2005, the FDA issued guidance for the pharmaceutical industry regarding the development of new drugs for acne vulgaris treatment. We are developing Levulan® PDT for acne. The FDA may issue additional guidance in the future, which may result on additional costs and delays. We must also obtain foreign regulatory clearances before we can market any potential products in foreign markets. The foreign regulatory 35 Table of Contents approval process includes all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA marketing approval and may impose substantial additional costs. Certain of the products acquired in connection with the Sirius merger must meet certain minimum manufacturing and labeling standards established by the FDA and applicable to products marketed without approved marketing applications including Nicomide®. FDA regulates such products under its marketed unapproved drugs compliance policy guide entitled, “Marketed New Drugs without Approved NDAs or ANDAs.” Under this policy, FDA recognizes that certain unapproved products, based on the introduction date of their active ingredients and the lack of safety concerns, have been marketed for many years and, at this time, will not be the subject of any enforcement action. The FDA has recently taken a more proactive role and is strongly encouraging manufacturers of such products to submit applications to obtain marketing approval and we have begun discussions with FDA to begin that process. FDA’s enforcement discretion policy does not apply to drugs or firms that may be in violation of regulatory requirements other than preapproval submission requirements and FDA may bring an action against a drug or a firm when FDA concludes that such other violations exist. The contract manufacturer of Nicomide® has received a request from the FDA for labeling information and justification for the belief that the product is exempt from drug approval requirements, has received a warning letter to cease manufacturing a different marketed unapproved drug, and has been cited for GMP violations. We believe that the GMP issues do not directly involve our products. There can be no assurance that the FDA will continue this policy or not take a contrary position with any individual products. If the FDA were to do so, we may be required to make certain labeling changes and market these products as over-the-counter products or as dietary supplements under applicable legislation, or withdraw such products from the market, unless and until we submit a marketing application and obtain FDA marketing approval. If We Are Unable To Obtain The Necessary Capital To Fund Our Operations, We Will Have To Delay Our Development Programs And May Not Be Able To Complete Our Clinical Trials. We may need substantial additional funds to fully develop, manufacture, market and sell our other potential products. We may obtain funds through other public or private financings, including equity financing, and/or through collaborative arrangements. We cannot predict whether any financing will be available at all or on acceptable terms. Depending on the extent of available funding, we may delay, reduce in scope or eliminate some of our research and development programs. We have, in fact, delayed additional studies relating to the use of Levulan® PDT to treat facial photodamage due, in part, to funding considerations and strategic prioritization. We may also choose to license rights to third parties to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise have attempted to develop and commercialize on our own which could reduce our potential revenues. Because Of The Nature Of Our Business, The Loss Of Key Members Of Our Management Team Could Delay Achievement Of Our Goals. We are a small company with only 85 employees, including 2 part-time employees as of December 31, 2006. We are highly dependent on several key officer/employees with specialized scientific and technical skills without whom our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer, especially in the photodynamic therapy portion of our business. The photodynamic therapy industry is still quite small and the number of experts is limited. The loss of these key employees could cause significant delays in achievement of our business and research goals since very few people with their expertise could be hired. Our growth and future success will depend, in large part, on the continued contributions of these key individuals as well as our ability to motivate and retain other qualified personnel in our specialty drug and light device areas. 36 Table of Contents Our Collaborations With Outside Scientists May Be Subject To Restriction And Change. We work with scientific and clinical advisors and collaborators at academic and other institutions that assist us in our research and development efforts. These scientists and advisors are not our employees and may have other commitments that limit their availability to us. Although our advisors and collaborators generally agree not to do competing work, if a conflict of interest between their work for us and their work for another entity arises, we may lose their services. In addition, although our advisors and collaborators sign agreements not to disclose our confidential information, it is possible that valuable proprietary knowledge may become publicly known through them. Risks Related To Our Industry Product Liability And Other Claims Against Us May Reduce Demand For Our Products Or Result In Damages. We Are Subject To Risk From Potential Product Liability Lawsuits Which Could Negatively Affect Our Business. The development, manufacture and sale of medical products exposes us to product liability claims related to the use or misuse of our products. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and may result in significant judgments against us. A successful claim in excess of our insurance coverage could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we cannot guarantee that continued product liability insurance coverage will be available in the future at acceptable costs. If the cost is too high, we may have to self-insure. Our Business Involves Environmental Risks And We May Incur Significant Costs Complying With Environmental Laws And Regulations. We have used various hazardous materials, such as mercury in fluorescent tubes in our research and development activities. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations which govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and specific waste products. Now that we have established our own production line for the manufacture of the Kerastick®, we are subject to additional environmental laws and regulations. We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with currently applicable environmental laws and regulations. However, we cannot guarantee that we will not incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future. We also cannot guarantee that current or future environmental laws or regulations will not materially adversely affect our operations, business or assets. In addition, although we believe our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and this liability could exceed our resources. We May Not Be Able To Compete Against Traditional Treatment Methods Or Keep Up With Rapid Changes In The Biotechnology And Pharmaceutical Industries That Could Make Some Or All Of Our Products Non-Competitive Or Obsolete. Competing Products And Technologies Based On Traditional Treatment Methods May Make Some Or All Of Our Programs Or Potential Products Noncompetitive Or Obsolete. Well-known pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies are marketing well-established therapies for the treatment of many of the same conditions that we are seeking to treat, including AKs, acne, rosacea, and Barrett’s Esophagus. Doctors may prefer to use familiar methods, rather than trying our products. Reimbursement issues affect the economic competitiveness of our products as compared to other more traditional therapies. 37 Table of Contents Many companies are also seeking to develop new products and technologies, and receiving approval for medical conditions for which we are developing treatments. Our industry is subject to rapid, unpredictable and significant technological change. Competition is intense. Our competitors may succeed in developing products that are safer or more effective than ours. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. In addition, several of these companies have significantly greater experience than we do in developing products, conducting preclinical and clinical testing and obtaining regulatory approvals to market products for health care. We cannot guarantee that new drugs or future developments in drug technologies will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Increased competition could result in: • price reductions, • lower levels of third-party reimbursements, • failure to achieve market acceptance, and • loss of market share, any of which could adversely affect our business. Further, we cannot give any assurance that developments by our competitors or future competitors will not render our technology obsolete. On May 30, 2006, we entered into a patent license agreement with PhotoCure ASA whereby DUSA granted a non-exclusive license to PhotoCure under the patents DUSA licenses from PARTEQ, the licensing arm of Queens University, Kingston, Ontario Canada for esters of aminolevulinic acid (“ALA”). ALA is the active ingredient in DUSA’s Levulan® products. Furthermore, DUSA granted a non-exclusive license to PhotoCure for its existing formulations of its Hexvix® and Metvix® (known in the United States as Metvixia®) products for any DUSA patents that may issue or be licensed by DUSA in the future. PhotoCure received FDA approval to market Metvixia for treatment of AKs in July 2004 and it would be directly competitive with our Levulan® Kerastick® product should PhotoCure decide to begin marketing this product. While we are entitled to royalties from PhotoCure on its net sales of Metvixia, this product may adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our market. Our Products May Lose Market Share If New Manufacturers Begin Producing Competing Products That Are Able To Penetrate Our Market. We Have Learned That Compounding Pharmacies Are Producing A Form Of Aminolevulinic Acid HCl And Are Marketing It To The Medical Community. We are aware that there are compounding pharmacies that market compounded versions of aminolevulinic acid HCl as an alternative to our Levulan® product. Since December 2004, we filed lawsuits against two compounding pharmacies and physicians in several states alleging violations of the Lanham Act for false advertising and trademark infringement, and of United States patent law. All of these lawsuits have been settled favorably to us. More recently, we have sued chemical suppliers, and a light device company, its distributor and a sales representative, alleging that they induce physicians to infringe patents licensed to us, among other things. While we believe that certain actions of compounding pharmacies and others go beyond the activities which are permitted under the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and have advised the FDA and local health authorities of our concerns, we cannot be certain that our lawsuits will be successful in curbing the practices of these companies or that regulatory authorities will intervene to stop their activities. In addition, there may be other compounding pharmacies which are following FDA guidelines, or others conducting illegal activities of which we are not aware, which may be negatively impacting our sales revenues. If generic manufacturers, like River’s Edge, launch products to compete with Nicomide® in spite of our patent position, or if a court or the United States Patent and Trademark Office determine 38 Table of Contents that our patent is invalid, these manufacturers may erode our market and negatively impact our sales revenues, liquidity and operations. Our Competitors In The Biotechnology And Pharmaceutical Industries May Have Better Products, Manufacturing Capabilities Or Marketing Expertise. We anticipate that we will face increased competition as the scientific development of PDT and PD advances and new companies enter our markets. Several companies are developing PDT agents other than Levulan®. These include: QLT Inc. (Canada); Axcan Pharma Inc. (U.S.); Miravant, Inc. (U.S.); and Pharmacyclics, Inc. (U.S.). We are also aware of several companies commercializing and/or conducting research with ALA or ALA-related compounds, including: medac GmbH and photonamic GmbH & Co. KG (Germany); PhotoTherapeutics, Inc. (U.K.) and PhotoCure ASA (Norway) which entered into a marketing agreement with Galderma S.A. for countries outside of Nordic countries for certain dermatology indications. There are many pharmaceutical companies that compete with us in the field of dermatology, particularly in the acne and rosacea markets. PhotoCure has received marketing approval of its ALA precursor (ALA methyl-ester) compound for PDT treatment of AKs and basal cell carcinoma in the European Union, New Zealand, Australia and countries in Scandinavia. PhotoCure’s marketing partner could begin to market its product in direct competition with Levulan® in the U.S. under the terms of our recently entered patent license agreement and we may lose market share. Axcan Pharma Inc. has received FDA approval for the use of its product, PHOTOFRIN®, for PDT in the treatment of high grade dysplasia associated with Barrett’s Esophagus. Axcan is the first company to market a PDT therapy for this indication, which we are also pursuing. We expect that our principal methods of competition with other PDT companies will be based upon such factors as: • the ease of administration of our method of PDT, • the degree of generalized skin sensitivity to light, • the number of required doses, • the selectivity of our drug for the target lesion or tissue of interest, and • the type and cost of our light systems. Our primary competition in the acne and rosacea markets include oral and topical antibiotics, other topical prescription and over-the-counter products, as well as various laser and non-laser light treatments. The market is highly competitive and other large and small companies have more experience than we do which could make it difficult for us to penetrate the market. We are also aware of new products that were launched recently which will compete with Nicomide® and the AVAR® line of products which could negatively impact our market share. In addition, we expect that River’s Edge’s generic Nicomide® product will enter the market quickly, and other generic companies may also decide to enter the market while our patent litigation and reexamination process are proceeding, or thereafter if the court or if the USPTO finds that our Nicomide patent is invalid. The entry of new products from time to time would likely cause us to lose market share. 39 Table of Contents Risks Related To Our Stock If the Shares of Common Stock held by former Sirius Shareholders are Sold, the price of the Shares Could Become Depressed All of the shares of DUSA’s common stock which were issued to the former Sirius shareholders have been subject to a lock-up provision under the terms of the merger agreement. On March 10, 2007, the lock-up provision on 1,380,151 shares was lifted. These shares have been registered and are freely tradable. If these shareholders decide to sell their shares, the price of the shares on NASDAQ could be depressed. If Outstanding Options, Warrants And Rights Are Converted, The Value Of Those Shares Of Common Stock Outstanding Just Prior To The Conversion Will Be Diluted. As of December 31, 2006 there were outstanding options and warrants to purchase 3,031,000 shares of common stock, with exercise prices ranging from U.S. $1.60 to $31.00 per share, and of CDN $6.79 per share, respectively. The holders of the options and warrants have the opportunity to profit if the market price for the common stock exceeds the exercise price of their respective securities, without assuming the risk of ownership. The holders are likely to exercise their securities when we would probably be able to raise capital from the public on terms more favorable than those provided in these securities. Results Of Our Operations And General Market Conditions For Specialty Pharmaceutical And Biotechnology Stocks Could Result In Sudden Changes In The Market Value Of Our Stock. The price of our common stock has been highly volatile. These fluctuations create a greater risk of capital losses for our shareholders as compared to less volatile stocks. From January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2006, the price of our stock has ranged from a low of $3.52 to a high of $16.30. Factors that contributed to the volatility of our stock during this period included: • quarterly levels of product sales; • clinical trial results; • general market conditions; • patent litigation; • increased marketing activities; and • changes in third-party payor reimbursement for our therapy. The significant general market volatility in similar stage pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies made the market price of our common stock even more volatile. Significant Fluctuations In Orders For Our Products, On A Monthly And Quarterly Basis, Are Common Based On External Factors And Sales Promotion Activities. These Fluctuations Could Increase The Volatility Of Our Stock Price. The price of our common stock may be affected by the amount of quarterly shipments of our products to end-users. Since our PDT products are still in the early stages of adoption, and sales volumes are still low, a number of factors could affect product sales levels and growth rates in any period. These could include the timing of medical conferences, sales promotion activities, and large volume purchases by our higher usage customers. In addition, seasonal fluctuations in the number of patients seeking treatment at various times during the year could impact sales volumes. These factors could, in turn, affect the volatility of our stock price. 40 Table of Contents Effecting A Change Of Control Of DUSA Would Be Difficult, Which May Discourage Offers For Shares Of Our Common Stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the board of directors to issue up to 100,000,000 shares of stock, 40,000,000 of which are common stock. The board of directors has the authority to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges, including voting rights, of the remaining 60,000,000 shares without any further vote or action by the shareholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. On September 27, 2002, we adopted a shareholder rights plan at a special meeting of DUSA’s board of directors. The rights plan could discourage, delay or prevent a person or group from acquiring 15% or more (or 20% or more in the case of certain parties) of our common stock, thereby limiting, perhaps, the ability of our shareholders to benefit from such a transaction. The rights plan provides for the distribution of one right as a dividend for each outstanding share of our common stock to holders of record as of October 10, 2002. Each right entitles the registered holder to purchase one one-thousandths of a share of preferred stock at an exercise price of $37.00 per right. The rights will be exercisable subsequent to the date that a person or group either has acquired, obtained the right to acquire, or commences or discloses an intention to commence a tender offer to acquire, 15% or more of our outstanding common stock (or 20% of the outstanding common stock in the case of a shareholder or group who beneficially held in excess of 15% at the record date), or if a person or group is declared an “Adverse Person”, as such term is defined in the rights plan. The rights may be redeemed by DUSA at a redemption price of one one-hundredth of a cent per right until ten days following the date the person or group acquires, or discloses an intention to acquire, 15% or 20% or more, as the case may be, of DUSA, or until such later date as may be determined by the our board of directors. Under the rights plan, if a person or group acquires the threshold amount of common stock, all holders of rights (other than the acquiring person or group) may, upon payment of the purchase price then in effect, purchase shares of common stock of DUSA having a value of twice the purchase price. In the event that we are involved in a merger or other similar transaction where DUSA is not the surviving corporation, all holders of rights (other than the acquiring person or group) shall be entitled, upon payment of the purchase price then in effect, to purchase common stock of the surviving corporation having a value of twice the purchase price. The rights will expire on October 10, 2012, unless previously redeemed. Our board of directors has also adopted certain amendments to DUSA’s certificate of incorporation consistent with the terms of the rights plan. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 