Item 1A. Risk Factors The following is a discussion of certain risks that may affect our business. These risks may negatively impact our existing business, future business opportunities, our financial condition or our financial results. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could also decline. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently see as immaterial, may also negatively impact our business. We need to increase our revenues in order to become profitable under our present cost structure. We have experienced net losses in seven of our last eight years. These losses result primarily from declining sales of our earlier established Alpha Hydrox products 8 Table of Contents and our household products. Maintaining or increasing our revenues is uncertain and involves a number of factors including consumer acceptance of our products, distribution of our products and other matters described below. Our cash flow is dependent upon operating cash flow and our existing bank line of credit. Because we are dependent on our operating cash flow, any loss of a significant customer, decreases in the distribution of our skin care or household chemical products, new competitive products affecting sales levels of our products or any significant expense not included in our internal budget could result in the need to raise cash, such as through bank financing. In addition, we utilize currently a line of credit which we plan to renew in order to maintain a reserve of cash while having sufficient cash funds for our operations. Except for the existing bank line of credit, we have no arrangements for an external financing of debt or equity, and we are not certain whether any such financing would be available on acceptable terms. Sales of our existing products are affected by changing consumer preferences. Our primary market is retail stores in the United States which sell to consumers or end users in the mass market. Consumer preferences can change rapidly and are affected by new competitive products. This situation is true for both skin care and household products and has affected our established products, most significantly our earlier established Alpha Hydrox products. For example, in the skin care area, we believe that our products with AHAs are effective in diminishing fine lines and wrinkles, but consumers may change permanently or temporarily to other products using other technologies or otherwise viewed as “new.” Any changes in consumer preferences can affect materially the sales and distribution of our products and thereby our revenues and results of operation. In both skin care and household products, we compete every day against the largest consumer product companies in the United States. Our large competitors regularly introduce new products and spend multiples of dollars more than we do on advertising, particularly television advertising. The distribution of our product and sales can be adversely impacted by the actions of our competitors. We have limited resources to promote our products with effective advertising. We sell our products in the consumer retail marketplace. Advertising, particularly television advertising, is necessary to reach the consumers. Our ability to advertise is affected by our size and resources. In addition, when we advertise on television, it can significantly increase our expenses while the effectiveness of any particular advertisement cannot be predicted. Maintaining or increasing our revenues is dependent on the introduction of new products that are successful in the marketplace. Sales of our earlier established Alpha Hydrox products, Scott’s Liquid Gold for wood and Touch of Scent have declined in recent years, except for a small increase in the sale of Scott’s Liquid Gold for wood in 2004 when we sold the product to additional retail stores. In order to address these declines, we have introduced new products, including Montagne Jeunesse sachets in 2001, the wood wipe and wood wash products in 2004 and 2005 and our new Alpha Hydrox products in 2005. We plan the introduction of additional products. If we are not successful in making ongoing sales of our newer products to retail store chains or these products are not well received by consumers, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents A loss of one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our product sales. For more than a majority of our sales, we are dependent upon sales to major customers, including Wal-Mart which is our largest customer. The easy access of consumers to our products is dependent upon major retail stores and other retail stores carrying our products, particularly mass merchandisers. The willingness of these customers (i.e., retail stores) to carry any of our products depends on various matters, including the level of sales of the product at the stores. Any declines in sales of a product to consumers can result in the loss of retail stores as our customers and the corresponding decreases in the distribution of the product. It is uncertain whether the consumer base served by these stores would purchase our products at other retail outlets. In the past, sales of our products have been affected by retail store chains which discontinue a product or carry the product in a lesser number of stores. More than a majority of our sales of skin care product are represented by the Montagne Jeunesse products which depend upon the continuation of our distributorship agreement with Montagne Jeunesse. Our distributorship agreement with Montagne Jeunesse is for a period of 18 months ending in November, 2006 and continues in force after this initial term subject to the right of either party to terminate the agreement with three months notice. As a practical matter, we also believe that the distribution of Montagne Jeunesse sachets is dependent upon our good relationship with Montagne Jeunesse. We face the risk that raw materials for our products may not be available or that costs for these materials will increase, thereby affecting our ability to either manufacture the products or our gross margin on the products. We obtain our raw materials from third party suppliers, some of which are sole source suppliers. While there are two suppliers of glycolic acid, we use one supplier. We have no long term contracts with our suppliers; and, if a contract exists, it is subject to termination or cost increases. We may not have sufficient raw materials for production of products manufactured by us if there is a shortage in raw materials or one of our suppliers terminates our relationship. In addition, changing suppliers could involve delays that restrict our ability to manufacture or buy products in a timely manner to meet delivery requirements of our customers. Our suppliers of products which we distribute can also be subject to the same risk with their vendors. Our sales are affected adversely by returns. In our industry, retail stores have the ability to return products. These returns result in refunds, a reduction of our revenues and usually the need to dispose of the resulting inventory at discounted prices. Accordingly, the level of returns can significantly impact our revenues and cash flow. Changes in the regulation of our products, including environmental regulations, could have an adverse effect on the distribution of our products or the function of our products. Regulations affecting our products include requirements of the FDA for cosmetic products and environmental regulations affecting emissions from our products. The FDA has mentioned the treatment of AHA products as drugs, which could make more expensive or prohibitive our production and sale of certain Alpha Hydrox products. Also, in the past, we have changed the formulation of our household products to satisfy environmental regulations. 10 Table of Contents Any adverse developments in litigation could have a material impact on us. We are subject to lawsuits from time to time in the ordinary course of business. While we expect those lawsuits not to have a material effect on us, an adverse development in any such lawsuit or the insurance coverage for a lawsuit could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and cash flow. Any loss of our key executives or other personnel could harm our business. Our success has depended on the experience and continued service of our executive officers and key employees. If we fail to retain these officers, our ability to continue our business and effectively compete may be substantially diminished. Because of our size, we must rely in many departments within our company on one or two managers; the loss of anyone of those could slow our product development, production of a product, and sale and distribution of a product. Our stock price can be volatile and can decline substantially. Our stock is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. The volume of our stock varies but is relatively limited. As a result, any events affecting us can result in volatile movements in the price of our stock and can result in significant declines in the market price of our stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 