ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We operate in a changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The following discussion highlights some of these risks. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly. Our operating results have in the past and may in the future fluctuate significantly depending on a number of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, the actual cash value, or ACV, of salvage vehicles, changes in the market value of salvage vehicles, delays or changes in state title processing, mild weather conditions that cause fewer traffic accidents, changes in regulations governing the processing of salvage vehicles, the availability and quality of salvage vehicles and buyer attendance at salvage auctions. We are also dependent upon receiving a sufficient number of total-loss vehicles as well as recovered theft vehicles to sustain our profit margins. Factors that can affect the number of vehicles received include, but are not limited to, driving patterns, weather conditions, reduction of policy writing by insurance providers, which would affect the number of claims over a period of time, and changes in direct repair procedures that would reduce the number of newer, less damaged total-loss vehicles, which tend to have higher salvage values. Future decreases in the quality and quantity of vehicle inventory, and in particular the availability of newer and less damaged vehicles, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, in the last few years there has been a declining trend in theft occurrences which reduces the number of stolen vehicles covered by insurance companies for which a claim settlement has been made. As a result of all the foregoing factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as any indication of future performance. Furthermore, revenues for any future quarter are not predictable with any significant degree of accuracy, and our operating results may vary significantly due to our relatively fixed expense levels. Due to all of the foregoing factors, it is likely that in some future quarters our operating results will fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. Competition in our industry is intense and, if we are unable to compete effectively, our financial results may be negatively affected. We face intense competition for the supply of salvage vehicles as well as competition from processors of vehicles from other national and regional salvage pools. We may encounter further competition from existing competitors and new market entrants that are significantly larger and have greater financial and marketing resources. Other potential competitors include used car auction companies, providers of claims software to insurance companies, certain salvage buyer groups and insurance companies, some of which presently supply auto salvage to us. While most insurance companies have abandoned or reduced efforts to sell salvage vehicles without the use of service providers such as us, they may in the future decide to dispose of their salvage directly to end users. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors, which could impair our ability to grow and achieve or sustain profitability. We depend on a limited number of key insurance companies to supply the salvage vehicles we sell at auction. A significant loss of or significant reduction in business with any of these suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Historically, a limited number of insurance companies have supplied a substantial portion of our salvage units. For example, in 2005, our three largest suppliers were State Farm, Zurich Insurance and GEICO, accounting for approximately 15%, 10% and 15%, respectively, of our total unit sales. Our agreements with our insurance company suppliers are generally subject to cancellation by either party upon 30 to 90 days’ notice. There can be no assurance that our existing agreements will not be cancelled 16 Table of Contents or that we will be able to enter into future agreements with these suppliers. A loss or reduction in the number of vehicles from any of these suppliers, or adverse changes in the agreements or termination of these agreements, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In order to maintain our national presence, we incur a significant amount of fixed costs to provide our services to a small number of insurance company suppliers. We may not be able to realize sufficient revenues from these services to cover our costs, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. The provision of our services to insurance company suppliers on a national or regional basis through our nationwide network of facilities results in a significant amount of fixed costs, such as occupancy and labor costs. We may not realize sufficient revenue from these services to cover our expenses, in which case, our operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Our business is dependent on information and technology systems. Failure to effectively maintain these systems could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our ability to provide cost-effective salvage vehicle processing solutions to our customers depends in part on our ability to effectively utilize technology to provide value-added services to our customers. We have implemented a new web-based operating system, which allows us to offer hybrid live/Internet auctions and to provide vehicle tracking systems and real-time status reports for our insurance company customers’ benefit, and to support and streamline vehicle registration and tracking, financial reporting, transaction settlement, vehicle title transfer and branch/headquarters communications. Our ability to provide the foregoing services depends on our capacity to store, retrieve and process data, manage significant databases, and expand and periodically upgrade our information processing capabilities. As we continue to grow, we will need to continue to make investments in new and enhanced information and technology systems. Interruption or loss of our information processing capabilities or adverse consequences from implementing new or enhanced systems could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. As our information system providers revise and upgrade their hardware, software and equipment technology, we may encounter difficulties in integrating these new technologies into our business. Although we have experienced no significant breaches of our network security by unauthorized persons, our systems may be subject to infiltration by unauthorized persons. If our systems or facilities were infiltrated and damaged by unauthorized persons, there could be a significant interruption to our ability to provide many of our electronic and web-based services to our customers. If that were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation. Failure to comply with laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our operations are subject to regulation, supervision and licensing under various federal, state and local agencies, statutes and ordinances. The acquisition and sale of totaled and recovered theft vehicles is regulated by state motor vehicle departments in each of the locations in which we operate. Changes in law or governmental regulations or interpretations of existing law or regulations could result in increased costs, reduced salvage vehicle prices and decreased profitability for us. In addition to the regulation of sales and acquisitions of vehicles, we are also subject to various local zoning requirements with regard to the location of our auction and storage facilities. These zoning requirements vary from location to location. Failure to comply with present or future regulations or changes in existing regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents We may be unsuccessful in pursuing our growth strategy of increasing vehicle sales at existing facilities, making acquisitions or completing greenfield expansions and may face significant challenges in integrating any acquisitions we do make, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to continue to grow revenues and profitability of our existing facilities or acquire new salvage auction facilities or build additional salvage auction facilities on terms economically favorable to us, or at all. In addition, we may be unsuccessful in expanding existing sites. Our ability to achieve these objectives is dependent on, among other things, the integration of new facilities and their information systems into our existing operations, the identification and lease of suitable premises and the availability of capital. There can be no assurance that this integration will occur, that suitable premises will be identified or that additional capital will be available to fund the expansion and integration of our business. Any delays or obstacles in this integration process could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, we have limited sources of additional capital available for acquisitions, expansions and start-ups. Our ability to integrate and expand our facilities will depend on our ability to identify and obtain additional sources of capital. In the future, we will also be required to continue to improve our financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures on a timely basis and expand, train and manage our employee work force. The failure to improve these systems on a timely basis and to successfully expand, train and manage our work force could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We may not successfully implement our business strategies. We may not be able to fully implement our business strategies or realize our expected cost savings, in whole or in part or within the time frames anticipated. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to correlate our higher levels of service with the payments we receive from our customers. Our cost savings, efficiency improvements and pricing strategies are subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. Additionally, our business strategy may change from time to time. As a result, we may not be able to achieve our expected results of operations and our actual income and operating cash flow may be negatively affected. The operation of our auction facilities poses certain environmental risks, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. In the salvage vehicle auction industry, large numbers of wrecked vehicles are stored at auction facilities for short periods of time. Minor spills of gasoline, motor oils and other fluids may occur from time to time at our facilities and may result in soil, surface water or groundwater contamination. Petroleum products and other hazardous materials are contained in aboveground or underground storage tanks located at certain of our facilities. Waste materials, such as waste solvents or used oils, are generated at some of our facilities and are disposed of as non-hazardous or hazardous wastes. We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental regulations and do not anticipate any material capital expenditure for environmental compliance or remediation. While we have not incurred significant expenditures for preventive or remedial action with respect to contamination or the use of hazardous materials, environmental laws and regulations could become more stringent over time and we may be subject to significant compliance costs in the future. Future contamination at one or more of our facilities, or the potential contamination by previous users of certain acquired facilities, however, creates the risk that we could incur significant expenditures for preventive or remedial action, as well as potential liability arising as a consequence of hazardous material contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents Our ability to operate our company successfully could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key personnel. Our success depends in large part on the performance of our executive management team and other key employees. If we lose one or more of our executive officers or key employees, our ability to operate our business and implement our business strategies successfully could be impaired. Even though we have employment agreements with certain of our executive officers, there can be no assurance that they will serve the term of their employment agreements or renew their employment agreements upon expiration. In addition, if we fail to attract other qualified personnel, our business prospects could be materially adversely affected. We are controlled by affiliates of Kelso, and their interests as equity holders may not be aligned with the reader’s interests. Certain private equity funds affiliated with Kelso own substantially all of our equity. The Kelso affiliates are able to elect all of our directors, appoint new management and approve any action requiring the vote of our outstanding common stock, including amendments of our articles of incorporation, mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets. The directors elected by the Kelso affiliates may make decisions affecting our capital structure, including decisions to issue additional capital stock and incur additional debt. The interests of our equity holders may not in all cases be aligned with the interests of our noteholders. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, the interests of our equity holders might conflict with the interests of the noteholders. In addition, our equity holders may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to our noteholders. Increases in interest rates could increase our interest expense. For the fiscal year ended December 25, 2005, our interest expense was approximately $15.6 million. We may be adversely affected by increases in interest rates. Our debt under our senior credit facilities, which includes a $ 115.0 million term loan and a revolving loan facility of $50.0 million, bears interest at floating rates. Interest on the loans extended to us under our senior credit facilities accrues based on either an Eurodollar base or a base rate, in each case plus an applicable margin. Eurodollar loans bear interest at the rate for deposits in dollars appearing on page 3570 of the Telerate screen as of 11:00 a.m., London time, two business days prior to the beginning of the applicable interest period. The base rate is the higher of (i) the rate most recently announced by the Bank of New York as its “prime rate” in effect at its principal office in New York City and (ii) the Federal Funds Effective Rate. An increase in these variable rates could result in an increase to our interest expense, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes. Our substantial leverage may impair our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the notes. We currently have a substantial amount of debt. As of December 25, 2005, our total debt on a consolidated basis (including capital leases) was approximately $265.0 million, and we also had $48.0 million that was available for additional borrowings under the revolving portion of our senior credit facilities. Our substantial debt could have important consequences, including: 19 Table of Contents • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions by making it more difficult for us to react quickly to changing conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate requirements; • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations for the payments of interest on our debt and reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate requirements; • exposing us to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because some of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have less debt. Despite current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. Subject to specified limitations, the indenture governing the notes and the credit agreement governing our senior credit facilities permit us and our subsidiaries to incur substantial additional debt. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the risks described in the previous risk factor could intensify. Covenant restrictions under our indebtedness may limit our ability to operate our business. The credit agreement governing our senior credit facilities and the indenture governing the notes contain, and our future debt agreements may contain, covenants that may restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. Our senior credit facilities and the indenture restrict, among other things, our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: • borrow money; • incur liens; • pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments or investments; • issue disqualified stock; • merge, consolidate or sell all or substantially all of our and our restricted subsidiaries’ assets; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; • create restrictions on dividends or other payments by our restricted subsidiaries; • sell certain assets and use proceeds from asset sales; and 20 Table of Contents • create guarantees of other indebtedness by restricted subsidiaries. In addition, our senior credit facilities require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Events beyond our control, including changes in general economic and business conditions, may affect our ability to meet those financial ratios and financial condition tests. We cannot give any assurances that we will meet those tests or that the lenders will waive any failure to meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under our senior credit facilities and the indenture. If an event of default under our senior credit facilities occurs, the lenders could terminate all commitments to lend and elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to pay such amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral pledged to them. We require a significant amount of cash to operate our business and to service our indebtedness and our ability to generate sufficient cash depends upon many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and refinance our debt and to fund working capital needs and planned capital expenditures depends on our ability to generate cash flow in the future. To some extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot give any assurances that our business will continue to generate cash flow from operations at levels sufficient to permit us to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness or that our cash needs will not increase. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt and meet our other needs, we may have to refinance all or a portion of our debt, obtain additional financing or reduce expenditures or sell assets that we deem necessary to our business. These measures may not be possible and we may not be able to obtain additional financing. The inability to obtain additional financing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. If we default on our obligations to pay our other indebtedness, or fail to comply with the covenants governing our indebtedness, we may not be able to make payments on the notes and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Any default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, including a default under our senior credit facilities that is not waived by the required lenders, and the remedies sought by the holders of such indebtedness could make us unable to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on the notes and substantially decrease the market value of the notes. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants, including financial and operating covenants, in the instruments governing our indebtedness (including our senior credit facilities), we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, the lenders under our revolving credit facility could elect to terminate their commitments and cease making further loans, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to seek to obtain waivers from the required lenders under our senior credit facilities to avoid being in default. If we breach our covenants under our senior credit facilities and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs, we would be in default under our senior credit facilities, the lenders could exercise their rights as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. We may not be able to make the change of control offer required by the indenture. Upon a change of control, as defined in the indenture, subject to certain conditions, we are required to offer to repurchase all outstanding notes at 101% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and 21 Table of Contents unpaid interest to the date of repurchase. The source of funds for that purchase of notes will be our available cash or cash generated from our subsidiaries’ operations or other potential sources, including borrowings, sales of assets or sales of equity. We cannot assure you that sufficient funds from such sources will be available at the time of any change of control to make required repurchases of notes tendered. In addition, the terms of our senior credit facilities limit our ability to repurchase the notes and provide that certain change of control events will constitute an event of default under our senior credit facilities. Our future debt agreements may contain similar restrictions and provisions. If the holders of the notes exercise their right to require us to repurchase all the notes upon a change of control, the financial effect of this repurchase could cause a default under our other debt, even if the change of control itself would not cause a default. Accordingly, it is possible that we will not have sufficient funds at the time of the change of control to make the required repurchase of our other debt and the notes or that restrictions in our senior credit facilities and the indenture will not allow such repurchases. In addition, certain corporate events, such as leveraged recapitalizations that would increase the level of our indebtedness, would not constitute a change of control under the indenture. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 