ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risks comprise all the material risks of which we are aware; however, these risks and uncertainties may not be the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business or financial performance. If any of the events or developments described below actually occurred, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR HIGHLY REGULATED INDUSTRY Increased scrutiny of post-secondary education providers by Congress, state Attorneys General and various governmental agencies may lead to increased regulatory burdens and costs. We and other post-secondary education providers have been subject to increased regulatory scrutiny and litigation in recent years. State Attorneys General, the Department of Education, Congress and other parties have increasingly focused on allegations of improper recruiter compensation practices and deceptive marketing practices, among other issues. For example, in May 2011 the U.S. Department of Education announced its intention to establish additional negotiated rulemaking sessions to prepare proposed regulations under the HEA. The U.S. Senate HELP Committee held a series of hearings on the for-profit education sector during 2010 and 2011 relating to student recruiting, accreditation matters, student debt, student success and outcomes, and other matters. The HELP Committee requested that the Government Accountability Office (“GAO”) perform an independent study of the for-profit education industry. The study is expected to be available sometime in 2011. Additionally, a number of state Attorneys General have recently launched investigations into post-secondary education institutions, including some of our schools. We received subpoenas from the Attorneys General of Florida and Kentucky in October 2010 and December 2010, respectively, in connection with investigations of our institutions and their business practices. We have nine schools located in Florida and three schools located in Kentucky. In July 2011, the Attorney General of Kentucky announced a national bipartisan effort including 19 states to examine potential abuses in the for-profit education industry. While the initial goal of the joint investigation is sharing information between the Attorneys General about potential violations of consumer protection laws, the Attorney General of Kentucky indicated that the Attorneys General may ultimately attempt to compel for-profit institutions located in their respective jurisdictions to revise their recruiting practices. We cannot predict the extent to which, or whether, these hearings and investigations will result in legislation, further rulemaking affecting our participation in Title IV programs, or litigation alleging statutory violations, regulatory infractions or common law causes of action. The adoption of any law or regulation that reduces funding for federal student financial aid programs or the ability of our schools or students to participate in these programs would have a material adverse effect on our student population and revenue. Legislative action also may increase our administrative costs and require us to modify our practices in order for our schools to comply fully with applicable requirements. Additionally, actions by state Attorneys General and other governmental agencies could damage our reputation and limit our ability to recruit and enroll students, which would reduce student demand for our programs and adversely impact our revenue. Failure of our schools to comply with extensive regulations could result in monetary liabilities or assessments, restrictions on our operations, limitations on our growth or loss of external financial aid funding for our students. A substantial majority of our net revenues are indirectly derived from federal student financial aid programs pursuant to Title IV of the HEA. Our participation in Title IV programs is subject to certification and oversight by the U.S. Department of Education and is further conditioned upon approvals granted by other agencies. Each of our schools also must obtain and maintain approval to enroll students, offer instruction and grant credentials from the state authorizing agency in the state in which the school is located. Such approval is also a precondition to the ability of our students to participate in Title IV programs. Participation in Title IV programs also requires each school to be accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the U.S. Department of Education as a reliable authority on institutional quality and integrity. Accreditation is, in turn, conditioned upon the maintenance of applicable state authorization. Our schools also must comply with the requirements of any loan guarantee agencies that guarantee certain federal student loans made to our schools’ students, the requirements of such state financial aid programs as may be available to our students and the requirements of specialized accrediting agencies which oversee educational quality in particular program areas. As a result, our schools are subject to extensive regulation and review by these agencies which cover virtually all phases of our operations. These regulations also affect our ability to acquire or open additional schools, add new educational programs, substantially change existing programs or change our corporate or ownership structure. The agencies that regulate our operations periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. See “Business — Accreditation”, “Business — Student Financial Assistance”, “Business — Federal Oversight of Title IV Programs”, “Business — State Authorization and Accreditation Agencies” and “Business — Canadian Regulation and Financial Aid”. 36 Table of Contents If any of our schools were to violate or fail to meet any of these legal and regulatory requirements, we could suffer monetary liabilities or assessments, limitations on our operating activities, loss of accreditation, limitations on our ability to add new schools or offer new programs, termination of or limitations on the school’s ability to grant degrees and certificates, or limitations on or suspension or termination of the school’s eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs. A significant portion of our students rely on federal student financial aid funds to finance their education. We cannot predict with certainty how all of these requirements will be applied or interpreted by a regulatory body or whether each of our schools will be able to comply with all of the applicable requirements in the future. The U.S. Department of Education’s program integrity regulations could materially and adversely affect our operations, business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. On October 29, 2010, U.S. Department of Education issued final regulations pertaining to certain aspects of the administration of the Title IV programs, including, but not limited to state authorization, gainful employment, compensation rules for persons engaged in certain aspects of admissions and financial aid, determination of attendance and definitions of a “credit hour” and a “substantial misrepresentation”. With minor exceptions, these regulations became effective July 1, 2011. These new regulations could have significant impacts on our business. Among the most significant regulatory changes that we have identified for our business are: • The elimination of certain “safe harbors” that had allowed, under limited and prescribed circumstances, payment of certain types of compensation to employees (including higher level employees) and third parties involved in student enrollment, certain recruiting, admissions or financial aid activities; • Notifying the U.S. Department of Education of, and obtaining its approval to offer, additional programs of study that lead to gainful employment, as part of the gainful employment regulations described further below; • Defining a credit hour for purposes of determining program eligibility for Title IV student financial aid; • Establishing more stringent state approval requirements that may require or encourage states to modify existing state approval and licensing processes; • Defining “academic attendance” to specifically exclude logging into an online class without active participation and otherwise generally limiting the types of activities that qualify as “academic attendance” in an online environment; and • Changing the definition of substantial misrepresentation to include, among other things, erroneous statements, including erroneous statements made by certain third-party vendors under contract to an institution, which may increase institutional liability and subject institutions to sanctions for statements containing inadvertent errors, and expose institutions to costly third-party litigation. We implemented a new compensation plan for our admissions representatives beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 in response to the revised compensation rules for employees who are engaged in recruiting of students or the awarding of financial aid and revised other practices. In connection with the new compensation plan, we eliminated enrollment results as a component of compensation for our admissions representatives. We believe that these changes to our business practices have negatively affected student recruitment or enrollment due to a decreased productivity from our admissions representatives and may have a negative impact on the recruitment and retention of employees. The new compensation plan for our admissions representatives will result in a decrease to our revenues if we are unable to maintain or increase the number of students enrolled in our schools. The final rules related to notifying the U.S. Department of Education, and obtaining its approval to offer, additional programs of study (other than certain liberal arts degree programs) require us to notify the U.S. Department of Education at least 90 days in advance of starting classes in any new program of study. The notice must include, among other things, information with regard to: • How we determined that a need for the program existed; • How the program was designed to meet local market needs for programs delivered in residence, or regional or national market needs for programs delivered by distance education over the Internet; • Any wage analysis that the institution performed; 37 Table of Contents • How the program was reviewed or approved by, or developed in conjunction with, business advisory committees, program integrity boards, public or private oversight or regulatory agencies and businesses that would likely employ graduates; • The inclusion of the program in the institution’s accreditation; and • The date that the institution plans to start classes in the program. The U.S. Department of Education will review our submitted information and advise us whether it must approve the new program of study. We do not know how the U.S. Department of Education will apply its rules with respect to additional programs. During fiscal 2011, we developed 16 academic programs not previously offered at any of our institutions and introduced over 350 academic programs to institutional locations that had not previously offered them. Any inability to obtain program approvals from the U.S. Department of Education in a timely manner could adversely impact our ability to serve new students and revise our programs to meet new areas of interest and respond to changing regulatory requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Under the U.S. Department of Education’s final rules regarding state authorization, institutions that participate in Title IV Programs must be authorized by name to offer post-secondary education by each state in which the institution is physically located. A state must also have a process to review and appropriately act on complaints concerning the institution, including enforcing applicable state laws. The U.S. Department of Education will determine whether a state’s institutional authorization and complaint process satisfies the U.S. Department of Education’s regulations. If a state was unable to establish an institutional authorization or complaint review process that satisfies the U.S. Department of Education’s regulations by July 1, 2011, the state had the option to request a one-year extension of the effective date of those regulations. The state authorization regulations also provide that if an institution offers post-secondary education through distance education to students in a state in which the institution is not physically located, the institution must satisfy any requirements of that state for the institution to offer post-secondary distance education to students in that state. The U.S. Department of Education subsequently issued a “Dear Colleague Letter” on March 17, 2011 permitting institutions who have not obtained all state approvals necessary to offer distance education to students to be in compliance with the regulation for the federal award year ending June 30, 2012 if the institution makes a good faith effort to be in compliance by June 30, 2011. The U.S. Department of Education stated in a subsequent “Dear Colleague Letter” on April 20, 2011 that it would not initiate any action to establish repayment liabilities or limit student eligibility for distance education activities undertaken before July 1, 2014, so long as the institution is making good faith efforts to identify and obtain necessary state authorizations before that date. A federal District Court overturned the U.S. Department of Education’s regulation governing state authorizations of distance education programs in July 2011. We anticipate that the U.S. Department of Education will issue additional guidance in light of the court ruling. As of June 30, 2011, we believe that: • All of our campuses were physically located in states that satisfied the U.S. Department of Education’s final rules regarding state authorization except for our schools located in California (14 schools) and Hawaii (one school). Both California and Hawaii have requested one-year extensions from the U.S. Department of Education to comply with the new regulations; and • Each of our institutions that was offering programs of study through distance education to students in states in which the institution was not physically located satisfied any requirements of those states for the institution to offer post-secondary education to students located in that state or had made a good faith effort to comply with the state requirements. We cannot predict the extent to which the U.S. Department of Education will determine that the institutional authorization or complaint review process of any state satisfies the U.S. Department of Education’s regulations. If any of our schools lost its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs because a state’s institutional authorization and complaint process does not satisfy the U.S. Department of Education’s regulations, we would likely be forced to close the school in that state. Closing multiple schools would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, though we made a good faith effort to comply with any required state licensing requirements for distance education in all jurisdictions where we have students, we may not be able to obtain all the necessary state authorizations. The failure to obtain any required authorizations from states where a significant number of our fully online students are located would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 38 Table of Contents The final rules related to determining when a program of study is required to measure student progress in clock hours, as opposed to credit hours, are unclear because they refer to a requirement to measure student progress in clock hours when receiving Federal or State approval and many agencies do not inquire or mandate whether student progress is measured in clock hours when approving academic programs. We have reviewed the regulations of each applicable state agency to determine whether the agency would require our schools to measure certain academic programs in clock hours under the new rule. Where appropriate, we have contacted state agencies for clarification. Due to the number of programs affected and the uncertainty surrounding the interpretation of this rule, we continue to monitor this issue and anticipate that further guidance from the U.S. Department of Education will be forthcoming. Students attending credit hour programs of study that are required to be measured in clock hours will likely receive less funds from Title IV programs to pay their cost of education with respect to those programs of study and will receive those funds at a slower rate. Students interested in those programs of study may have to use more expensive private financing to pay their cost of education or may be unable to enroll in those programs of study. Students may determine that they do not qualify for private financing or that the private financing costs make borrowing too expensive, which may cause students to abandon or delay their education. Any or all of these factors, including additional guidance from the U.S. Department of Education which is contrary to our current understanding of the clock hour rule, could reduce our enrollment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and stock price. The new substantial misrepresentation regulation significantly expands what may constitute substantial misrepresentation by an institution, including statements about the nature of its educational programs, its financial charges or the employability of its graduates. Under the final rule, any false, erroneous, or misleading statement, or statement that has the likelihood or tendency to deceive or confuse, that an institution, one of its representatives, or person or entity with whom the institution has an agreement to provide educational programs, marketing, advertising, recruiting or admissions services, makes directly or indirectly to a student, prospective student, any member of the public, an accrediting agency, a state licensing agency or the U.S. Department of Education could be deemed a misrepresentation by the institution. In the event that the U.S. Department of Education determines that an institution engaged in a substantial misrepresentation, it can revoke the institution’s program participation agreement, impose limitations on the institution’s participation in Title IV programs, deny participation applications on behalf of the institution, or seek to fine, suspend or terminate the institution’s participation in Title IV programs. The new regulation could create an expanded role for the U.S. Department of Education in monitoring and enforcing prohibitions on misrepresentation, as well as encourage private litigants to seek to enforce the expanded regulations through False Claims Act litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The program integrity rules require a large number of reporting and operational changes. We may be subject to administrative or other sanctions if we are unable to comply with these reporting and disclosure requirements on a timely basis. In addition, these changes, individually or in combination, may impact our student enrollment, persistence and retention in ways that we cannot now predict and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We also cannot predict with certainty how the regulations will be interpreted or whether we and our schools will be able to comply with these requirements in the future. The new regulations may also subject us to qui tam lawsuits by private parties for alleged violations of the federal False Claims Act or similar state False Claims Acts. Any such actions by other bodies that affect our programs and operations or lawsuits under the False Claims Act could have a material adverse effect on our student population, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If any of our programs fail to qualify as programs leading to “gainful employment” in a recognized occupation under U.S. Department of Education regulations, students in those programs would be unable to obtain Title IV funds to finance their education and, if student demand for those programs declined significantly, we may determine to cease offering those programs. U.S. Department of Education promulgated final regulations on June 13, 2011, imposing additional Title IV program eligibility requirements on educational programs. See Part I, Item 1 “Business — Student Financial Assistance — Program Integrity Regulations — Gainful Employment.” Because the U.S. Department of Education’s gainful employment rules will be implemented over several years and are based at least in part on data that is unavailable to us, it is not possible at this time to determine with any degree of certainty whether it will cause any of our programs to become ineligible to participate in the Title IV programs. However, under this new regulation the continuing eligibility of our educational programs for Title IV funding is at risk due to factors beyond our control, such as changes in the actual or deemed income level of our graduates, changes in student borrowing levels, increases in interest rates, changes in the federal poverty income level relevant for calculating discretionary income, changes in the percentage of our former students who are current in repayment of their student loans, and other factors. In addition, even though deficiencies in the metrics may be correctible on a timely basis, the disclosure requirements to students following a failure to meet the standards may adversely impact enrollment in that program and may adversely impact the reputation of our educational institutions. We have implemented a number of initiatives to respond to the gainful employment rules, such as shorter programs and lowering the costs associated with a number of our 39 Table of Contents programs. However, certain of our programs may be unable to maintain eligibility to enroll students receiving Title IV funds or have restrictions placed upon program offerings as a result of not meeting prescribed metrics. To the extent that our new programmatic offerings do not offset the loss of any of our current programs which do not satisfy one of the three metrics under the new gainful employment regulation, the loss of students or restrictions to program eligibility could have a material adverse effect on our student population, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we fail to obtain periodic recertifications for our schools to participate in Title IV programs, or if our certifications are withdrawn by the U.S. Department of Education prior to the next scheduled recertification, students at the affected schools would no longer be able to receive Title IV program funds. Our schools are required to seek recertifications from the U.S. Department of Education approximately every three years in order to participate in Title IV programs due to their provisional certification status. The current provisional certifications of our schools expire as follows: 14 schools expire during fiscal 2012; seven schools expire during fiscal 2013; and two schools expire during fiscal 2014. The U.S Department of Education typically performs a program review of all Title IV eligible institutions every six years, though recently they have increased the number of programs reviews they perform. Five reviews of our institutions were performed in fiscal 2011 as compared to three such reviews in fiscal 2010. We received final reports from the U.S. Department for four program reviews in fiscal 2011, including the three program reviews performed in fiscal 2010, and have not received a final report for four of the program reviews performed in fiscal 2011. We were recently notified by the U.S. Department of Education that it plans to perform additional program reviews of South University in September 2011 and The Art Institute of California – Los Angeles in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. The U.S. Department of Education will also review our schools’ continued certifications in the event that we undergo a change of ownership and control pursuant to U.S. Department of Education regulations. In addition, the U.S. Department of Education may take emergency action to suspend any of our schools’ certification without advance notice if it receives reliable information that a school is violating Title IV requirements and determines that immediate action is necessary to prevent misuse of Title IV funds. If the U.S. Department of Education were to decide not to renew or to withdraw our certification to participate in Title IV programs at any time, our students no longer would be able to receive Title IV program funds, which would have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues and results of operations. Congress may change eligibility standards or reduce funding for federal student financial aid programs, or other governmental or regulatory bodies may change similar laws or regulations relating to other student financial aid programs, which could reduce the growth of our student population and revenue. Political and budgetary concerns can significantly affect Title IV programs and other laws and regulations governing federal and state student financial aid programs. Title IV programs are made available pursuant to the provisions of the HEA, and the HEA must be reauthorized by Congress approximately every six years. Independent of reauthorization, Congress must annually appropriate funds for Title IV programs. In August 2008, the most recent reauthorization of the HEA was enacted, continuing the Title IV HEA programs through at least September 30, 2014. Future reauthorizations or appropriations may result in numerous legislative changes, including those that could adversely affect our ability to participate in the Title IV programs and the availability of Title IV and non-Title IV funding sources for our students. Congress also may impose certain requirements upon the state or accrediting agencies with respect to their approval of our schools. Any action by Congress or the U.S. Department of Education that significantly reduces funding for the federal student financial aid programs or the ability of our schools or students to participate in these programs would have a material adverse effect on our student population and revenue. Legislative action also may increase our administrative costs and require us to modify our practices in order for our schools to comply fully with applicable requirements. If we do not meet specific financial responsibility ratios and other compliance tests established by the U.S. Department of Education, our schools may lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs, which may result in a reduction in our student enrollment and an adverse effect on our results of operations. To participate in federal student financial aid programs, an institution, among other things, must either satisfy certain quantitative standards of financial responsibility on an annual basis or post a letter of credit in favor of the U.S. Department of Education and possibly accept other conditions or limitations on its participation in the federal student financial aid programs. As of June 30, 2011, we did not meet the required quantitative measures of financial responsibility on a consolidated basis due to our failure to satisfy the financial responsibility standards after the completion of the Transaction resulting from the amount of indebtedness we incurred and goodwill we recorded in connection with the Transaction. Accordingly, we are required by the U.S. Department of Education to post a letter of credit and are subject to provisional 40 Table of Contents certification and additional financial and cash monitoring of our disbursements of Title IV funds. The amount of the letter of credit is currently set at 15% of the Title IV program funds received by students at our schools during fiscal 2010, or $361.5 million. Outstanding letters of credit reduce the availability under our revolving credit facility. The borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility will decrease to $328.3 million on June 1, 2012. We are permitted to enter into cash secured letters of credit under our senior credit facility, which we may do in the event that we are unable to obtain sufficient additional capacity under the revolving credit facility. However, in the future we may not have sufficient letter of credit capacity to satisfy the letter of credit requirement for the U.S. Department of Education, which would limit our growth and potentially subject us to operating restrictions. We expect to continue to not satisfy the U.S. Department of Education’s quantitative measure of financial responsibility for the foreseeable future. As a result, we expect each of our schools to be required to continue on provisional certification for additional three-year periods. The current provisional certifications of our schools expire as follows: fourteen schools expire during fiscal 2012; seven schools expire during fiscal 2013; and two schools expire during fiscal 2014. We expect that the U.S. Department of Education’s evaluation of our schools’ financial responsibility on the basis of our consolidated financial statements will continue through future annual reviews and may result in continuation of the requirement that we maintain a letter of credit, provisional certification and financial and cash monitoring in future years. Any conditions or limitations on our participation in the federal student financial aid programs in addition to the letter of credit, provisional certification and additional financial and cash monitoring could adversely affect our net income and student population. We expect to be required to renew the letter of credit at the 15% level for as long as our schools remain provisionally certified, although the U.S. Department of Education could increase the amount substantially. There can be no assurance that the U.S. Department of Education will not require further restrictions as a condition of the renewal of our certification. Any failure to meet specific financial responsibility ratios and other compliance tests established by the U.S. Department of Education could affect our students’ ability to access student financial assistance programs, which would adversely affect our net income and student population. The consumer credit markets in the United States have recently suffered from increases in default rates and foreclosures on mortgages. Providers of federally guaranteed student loans have also experienced recent increases in default rates. Any increase in interest rates could contribute to higher default rates with respect to repayment of our students’ education loans. Such higher default rates may adversely impact our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, which could result in a significant reduction in our student population and our profitability. In the event of a bankruptcy filing by any of our schools, the schools filing for bankruptcy would not be eligible to receive Title IV program funds, notwithstanding the automatic stay provisions of federal bankruptcy law, which would make any reorganization difficult to implement. In addition, our other schools may be held to be jointly responsible for financial aid defaults experienced at the bankrupt schools. If we do not meet specific cohort default rate benchmarks established by the U.S. Department of Education, our schools may lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs, which may result in a reduction in our student enrollment and an adverse effect on our results of operations. Under the HEA, an institution may lose its eligibility to participate in certain Title IV programs if the rates at which the institution’s students default on their federal student loans exceed specified percentages, and these rates are expected to increase under recent changes to the calculation of cohort default rates under the HEA. See “Business – Federal Oversight of Title IV Programs – Cohort Default Rates.” Certain of our schools have default rates in excess of specified rates in the Federal Perkins Loan Program, which is not a material federal student aid program for us or any of our institutions. Though we believe our schools do not exceed either the specified rates for student default for our material programs or the percentage of revenue limitation test, loss of eligibility to participate in the federal student financial aid programs by one or more of our schools could have a material adverse effect on our student population and revenue. If any of our schools either fails to demonstrate “administrative capability” to the U.S. Department of Education or violates other requirements of Title IV programs, the U.S. Department of Education may impose sanctions or terminate that school’s participation in Title IV programs. Regulations adopted by the U.S. Department of Education specify criteria an institution must satisfy to establish that it has the requisite “administrative capability” to participate in Title IV programs. These criteria require, among other things, that the institution: • comply with all applicable federal student financial aid regulations; • have capable and sufficient personnel to administer the federal student financial aid programs; • have acceptable methods of defining and measuring the satisfactory academic progress of its students; • provide financial aid counseling to its students; and • submit all reports and financial statements required by the regulations. 41 Table of Contents If an institution fails to satisfy any of these criteria, or any other of the legal and regulatory requirements of Title IV programs, the U.S. Department of Education may: • require the repayment of federal student financial aid funds improperly disbursed; • transfer the institution from the “advance” system of payment of federal student financial aid funds to the “reimbursement” system of payment or “cash monitoring”; • place the institution on provisional certification status; or • commence a proceeding to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate the participation of the institution in Title IV programs. If one or more of our schools loses or is limited in its access to, or is required to repay, federal student financial aid funds due to a failure to demonstrate administrative capability or to comply with other requirements of Title IV programs, our business could be materially adversely affected. If our institutions do not comply with the 90/10 Rule, they will lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs. A provision of the HEA requires all for-profit education institutions to comply with what is commonly referred to as the 90/10 Rule, which imposes sanctions on participating institutions that derive more than 90% of their total revenue on a cash accounting basis from Title IV programs. An institution that derives more than 90% of its total revenue on a cash accounting basis from the Title IV programs for each of two consecutive fiscal years loses its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs and is not permitted to reapply for eligibility until the end of the following two fiscal years. Institutions which fail to satisfy the 90/10 Rule for one fiscal year are placed on provisional certification. Compliance with the 90/10 Rule is measured at the end of each of our fiscal years. For our institutions that disbursed federal financial aid during fiscal 2011, the percentage of revenues derived from Title IV programs ranged from approximately 88% to 57%, with a weighted average of approximately 78% as compared to a weighted average of approximately 77% in fiscal 2010. The revised rules included in the 2008 HEA reauthorization include relief through June 30, 2011 from a $2,000 increase in the annual Stafford loan availability for undergraduate students which became effective July 1, 2008. We anticipate that our 90/10 rate will increase substantially in fiscal 2012 in the event that relief from this additional $2,000 is not extended beyond June 30, 2011, which would adversely affect our ability to comply with the 90/10 Rule. While our consolidated 90/10 rate for fiscal 2012 is projected to remain under the 90% threshold, we project that some of our institutions will not comply with the 90/10 Rule in fiscal 2012 if the relief provided in the most recent HEA reauthorization is not extended. Continued decreases in the availability of state grants, together with the inability of households to pay cash due to the current economic climate and decreased availability of private loans, also have adversely impacted our ability to comply with the 90/10 Rule because state grants generally are considered cash payments for purposes of the 90/10 Rule. During fiscal 2011, students attending our schools received approximately $129 million of financial aid from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs and the U.S. Department of Defense. Some members of Congress have proposed substantially decreasing the amount of education benefits available to veterans and the budget for the U.S. Department of Defense in connection with the current federal budget issues. A material decrease to the funding of military education benefit programs would have a materially adverse effect on our ability to comply with the 90/10 Rule. If any of our institutions violates the 90/10 Rule, its ineligibility to participate in Title IV programs for at least two years would have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues and results of operations. Our failure to comply with various state regulations or to maintain any national, regional or programmatic accreditation could result in actions taken by those states or accrediting agencies that would have a material adverse effect on our student enrollment and results of operations. Each of our U.S. campuses, including our campuses that provide online programs, is authorized to offer education programs and grant degrees or diplomas by the state in which such school is physically located. The level of regulatory oversight varies substantially from state to state. In some U.S. states, the schools are subject to licensure by the state education agency and also by a separate higher education agency. Some states have sought to assert jurisdiction over online educational institutions that offer educational services to residents in the state or that advertise or recruit in the state, notwithstanding the lack of a physical location in the state. State laws may establish standards for instruction, qualifications of faculty, location and nature of facilities, financial policies and responsibility and other operational matters. State laws and regulations may limit our ability to obtain authorization to operate in certain states or to award degrees or diplomas or offer 42 Table of Contents new degree programs. Certain states prescribe standards of financial responsibility that are different from those prescribed by the U.S. Department of Education. In addition, each of our U.S. schools is accredited by a national or regional accreditation agency recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, and some educational programs are also programmatically accredited. The level of regulatory oversight and standards can vary based on the agency. Certain accreditation agencies prescribe standards that are different from those prescribed by the U.S. Department of Education. If we are found not to be in compliance with an applicable state regulation and a state seeks to restrict one or more of our business activities within its boundaries, we may not be able to recruit or enroll students in that state and may have to cease providing services and advertising in that state, which could have a material adverse effect on our student enrollment and revenues. If one of our schools does not meet its accreditation or applicable state requirements, its accreditation and/or state licensing could be limited, modified, suspended or terminated. Failure to maintain licensure in the state where it is physically located or institutional accreditation would make such school ineligible to participate in Title IV programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our student enrollment and revenues. Further, requirements for programs offered by our schools that are accredited by national accrediting agencies with respect to retention rates, graduation rates and employment placement rates may be more difficult to satisfy due to the current economic recession in the U.S. A number of our institutions have specialized programmatic accreditation for particular education programs. While these programmatic accreditations cannot be relied upon for our schools to obtain and maintain certification to participate in Title IV programs, they are commonly relied upon in the relevant professions as indicators of quality of the academic program. If programmatic accreditation is withdrawn or fails to be renewed for any of the individual programs at any of our schools, enrollment in such program could decline, which could have a material adverse impact on student enrollment and revenues at that school. As described above, the U.S. Department of Education’s final rules regarding state authorization require institutions that participate in Title IV programs to be authorized by name to offer post-secondary education by each state in which the institution is physically located. If an institution offers post-secondary education through distance education to students in a state in which the institution is not physically located, the institution must satisfy any requirements of that state for the institution to offer post-secondary distance education to students in that state. The inability of our students to participate in Title IV financing programs at one or more of our schools due to the failure to obtain required state authorizations or the failure of the state in which it is located to adopt rules that comply with the new regulations on authorization and oversight of post-secondary institutions would have a material adverse effect on our student population and revenue. National or regional accreditation agencies may prescribe more rigorous accreditation standards on our schools, which could have a material adverse effect on our student enrollment and revenues. Participation in Title IV programs requires that each of our U.S. schools be accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the U.S. Department of Education as a reliable authority on institutional quality and integrity. The accreditation standards of the national or regional accreditation agencies that accredit our schools can and do vary, and the accreditation agencies may prescribe more rigorous standards than are currently in place. On April 1, 2011, the Higher Learning Commission (“HLC”) of the North Central Association, which is the accrediting agency for all Argosy University campuses and several Art Institute and Brown Mackie campuses, released preliminary proposed revisions to its criteria for accreditation that would, among other things, prescribe more rigorous standards relating to student persistence and completion rates. Complying with more rigorous accreditation standards could require significant changes to the way we operate our business and increase our administrative and other costs. No assurances can be given that our schools will be able to comply with more rigorous accreditation standards in a timely manner or at all. If one of our schools does not meet its accreditation requirements, its accreditation could be limited, modified, suspended or terminated. Failure to maintain accreditation would make such school ineligible to participate in Title IV programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our student enrollment and revenues. Further, requirements for programs offered by our schools that are accredited by national accrediting agencies with respect to retention rates, graduation rates and employment placement rates may be more difficult to satisfy if more rigorous standards are adopted. If programmatic accreditation is withdrawn or fails to be renewed for any of the individual programs at any of our schools, enrollment in such program could decline, which could have a material adverse impact on student enrollment and revenues at that school. Loss of or reductions in state financial aid programs for our students could negatively impact our revenues from students. In fiscal 2011, approximately 2% of our net revenues were indirectly derived from state financial aid programs. State grant programs are generally subject to annual appropriation by the state legislature, which may lead to the state’s eliminating or significantly decreasing the amount of state aid to students at our schools. Recently several states in which we have 43 Table of Contents schools have substantially decreased or eliminated the amount of grants available to students who attend for-profit post secondary institutions. The loss of access to these state grants by our students could have a material adverse effect on our business due to enrollment losses at our schools. If regulators do not approve transactions involving a change of control or change in our corporate structure, we may lose our ability to participate in federal student financial aid programs, which would result in declines in our student enrollment, and thereby adversely affect our results of operations. If we or one of our schools experiences a change of ownership or control under the standards of applicable state agencies, accrediting agencies or the U.S. Department of Education, we or the schools governed by such agencies must seek the approval of the relevant agencies. Transactions or events that could constitute a change of control include significant acquisitions or dispositions of shares of our stock, internal restructurings, acquisition of schools from other owners, significant changes in the composition of a school’s board of directors or certain other transactions or events, several of which are beyond our control. The failure of any of our schools to reestablish its state authorization, accreditation or U.S. Department of Education certification following a transaction involving a change of ownership or control would result in a suspension of operating authority or suspension or loss of federal student financial aid funding, which could have a material adverse effect on our student population and revenue. Further, such a change of ownership or control could result in the imposition of growth restrictions on our schools, including limitations on our ability to open new campuses or initiate new educational programs. Restrictions on growth such as these could have a material adverse impact on our student population and revenue and future growth plans. The potential adverse effects of a change of control also could influence future decisions by us and our shareholders regarding the sale, purchase, transfer, issuance or redemption of our stock, which could discourage bids for your shares of our common stock and could have an adverse effect on the market price of your shares. Government and regulatory and accrediting agencies may conduct compliance reviews, bring claims or initiate litigation against us, which may adversely impact our licensing or accreditation status, and thereby adversely affect our results of operations. From time to time, we may be subject to program reviews, audits, investigations, claims of non-compliance or lawsuits by governmental or accrediting agencies or third parties, which may allege statutory violations, regulatory infractions or common law causes of action. For example, we are the subject of a qui tam action filed under the federal False Claims Act in which the U.S. Department of Justice and four states have intervened under their respective False Claims Acts related to our compliance with the U.S. Department of Education’s prior incentive compensation rule, and are the subject of a subpoena from the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Education requesting documents related to satisfactory academic progress standards and state licensing of fully online programs offered by South University and The Art Institute of Pittsburgh. See “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings.” The U.S. Department of Education performed five program reviews of our institutions in fiscal 2011 and have notified us that they plan to perform two additional program reviews in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. We are currently waiting for the final reports from four program reviews performed by the U.S. Department of Education in fiscal 2011. The U.S. Department of Education may also take emergency action to suspend any of our schools’ certification without advance notice if it receives reliable information that a school is violating Title IV requirements and determines that immediate action is necessary to prevent misuse of Title IV funds. If the results of any such proceedings are unfavorable to us, we may lose or have limitations imposed on our accreditation, state licensing, state grant or Title IV program participation, be required to pay monetary damages or be subject to fines, penalties, injunctions or other censure that could materially and adversely affect our business. We also may be limited in our ability to open new schools or add new program offerings and may be adversely impacted by the negative publicity surrounding an investigation or lawsuit. Even if we adequately address the issues raised by an agency review or investigation or successfully defend a third-party lawsuit, we may suffer interruptions in cash flows due to, among other things, transfer from the advance funding to the “reimbursement” or “heightened cash monitoring” method of Title IV program funding, and we may have to devote significant money and management resources to address these issues, which could harm our business. Additionally, we may experience adverse collateral consequences, including declines in the number of students enrolling at our schools and the willingness of third parties to deal with us or our schools, as a result of any negative publicity associated with such reviews, claims or litigation. Our regulatory environment and our reputation may be negatively influenced by the actions of other post-secondary education institutions and the current media environment. In recent years, there have been a number of regulatory investigations and civil litigation matters targeting post-secondary education institutions. For example, the HELP Committee held a series of hearings on the for-profit education sector throughout 2010 and 2011 relating to student recruiting, accreditation matters, student debt, student success and outcomes, and other matters. Additionally, in July 2011 the Attorney General of Kentucky announced a national bipartisan effort including 19 states to examine potential abuses in the for-profit education industry. Private parties have recently filed a number of significant lawsuits against post-secondary institutions alleging wrongdoing, including the misstatement of graduate job placement rates. The HELP Committee hearings, along with other recent investigations and lawsuits, have included allegation of, among other things, deceptive trade practices, false claims against the United States and non-compliance with state and U.S. Department of Education regulations. These allegations have attracted significant adverse media coverage. The intervention by the U.S. Department of Justice and four states in a qui tam case involving our alleged violation of the U.S. Department of Education’s prior incentive compensation rules has drawn significant media attention. 44 Table of Contents Allegations against the post-secondary education sectors may impact general public perceptions of educational institutions, including us, in a negative manner. Adverse media coverage regarding other educational institutions or regarding us directly could damage our reputation, reduce student demand for our programs, adversely impact our revenues and operating profit or result in increased regulatory scrutiny. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS If our students were unable to obtain private loans from third party lenders, our business could be adversely affected given our reliance on such lenders as a source of net revenues. The education finance industry has been experiencing and may continue to experience problems that have resulted in fewer overall financing options for some of our students. Factors that could impact the general availability of loans to our students include: • changes in overall economic conditions or overall uncertainty or disruption in capital markets, in either case causing lenders to cease making student loans, limit the volume or types of loans made or impose more stringent eligibility or underwriting standards; • the financial condition and continued financial viability of student loan providers; • changes in applicable laws or regulations, such as provisions of the recently-enacted HEA reauthorization that impose new disclosure and certification requirements with respect to private educational loans, that could have the effect of reducing the availability of education financing, including as a result of any lenders choosing to provide fewer loans or to stop providing loans altogether in light of increased regulation, or which could increase the costs of student loans; and • determinations by lenders to reduce the number of loans, or to cease making loans altogether, to students attending or planning to attend certain types of schools, particularly for-profit institutions. During fiscal 2011, revenues derived indirectly from private loans to students at our schools, excluding loans under our former Education Finance Loan program, represented approximately 3.2% of our net revenues, as compared to approximately 4.5% and 13.0% of our net revenues in fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. These loans are provided pursuant to private loan programs and are made available to eligible students at our schools to fund a portion of the students’ costs of education not covered by federal and state financial aid grants due to increases in tuition and the cost of living. Private loans are made to our students by institutions and are non-recourse to us and our schools. Approximately 75% of the private loans in fiscal 2011 were offered and serviced by two lenders. During the last two fiscal years, adverse market conditions for consumer student loans have resulted in providers of private loans reducing the attractiveness and/or decreasing the availability of private loans to post-secondary students, including students with low credit scores who would not otherwise be eligible for credit-based private loans. We also terminated our Education Finance Loan program during fiscal 2011, which represented approximately 0.5% and 2.6% of our net revenues in fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Education Finance Loan program enabled students who had exhausted all available government-sponsored or other aid and have been denied a private loan to borrow a portion of their tuition and other educational expenses at our schools not covered by other financial aid sources if they or a co-borrower met certain eligibility and underwriting criteria. The consumer credit markets in the United States have recently suffered from increases in default rates and foreclosures on mortgages, which has resulted in fewer providers of student loans. Providers of federally guaranteed student loans and alternative or private student loans have also experienced recent increases in default rates. Adverse market conditions for consumer loans have resulted in providers of private loans reducing the attractiveness and/or decreasing the availability of private loans to post-secondary students, including students with low credit scores who would not otherwise be eligible for credit-based private loans. Prospective students may find that these increased financing costs make borrowing prohibitively expensive and abandon or delay enrollment in post-secondary education programs. Certain private lenders have also required that we pay them new or increased fees in order to provide private loans to prospective students. While we are taking steps to address the private loan needs of our students, the inability of our students to finance their education could cause our student population to decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 45 Table of Contents Our business may be adversely affected by a general economic slowdown or recession in the U.S. or abroad. The U.S. and other industrialized countries currently are experiencing reduced economic activity, increased unemployment, substantial uncertainty about their financial services markets and, in some cases, economic recession. In addition, homeowners in the United States have experienced a significant reduction in wealth due to the decline in residential real estate values across much of the country. These events may reduce the demand for our programs among students, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. These adverse economic developments also may result in a reduction in the number of jobs available to our graduates and lower salaries being offered in connection with available employment, which, in turn, may result in declines in our placement and persistence rates. In addition, these events could adversely affect the ability or willingness of our former students to repay student loans, which could increase our student loan cohort default rate and require increased time, attention and resources to manage these defaults. Further, the inability of students to pay their tuition and fees in cash has, along with other factors, resulted in a significant increase to our 90/10 rate. We may recognize impairment charges which could adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. We evaluate property and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment on at least an annual basis. We recognize an impairment charge if the carrying value of our property and equipment, goodwill or other intangible assets exceed their estimated fair value. In assessing fair value, we rely primarily on a discounted cash flow analysis, as well as other generally accepted valuation methodologies. These analyses rely on the judgments and estimates of management, which involve inherent uncertainties. The estimated fair value of our property and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate, the effects of a general economic slowdown and other unanticipated events and circumstances. In particular, should the Company need to take additional actions not currently foreseen to comply with current or future regulations, the assumptions used to calculate the fair value of property and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets, including estimates of future revenues and cash flows, could be negatively affected and could result in an impairment of our property and equipment, goodwill or other intangible assets. If we are required to recognize an impairment charge, it would be recorded as an operating expense in the period in which the carrying value exceeds the fair value. As of June 30, 2011, we had approximately $3.7 billion of property and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets. While we currently believe that the fair value of our property and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets exceed their carrying value, changes in our estimates and assumptions regarding the future performance of our business could result in significant impairment charges, which may have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. The continued disruptions in the credit and equity markets worldwide may impede or prevent our access to the capital markets for additional funding to expand or operate our business and may affect the availability or cost of borrowing under our existing credit facilities. The credit and equity markets of both mature and developing economies have experienced extraordinary volatility, asset erosion and uncertainty during the last two years leading to governmental intervention in the banking sector in the United States and abroad on an unprecedented scale. Until these market disruptions diminish, we may not be able to access the capital markets to obtain funding needed to refinance our existing indebtedness or expand our business. In addition, changes in the capital or other legal requirements applicable to commercial lenders may affect the availability or increase the cost of borrowing under our senior secured credit facilities. If we cannot refinance or repay our 8 3/4% senior notes due 2014 (the “Senior Notes”) prior to March 2014, the term loan will become due and payable at that time. If we are unable to obtain needed capital on terms acceptable to us, we may have to limit our growth initiatives or take other actions that materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows We may have difficulty opening additional new schools and growing our online academic programs, and we may be unable to achieve the anticipated return on our investment. We anticipate continuing to open new schools in the future. Establishing new schools poses unique challenges and requires us to make investments in management, capital expenditures, marketing expenses and other resources. When opening a new school, we are required to obtain appropriate state or provincial and accrediting agency approvals. In addition, to be eligible for federal student financial aid programs, a school has to be certified by the U.S. Department of Education. 46 Table of Contents Further, our debt agreements include limitations on the amount of capital expenditures we may make on an annual basis. Our failure to effectively manage the operations of newly established schools or service areas, or any diversion of management’s attention from our core school operating activities, could harm our business. We anticipate future growth from online courses we offer to students. As of June 30, 2011, we offer fully online programs at The Art Institute of Pittsburgh, Argosy University and South University. We plan to continue to introduce new online programs at these schools in the future. The success of any new online programs and classes depends in part on our ability to expand the content of our programs, develop new programs in a cost-effective manner and meet the needs of our students in a timely manner. The expansion of our existing online programs, the creation of new online classes and the development of new fully online programs may not be accepted by students or the online education market for many reasons, including as a result of the expected increased competition in the online education market or because of any problems with the performance or reliability of our online program infrastructure. In addition, a general decline in Internet use for any reason, including due to security or privacy concerns, the cost of Internet service or changes in government regulation of Internet use may result in less demand for online educational services, in which case we may not be able to grow our online programs as planned. We may not be able to implement our growth strategy optimally if we are not able to improve the content of our existing academic programs or to develop new programs on a timely basis and in a cost-effective manner. We continually seek to improve the content of our existing academic programs and develop new programs in order to meet changing market needs. Revisions to our existing academic programs and the development of new programs may not be accepted by existing or prospective students or employers in all instances. If we cannot respond effectively to market changes, our business may be adversely affected. Even if we are able to develop acceptable new programs, we may not be able to introduce these new programs as quickly as students require or as quickly as our competitors are able to introduce competing programs. Our efforts to introduce a new academic program may be conditioned or delayed by requirements to obtain federal, state and accrediting agency approvals. The development of new programs and classes, both conventional and online, is subject to requirements and limitations imposed by the U.S. Department of Education, state licensing agencies and the relevant accrediting bodies. The imposition of restrictions on the initiation of new educational programs by any of our regulatory agencies may delay such expansion plans. If we do not respond adequately to changes in market requirements, our ability to attract and retain students could be impaired and our financial results could suffer. Establishing new academic programs or modifying existing academic programs also may require us to make investments in specialized personnel and capital expenditures, increase marketing efforts and reallocate resources away from other uses. We may have limited experience with the subject matter of new programs and may need to modify our systems and strategy. If we are unable to increase the number of students, offer new programs in a cost-effective manner or otherwise manage effectively the operations of newly established academic programs, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our marketing programs may not be effective in attracting prospective students, current students or potential employers of our graduates. In order to maintain and increase our revenues and margins, we must continue to attract new students in a cost-effective manner. Over the last several fiscal years, we have increased the amounts spent on marketing and advertising, and we anticipate that this trend will continue. If we are unable to successfully advertise and market our schools and programs, our ability to attract and enroll new students could be adversely impacted and, consequently, our financial performance could suffer. We use marketing tools such as the Internet, radio, television and print media advertising to promote our schools and programs. Our representatives also make presentations at high schools. If we are unable to utilize these advertising methods in a cost-effective manner or if our other costs limit the amount of funds we can contribute to advertising, our profitability and revenue may suffer. Additionally, we rely on the general reputation of our schools and referrals from current students, alumni and employers as a source of new students. Among the factors that could prevent us from successfully marketing and advertising our schools and programs are the failure of our marketing tools and strategy to appeal to prospective students or current student and/or employer dissatisfaction with our program offerings or results and diminished access to high school campuses. 47 Table of Contents A decline in the overall growth of enrollment in post-secondary institutions could cause us to experience lower enrollment at our schools, which would negatively impact our future growth. According to the U.S. Department of Education, enrollment in degree-granting, post-secondary institutions is projected to grow 9.7% over the ten-year period ending in the fall of 2019 to approximately 22.4 million students. This growth compares with a 38.1% increase reported in the prior ten-year period ended in 2009, when enrollment increased from 14.8 million students in 1999 to 20.4 million students in 2009. While enrollment growth in the ten-year period ended 2009 was accompanied by a 16.7% increase in high school graduates from 2.8 million students in 1999 to 3.3 million students in 2009, the U.S. Department of Education is not projecting any growth in the number of high school graduates through 2019. Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt. The following chart shows our level of consolidated indebtedness at June 30, 2011 (in millions): Revolving credit facility $ 79.0 Senior secured term loan facility, due 2013 350.5 Senior secured term loan facility, due 2016 752.6 Senior notes due 2014 at 8.75% 375.0 Other 0.8 Total $ 1,557.9 Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: • making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness; • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • requiring a substantial portion of cash flows from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flows to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; • increasing the likelihood of our not satisfying, on a consolidated basis, the U.S. Department of Education’s annual responsibility requirements and subjecting us to letter of credit and provisional certification requirements for the foreseeable future; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities, will bear interest at variable rates; • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, program development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged. In addition, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the Senior Notes. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. 48 Table of Contents We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our debt obligations and may be forced to take other actions in an effort to satisfy our obligations under such indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our indebtedness, or to refinance our obligations under our debt agreements on acceptable terms, if at all, will depend on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to the financial and business risk factors described in this Form 10-K, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay the opening of new schools, acquisitions or capital expenditures, sell assets, seek to obtain additional equity capital or restructure our indebtedness. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, if at all, particularly because of our high levels of debt and the debt incurrence restrictions imposed by the agreements governing our debt. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing our Senior Notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit certain of our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; • pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of capital stock or make other restricted payments; • make certain investments, including capital expenditures; • sell certain assets; • create liens; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • enter into certain transactions with affiliates. In addition, under our senior secured credit agreement, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios and other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet those ratios and tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the senior secured credit agreement. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the senior secured credit agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit agreement immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. Certain of our subsidiaries have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under the senior secured credit agreement. If the lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets to repay our indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities, as well as our unsecured indebtedness. Failure to keep pace with changing market needs and technology could harm our ability to attract students. The success of our schools depends to a large extent on the willingness of prospective employers to employ our students upon graduation. Increasingly, employers demand that their new employees possess appropriate technological skills and also appropriate “soft” skills, such as communication, critical thinking and teamwork skills. These skills can evolve rapidly in a changing economic and technological environment. Accordingly, it is important that our educational programs evolve in response to those economic and technological changes. The expansion of existing academic programs and the development of new programs may not be accepted by current or prospective students or the employers of our graduates. Even if our schools are able to develop acceptable new programs, our schools may not be able to begin offering those new programs as quickly as required by prospective employers or as quickly as our competitors offer similar programs. If we are unable to adequately respond to changes in market requirements due to regulatory or financial constraints, unusually rapid technological changes or other factors, our ability to attract and retain students could be impaired, the rates at which our graduates obtain jobs involving their fields of study could suffer and our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. 49 Table of Contents Failure to obtain additional capital in the future could adversely affect our ability to grow. We believe that funds from operations, cash, investments and borrowings under our revolving credit facility will be adequate to fund our current operating plans for the foreseeable future. However, we may need additional debt or equity financing in order to finance our continued growth. The amount and timing of such additional financing will vary principally depending on the timing and size of acquisitions and new school openings, the willingness of sellers to provide financing for future acquisitions and the amount of cash flows from our operations. We are required by the U.S. Department of Education to post a letter of credit equal to 15% of the Title IV program funds received by students at our schools during fiscal 2010, or $361.5 million. Outstanding letters of credit reduce the availability under our revolving credit facility. In the future, we may not have sufficient letter of credit capacity to satisfy the letter of credit requirement for the U.S. Department of Education, which would limit our growth and potentially subject us to operating restrictions. Further, to the extent that we require additional financing in the future and are unable to obtain such additional financing, we may not be able to fully implement our growth strategy. Failure to effectively manage our growth could harm our business. Our business recently has experienced rapid growth. Growth and expansion of our operations may place a significant strain on our resources and increase demands on our management information and reporting systems, financial management controls and personnel. We may not be able to maintain or accelerate our current growth rate, effectively manage our expanding operations or achieve planned growth on a timely or profitable basis. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may experience operating inefficiencies and our net income may be materially adversely affected. Capacity constraints or system disruptions to our online computer networks could have a material adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain students. The performance and reliability of the program infrastructure of our schools’ online operations is critical to the reputation of these campuses and our ability to attract and retain students. Any computer system error or failure, or a sudden and significant increase in traffic on our computer networks that host our schools’ online operations, may result in the unavailability of our schools’ online operations’ computer networks. In addition, any significant failure of our computer networks could disrupt our on campus operations. Individual, sustained or repeated occurrences could significantly damage the reputation of our schools’ online operations and result in a loss of potential or existing students. Additionally, our schools’ online computer systems and operations are vulnerable to interruption or malfunction due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters and network and telecommunications failures. Any interruption to our schools’ online computer systems or operations could have a material adverse effect on the ability of our schools’ online operations to attract and retain students. The personal information that we collect may be vulnerable to breach, theft or loss that could adversely affect our reputation and operations. Possession and use of personal information in our operations subjects us to risks and costs that could harm our business. Our schools collect, use and retain large amounts of personal information regarding our students and their families, including social security numbers, tax return information, personal and family financial data and credit card numbers. We also collect and maintain personal information of our employees in the ordinary course of our business. Our computer networks and the networks of certain of our vendors that hold and manage confidential information on our behalf may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security threats. Confidential information also may become available to third parties inadvertently when we integrate or convert computer networks into our network following an acquisition of a school or in connection with upgrades from time to time. Due to the sensitive nature of the information contained on our networks, such as students’ grades, our networks may be targeted by hackers. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. Although we use security and business controls to limit access and use of personal information, a third party may be able to circumvent those security and business controls, which could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. In addition, errors in the storage, use or transmission of personal information could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. Possession and use of personal information in our operations also subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that could require notification of data breaches and restrict our use of personal information. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. A major breach, theft or loss of personal information regarding our students and their families or our employees that is held by us or our vendors could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and results of operations and result in further regulation and oversight by federal and state authorities and increased costs of compliance. 50 Table of Contents We may not be able to retain our key personnel or hire and retain additional personnel needed for us to sustain and grow our business as planned. Our success depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified faculty, school presidents and administrators and corporate management. We may have difficulty locating and hiring qualified personnel, and retaining such personnel once hired. In addition, key personnel may leave and subsequently compete against us. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, many of whom are not party to employment agreements with us, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms could impair our ability to successfully sustain and grow our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we are not able to integrate acquired schools, we may experience operational inefficiencies. From time to time, we engage in acquisitions of schools. Integrating acquired operations into our institutions involves significant risks and uncertainties, including: • inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures; • distraction of management’s attention from normal business operations during the integration process; • expenses associated with the integration efforts; and • unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence process, including legal contingencies. Our inability to operate one or more of our schools or locations due to a natural disaster, terrorist act or widespread epidemic or to restore a damaged school or location to its prior operational level could materially hurt our operating results. A number of our schools are located in Florida and elsewhere in the southeastern United States in areas prone to hurricane damage, which may be substantial. We also have a number of schools located in California in areas vulnerable to earthquakes. One or more of these schools may be unable to operate for an extended period of time in the event of a hurricane, earthquake or other natural disaster which does substantial damage to the area in which a school is located. In addition, we may not be in a position to devote sufficient resources to a damaged school in order for it to re-open in a timely fashion or at the same level of operation as existed prior to the damage. Further, a regional or national outbreak of influenza or other illness easily spread by human contact could cause us to close one or more of our schools for an extended period of time. The failure of one or more of our schools to operate for a substantial period of time could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have a significant concentration of admissions representatives for our fully online schools in two geographically separate locations. A natural disaster or terrorist act which affected one of these locations could result in our inability to contact prospective students for our fully online programs for an extended period of time, which would result in a significantly lower number of new students enrolling in our programs. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and competitors with greater resources could harm our business. The post-secondary education market is highly fragmented and competitive. Our schools compete for students with traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges and universities and other for-profit providers, including those that offer online learning programs. Many public and private colleges and universities, as well as other for-profit providers, offer programs similar to those we offer. We expect to experience additional competition in the future as more colleges, universities and for-profit providers offer an increasing number of online programs. Public institutions receive substantial government subsidies, and public and private institutions have access to government and foundation grants, tax-deductible contributions and other financial resources generally not available to for-profit providers. Accordingly, public and private institutions may have instructional and support resources superior to those in the for-profit sector, and public institutions can offer substantially lower tuition prices. Some of our competitors in both the public and private sectors also have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. 51 Table of Contents We could experience an event of default under our senior secured credit agreement if the Sponsors cease to own an aggregate of at least 35% of the voting interests of our outstanding capital stock, and such an event of default could adversely effect our liquidity and financial position. Under the current terms of our senior secured credit agreement, an event of default would occur if the Sponsors cease to own, collectively, at least 35% of the voting interests of our outstanding capital stock on a fully diluted basis. This event of default could be triggered during the term of the senior secured credit agreement either by future sales or transfers of our capital stock by any of the Sponsors or by additional issuances of voting capital stock by us. As of June 30, 2011, the Sponsors owned, in the aggregate, approximately 76.1% of the voting interests of our outstanding capital stock of the voting interests of our outstanding capital stock on a fully diluted basis. Because we cannot control when future transactions by any of the Sponsors will occur, we cannot assure you that one or more Sponsors will not engage in transactions that trigger an event of default under the current terms of our senior secured credit agreement, or that we will be able to amend this provision of our senior secured credit agreement prior to any such sale or transfer. If an event of default occurs as a result of a future sale or transfer by any of the Sponsors, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit agreement to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. It is possible that we would not be in a position at that time to refinance the amounts due under the senior secured credit agreement on economical terms, or at all, or repay the amounts due to the lenders, and the lenders then could proceed against the collateral securing our indebtedness. If we expand in the future into new markets outside the United States, we would be subject to risks inherent in non-domestic operations. If we acquire or establish schools in new markets outside the United States, we will face risks that are inherent in non-domestic operations, including the complexity of operations across borders, currency exchange rate fluctuations, monetary policy risks, such as inflation, hyperinflation and deflation, and potential political and economic instability in the countries into which we expand. Private equity funds affiliated with the Sponsors own the majority of our voting stock, which, if they act together, allows them to control substantially all matters requiring shareholder approval. Private equity funds affiliated with Providence Equity Partners, Goldman Sachs Capital Partners and Leeds Equity Partners beneficially owned approximately 31.5%, 41.8% and 7.6%, respectively, of our outstanding common stock at June 30, 2011. In addition, pursuant to a Shareholders Agreement entered into among the Sponsors and certain of our shareholders, five of our ten directors are representatives of the private equity funds affiliated with the Sponsors. Certain private equity funds affiliated with Providence Equity Partners and certain private equity funds affiliated with Goldman Sachs Capital Partners each have the right to appoint two directors if such Sponsor owns 10% or more of our common stock and each of the Sponsors have the right to appoint one director if such Sponsor owns 2% or more of our common stock. As a result, these private equity funds, should they vote their respective shares in concert with each other, have significant influence over our decision to enter into any corporate transaction and have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of shareholders, regardless of whether or not other shareholders believe that such transaction is in their own best interests. Such concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control or other business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to our shareholders. Additionally, the Sponsors are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. One or more of the Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. As long as private equity funds affiliated with the Sponsors collectively continue to own, directly or indirectly, a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock, the Sponsors will collectively continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. 52 Table of Contents We qualify for and avail ourselves of exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements for companies whose stock is quoted on The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (“Nasdaq”) that provide protection to shareholders of other companies. The parties to the Shareholders Agreement collectively will own more than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock, and we therefore use certain “controlled company” exemptions under Nasdaq’s corporate governance listing standards that free us from the obligation to comply with certain Nasdaq corporate governance requirements, including the requirements: • that a majority of our Board of Directors consists of independent directors; • that the compensation of executive officers be determined, or recommended to our Board of Directors for determination, either by (a) a majority of the independent directors or (b) a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors; and • that director nominees be selected, or recommended for our Board of Directors’ selection, either by (a) a majority of the independent directors or (b) a nominations committee comprised solely of independent directors. As a result of our use of these exemptions, owners of our common stock do not have the same protection afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of Nasdaq’s corporate governance requirements. In the event that we cease to be eligible to utilize “controlled company” exemptions under Nasdaq’s corporate governance listing standards, we will have a transitionary period during which we must achieve compliance with the requirements described above. Provisions in our charter documents and the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us and could discourage a takeover and adversely affect existing shareholders. Provisions in our charter documents could discourage potential acquisition proposals or make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Company, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws provide for various procedural and other requirements that could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, our articles of incorporation authorize our Board of Directors to issue up to 20.0 million shares of preferred stock and to determine the powers, preferences, privileges, rights, including voting rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions on those shares, without any further vote or action by our shareholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock are subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Additional provisions that could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect certain corporate actions include the following: • our articles of incorporation prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors; • once the private equity funds affiliated with the Sponsors and certain of our other institutional investors collectively cease to beneficially own 50% or more of our outstanding common stock, our articles of incorporation and bylaws will not (i) permit shareholder action without a meeting by consent, except for unanimous written consent, (ii) permit shareholders to call or to require the Board of Directors to call a special meeting or (iii) permit shareholder removal of directors without assigning any cause; and • our bylaws provide that shareholders seeking to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must comply with advance notice procedures. Our shareholders may remove directors only for cause; provided, that as long as our shareholders have the right to act by partial written consent, directors may be removed from office by partial written consent without assigning any cause. These and other provisions of the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law (the “PBCL”) and our articles of incorporation and bylaws may discourage acquisition proposals, make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding common stock or delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer or proxy contest, which may negatively affect our stock price. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, investors’ only opportunity to achieve a return on their investment is if the price of our common stock appreciates. We currently do not expect to pay dividends on shares of our common stock. The terms of our senior secured credit facilities or indenture limits our ability to pay cash dividends in certain circumstances. Furthermore, if we are in default under our credit facilities or indenture, our ability to pay cash dividends will be limited in certain circumstances in the absence of a waiver of that default or an amendment to the facilities or indenture. In addition, because we are a holding company, our 53 Table of Contents ability to pay cash dividends on shares of our common stock may be limited by restrictions on our ability to obtain sufficient funds through dividends from our subsidiaries, including the restrictions under our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture for the Senior Notes. Subject to these restrictions, the payment of cash dividends in the future, if any, will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon such factors as earnings levels, capital requirements, our overall financial condition and any other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Consequently, the only opportunity for investors to achieve a return on their investment in the Company is if the market price of our common stock appreciates. We rely on dividends, distributions and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from our operating subsidiaries to meet our debt service and other obligations. We conduct all of our operations through certain of our subsidiaries, and at June 30, 2011 we had no significant assets other than cash of approximately $50.1 million and the capital stock of our respective subsidiaries. As a result, we will rely on dividends and other payments or distributions from our operating subsidiaries to meet any existing or future debt service and other obligations. The ability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends or to make distributions or other payments to their parent companies will depend on their respective operating results and may be restricted by, among other things, the laws of their respective jurisdictions of organization, regulatory requirements, agreements entered into by those operating subsidiaries and the covenants of any existing or future outstanding indebtedness that we or our subsidiaries may occur. For example, our senior secured credit agreement and the indenture governing the Senior Notes contain certain restrictions on our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends and to make distributions. We experience seasonal fluctuations in our results of operations which may result in similar fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock. Historically, our quarterly revenues and income have fluctuated primarily as a result of the pattern of student enrollments at our schools. The number of students enrolled at our schools typically is greatest in the second quarter of our fiscal year, when the largest number of recent high school and college graduates typically begin post-secondary education programs. Student vacations generally cause our student enrollments to be at their lowest during our first fiscal quarter. Because a significant portion of our expenses do not vary proportionately with the fluctuations in our revenue, our results in a particular fiscal quarter may not indicate accurately the results we will achieve in a subsequent quarter or for the full fiscal year. These fluctuations in our operating results may result in corresponding volatility in the market price for our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 