Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following is a discussion of certain risks that may affect our business. These risks may negatively impact our existing business, future business opportunities, our financial condition or our financial results. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could also decline. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently see as immaterial, may also negatively impact our business. We need to increase our revenues in order to become profitable under our present cost structure. We have experienced net losses in nine of our last ten years. These losses result primarily from declining sales of our skin care products and our primary household products. Maintaining or increasing our revenues is uncertain and involves a number of factors including consumer acceptance of our products, distribution of our products and other matters described below. Our cash flow is dependent upon operating cash flow, available cash and borrowing available under the Summit Financial Resources financing agreement. Because we are dependent on our operating cash flow, any loss of a significant customer, any further decreases in the distribution of our skin care or household products, new competitive products affecting sales levels of our products or any significant expense not included in our internal budget could result in the need to raise cash. The financing agreement with Summit Financial Resources has a term of one year ending March 12, 2010 and which automatically renews for successive one year terms unless either party provides written notice of non-renewal at least 60 days prior to the end of a one-year financing period. Neither party sent such a notice of non-renewal, and therefore the term of the financing agreement has automatically been extended to March 12, 2011. Except for the existing bank debt and the Summit Financial Resources agreement, we have no arrangements for an external financing of debt or equity, and we are not certain whether any such financing would be available on acceptable terms. We have a negative cash flow after taking into account payments of principal and interest on our long-term bank loan. In order to improve our operating cash flow, we need to achieve profitability, and/or further change our costs. 10 Table of Contents Sale or lease of our real estate is uncertain. We continue to pursue a sale or lease of all or part of our real estate. The purpose of a sale would be to reduce our fixed costs and to repay bank debt of approximately $4.35 million at December 31, 2009 secured by the real estate. Our ability to complete a sale of the real estate is uncertain and may have been affected by a downturn in the commercial real estate market in the Denver, Colorado area. The purpose of any leases would be to provide additional cash flow for operations and/or to service the aforementioned bank debt. Effective November 1, 2009, we signed (as lessor) a five-year lease with an unrelated, third party for a full-floor of our office building. Current economic conditions may materially and adversely impact our business. The turmoil in the investment market of the United States, the tightening of credit and relatively high level of unemployment in the United States have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and possibly a reduction in business activity generally. A continuation of these conditions could have, among other things, the following potential negative effects: A reduction in spending of consumers in general including in the area of household products and skin care products, which could reduce our net sales; the potential increase in bad debts or reserve for bad debts affecting our financial condition or cash flow; and exposure to any increased interest expense to the extent that any financing or refinancing could be at costs higher than our existing debt. Sales of our existing products are affected by changing consumer preferences. Our primary market is retail stores in the United States which sell to consumers or end users in the mass market. Consumer preferences can change rapidly and are affected by new competitive products. This situation is true for both skin care and household products and has affected our established products, most significantly our earlier established Alpha Hydrox products. For example, in the skin care area, we believe that our products with AHAs are effective in diminishing fine lines and wrinkles, but consumers may change permanently or temporarily to other products using other technologies or otherwise viewed as “new.” Any changes in consumer preferences can materially affect the sales and distribution of our products and thereby our revenues and results of operations. In both skin care and household products, we compete every day against the largest consumer product companies in the United States. Our large competitors regularly introduce new products and spend considerably more than we do on advertising, particularly television advertising. The distribution of our product and sales can be adversely impacted by the actions of our competitors. We have limited resources to promote our products with effective advertising. We sell our products in the consumer retail marketplace. Advertising, particularly television advertising, can be important in reaching consumers, although the effectiveness of any particular advertisement cannot be predicted. 11 Table of Contents Maintaining or increasing our revenues is dependent on the introduction of new products that are successful in the marketplace. Sales of our Alpha Hydrox products, Scott’s Liquid Gold for wood and Touch of Scent have declined in recent years. In order to address these declines, we have introduced new products, including Montagne Jeunesse sachets in 2001, the wood wipe and wood wash products in 2004 and 2005, our new Alpha Hydrox products in 2005, a value priced Alpha Hydrox White line in 2007, “Mold Control 500” in 2006, air freshener products in 2007 and 2008, and in 2009 our product “Clean Screen”. We plan the introduction of at least one additional product. If we are not successful in making ongoing sales of our newer products to retail store chains or these products are not well received by consumers, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected. A loss of one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our product sales. For more than a majority of our sales, we are dependent upon sales to major customers, including Wal-Mart, which is our largest customer. The easy access of consumers to our products is dependent upon major retail stores and other retail stores carrying our products. The willingness of these customers (i.e., retail stores) to carry any of our products depends on various matters, including the level of sales of the product at the stores. Any declines in sales of a product to consumers can result in the loss of retail stores as our customers and the corresponding decreases in the distribution of the product. It is uncertain whether the consumer base served by these stores would purchase our products at other retail outlets. In the past, sales of our products have been affected by retail store chains which discontinue a product or carry the product in a lesser number of stores. A significant part of our sales of skin care products are represented by the Montagne Jeunesse products which depend upon the continuation of our distributorship agreement with Montagne Jeunesse. Our distributorship agreement with Montagne Jeunesse is for a period of 18 months that ended in November, 2006 and continues in force after this initial term subject to the right of either party to terminate the agreement with three or six months notice. As a practical matter, we also believe that the distribution of Montagne Jeunesse sachets is dependent upon our good relationship with Montagne Jeunesse. We face the risk that raw materials for our products may not be available or that costs for these materials will increase, thereby affecting either our ability to manufacture the products or our gross margin on the products. We obtain our raw materials from third party suppliers, some of which are sole source suppliers. While there are two suppliers of glycolic acid, we use one supplier. We have no long term contracts with our suppliers; and, if a contract exists, it is subject to termination or cost increases. We may not have sufficient raw materials for production of products manufactured by us if there is a shortage in raw materials or one of our suppliers terminates our relationship. In addition, changing suppliers could involve delays that restrict our ability to manufacture or buy products in a timely manner to meet delivery requirements of our customers. Our suppliers of products which we distribute can also be subject to the same risk with their vendors. 12 Table of Contents Our sales are affected adversely by returns. In our industry, retail customers may be given authorization by the Company to return products. These returns result in refunds, a reduction of our revenues and usually the need to dispose of the resulting inventory at discounted prices. Accordingly, the level of returns can significantly impact our revenues and cash flow. See information about returns in Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in this Report and “Results of Operations” in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Changes in the regulation of our products, including environmental regulations, could have an adverse effect on the distribution, cost or function of our products. Regulations affecting our products include requirements of the FDA for cosmetic products and environmental regulations affecting emissions from our products. The FDA has mentioned in the past the treatment of AHA products as drugs, which could make more expensive or prohibitive our production and sale of certain Alpha Hydrox products. Also, in the past, we have changed the formulation of our household products to satisfy environmental regulations and will continue to do so as required. Any adverse developments in litigation could have a material impact on us. We are subject to lawsuits from time to time in the ordinary course of business. While we expect those lawsuits not to have a material effect on us, an adverse development in any such lawsuit or the insurance coverage for a lawsuit could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and cash flow. Any loss of our key executives or other personnel could harm our business. Our success has depended on the experience and continued service of our executive officers and key employees. If we fail to retain these officers, our ability to continue our business and effectively compete may be substantially diminished. Because of our size, we must rely in many departments within our company on one or two managers; the loss of any one of those could slow our product development, production of a product, and sale and distribution of a product. Our stock price can be volatile and can decline substantially. Our stock is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. The volume of our stock varies but is relatively limited. As a result, any events affecting us can result in volatile movements in the price of our stock and can result in significant declines in the market price of our stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 13 Table of Contents 