ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risks comprise all the material risks of which we are aware; however, these risks and uncertainties may not be the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business or financial performance. If any of the events or developments described below actually occurred, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR HIGHLY REGULATED INDUSTRY Failure of our schools to comply with extensive regulations could result in monetary liabilities or assessments, restrictions on our operations, limitations on our growth or loss of external financial aid funding for our students. A majority of our net revenues are indirectly derived from federal student financial aid programs pursuant to Title IV of the HEA. Our participation in Title IV programs is subject to certification and oversight by the U.S. Department of Education and is further conditioned upon approvals granted by other agencies. Each of our schools also must obtain and maintain approval to enroll students, offer instruction and grant credentials from the state authorizing agency in the state in which the school is located. Such approval is also a precondition to the ability of our students to participate in Title IV programs. Participation in Title IV programs also requires each school to be accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the U.S. Department of Education as a reliable authority on institutional quality and integrity. Accreditation is, in turn, conditioned upon the maintenance of applicable state authorization. Our schools also must comply with the requirements of any loan guarantee agencies that guarantee certain federal student loans made to our schools’ students, the requirements of such state financial aid programs as may be available to our students and the requirements of specialized accrediting agencies which oversee educational quality in particular program areas. As a result, our schools are subject to extensive regulation and review by these agencies which cover virtually all phases of our operations. These regulations also affect our ability to acquire or open additional schools, add new educational programs, substantially change existing programs or change our corporate or ownership structure. The agencies that regulate our operations periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. See “Business — Accreditation”, “Business — Student Financial Assistance”, “Business — Federal Oversight of Title IV Programs”, “Business — State Authorization and Accreditation Agencies” and “Business — Canadian Regulation and Financial Aid”. If any of our schools were to violate or fail to meet any of these legal and regulatory requirements, we could suffer monetary liabilities or assessments, limitations on our operating activities, loss of accreditation, limitations on our ability to add new schools or offer new programs, termination of or limitations on the school’s ability to grant degrees and certificates, or limitations on or suspension or termination of the school’s eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs. A significant portion of our students rely on federal student financial aid funds to finance their education. We cannot predict with certainty how all of these requirements will be applied or interpreted by a regulatory body or whether each of our schools will be able to comply with all of the applicable requirements in the future. 34 Table of Contents If we fail to obtain periodic recertifications for our schools to participate in Title IV programs, or if our certifications are withdrawn by the U.S. Department of Education prior to the next scheduled recertification, students at the affected schools would no longer be able to receive Title IV program funds. Our schools are required to seek recertifications from the U.S. Department of Education periodically in order to participate in Title IV programs. The current provisional certifications of our schools expire as follows: five schools expire during fiscal 2011; 23 schools expire during fiscal 2012; and two schools expire during the first quarter of fiscal 2013. The U.S Department of Education typically performs a program review of all Title IV eligible institutions every six years. Two such reviews of our institutions were performed in fiscal 2010 and an additional review occurred in July 2010. We have not received a final report from the U.S. Departments of Education for two of these three reviews. We were recently notified by the U.S. Department of Education that it plans to perform two additional program reviews in September 2010. The U.S. Department of Education will also review our schools’ continued certifications in the event that we undergo a change of ownership and control pursuant to U.S. Department of Education regulations. In addition, the U.S. Department of Education may take emergency action to suspend any of our schools’ certification without advance notice if it receives reliable information that a school is violating Title IV requirements and determines that immediate action is necessary to prevent misuse of Title IV funds. If the U.S. Department of Education were to decide not to renew or to withdraw our certification to participate in Title IV programs at any time, our students no longer would be able to receive Title IV program funds, which would have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues and results of operations. The U.S. Department of Education has proposed a number of new regulations that, if adopted in their current form, would result in significant changes to the way we operate our business and increases to the administrative cost of complying with the regulations. The U.S. Department of Education published NPRMs in the Federal Register on June 18, 2010 and July 26, 2010. Pursuant to the NPRMs, the U.S. Department of Education proposes to amend the regulations for institutional eligibility under the HEA, its recognition of accrediting agencies and a number of federal student financial assistance programs, including the FFEL program, the Direct Loan program and the Pell program. The public comment period for the NPRM published June 18, 2010 expired on August 2, 2010 and the public comment period for the NPRM published July 26, 2010 will expire on September 9, 2010. The U.S. Department of Education is expected to publish new final regulations by November 1, 2010, in which case the new regulations would take effect on July 1, 2011. The NPRMs address 14 areas and, if promulgated as final regulations consistent with the NPRMs, would make significant changes to certain of the current regulatory requirements, including the following: • As more fully described in “Business — Federal Oversight of Title IV Programs”, eliminating the 12 “safe harbors” for types of activities and payment arrangements of certain persons and entities involved in student recruiting and other activities that an institution may carry out without violating the HEA’s prohibition on the payment of incentive compensation to these persons and entities. One of the safe harbors permits the payment of fixed compensation, such as a fixed annual salary or hourly wage, so long as the fixed compensation is not adjusted up or down more than twice during any 12-month period, and any adjustment to the fixed compensation is not based solely on the number of students recruited, admitted, enrolled or awarded financial aid. The proposed regulation would prohibit an institution from making salary adjustments or providing anything of value to any person or entity engaged in any student recruitment or admission activity or in making decisions regarding the awarding of Title IV program funds if the salary adjustment or thing of value is based directly or indirectly upon success in securing enrollments or the award of financial aid. • As more fully described in “Business — Federal Oversight of Title IV Programs”, defining “gainful employment” that would result in the ineligibility of programs where (i) students who attended the program have annual loan repayment rates on FFEL and Direct loans of less than 35%, and (ii) students who completed the program have an assumed debt-to-income ratio that is greater than 30% of their discretionary income and greater than 12% of their assumed average annual earnings. The proposed regulation would also impose growth restrictions and warning requirements and employer affirmation restrictions for programs that do not meet certain minimum debt-to-income ratios and FFEL/Direct loan repayment rates. • Revising the related definitions and provisions to expand the activities that constitute a substantial misrepresentation by an institution of the nature of its educational programs, its financial charges or the employability of its graduates. Under the proposed regulations, any false, erroneous, or misleading statement, or statement that has a capacity to mislead, that a representative of an institution or person or entity with whom the institution has an agreement makes directly or indirectly to any member of the public, an accrediting agency or a state licensing agency could constitute a misrepresentation by the institution. The proposed regulations also expand the type of statements and the manner in which statements can be made. The proposed regulations also expand the U.S. Department of Education’s ability to enforce their regulation by revocation or limitation of an institution’s eligibility to participate in the Title IV programs. 35 Table of Contents • As more fully described below, requiring states to legally authorize institutions through a state governmental agency or entity, subject institutions to adverse action by the state, and establish a process to review and act on complaints concerning institutions and enforce applicable state laws. • Limiting the percentage of a home institution’s program that could be provided by a host institution if the institutions have a common, for-profit parent. The preamble language to the proposed regulation states that, if the host institution delivers programs in a distinct format, such as distance education, the home institution’s accreditor must approve the mode of delivery. Some of our students take online courses at one of our three schools that offer fully online programs under an agreement between the two schools approved by the home institution’s accrediting agency even though the home institution does not have the capability or approval from its accrediting agency to offer online programs. We are unsure whether the new proposed regulation would limit students attending a home institution from taking online classes at a host institution we own. • Defining a “credit hour” and establishing the procedures that accrediting agencies must have in place to determine whether an institution’s assignment of a credit hour is acceptable. The changes proposed in the NPRMs, or other legislative action and regulatory actions, could increase our administrative costs and require us to adjust our practices in order for our schools to comply fully with Title IV program requirements. For example, the proposed change to regulations prohibiting the payment of incentive compensation to admissions representatives would require us to substantially revise our current compensation practices for our admissions representatives, which could have an adverse affect on our ability to recruit new students and result in our significantly increasing the number of employees who recruit students. If the final regulation is not revised, we may also be required to substantially revise the compensation programs for our executive officers and senior administrative staff at our schools, which currently include a bonus component based on the achievement of certain financial metrics and performance goals. The U.S. Department also has stated that it will not review individual schools’ compensation plans prior to their implementation. In addition, the broad scope of a number of the regulations such as the proposed definition of a substantial misrepresentation will increase our exposure to civil litigation by making it easier for individuals to file qui tam actions under the False Claims Act alleging a violation of the Title IV program regulations. The definition of “gainful employment” proposed by the U.S. Department of Education could result in our inability to offer a number of programs currently offered to students and substantially decrease the attractiveness of our programs to prospective students, which could reduce the number of students attending our schools and revenue, earnings and cash flows. The NPRM published by the U.S. Department of Education on July 26, 2010, if promulgated as final regulations consistent with the NPRM, would cause significant changes to our business by implementing a definition of the term “gainful employment”. Under the HEA, for-profit post-secondary institutions are required to prepare students for “gainful employment” in a recognized profession. The term “gainful employment” currently is not defined in the HEA and has not been previously defined by regulations adopted by the U.S. Department of Education. Under the NPRM, programs would be considered to lead to gainful employment based on two tests, one of which is based on total debt-to-income ratios and the other of which is based on Title IV loan repayment rates. Programs would be determined to be fully eligible, restricted or ineligible based on the results of the two tests. Additionally, programs would be required to warn students that they may have difficulty repaying loans incurred in connection with attending a program if certain minimum thresholds for both tests are not satisfied. The proposed regulations require a significant amount of data to determine whether a program is fully eligible, restricted or ineligible, some of which, such as student indebtedness, principal repayment rates and annual student earnings, is not currently available to us. Accordingly, we have been unable to project which of our programs would be ineligible, restricted or fully eligible under the proposed regulation due to the unavailability of data that is relevant to such determinations. Due to the unavailability of such data, no assurances can be given related to the number of our programs which would be restricted or ineligible under the regulation as currently proposed. The failure of a material number of our programs to satisfy the minimum eligibility standards promulgated by the U.S. Department of Education would have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues and results of operations. In addition, limitations on the number of students eligible to receive Title IV funds in a program and on the introduction or growth of new programs could have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues and results of operations. Further, we could be subject to lawsuits from students if a program is declared ineligible for participation in the Title IV programs or restricted on the number of students eligible to participate based on prior students attending the program. No assurances can be given that the excessive debt warnings we may be required to provide to students would not have a material adverse impact on our ability to retain or recruit prospective students to our schools. 36 Table of Contents Congress may change eligibility standards or reduce funding for federal student financial aid programs, or other governmental or regulatory bodies may change similar laws or regulations relating to other student financial aid programs, which could reduce the growth of our student population and revenue. Political and budgetary concerns can significantly affect Title IV programs and other laws and regulations governing federal and state student financial aid programs. Title IV programs are made available pursuant to the provisions of the HEA, and the HEA must be reauthorized by Congress approximately every six years. Independent of reauthorization, Congress must annually appropriate funds for Title IV programs. In August 2008, the most recent reauthorization of the HEA was enacted, continuing the Title IV HEA programs through at least September 30, 2014. Future reauthorizations or appropriations may result in numerous legislative changes, including those that could adversely affect our ability to participate in the Title IV programs and the availability of Title IV and non-Title IV funding sources for our students. Congress also may impose certain requirements upon the state or accrediting agencies with respect to their approval of our schools. Any action by Congress or the U.S. Department of Education that significantly reduces funding for the federal student financial aid programs or the ability of our schools or students to participate in these programs would have a material adverse effect on our student population and revenue. Legislative action also may increase our administrative costs and require us to modify our practices in order for our schools to comply fully with applicable requirements. If we do not meet specific financial responsibility ratios and other compliance tests established by the U.S. Department of Education, our schools may lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs, which may result in a reduction in our student enrollment and an adverse effect on our results of operations. To participate in federal student financial aid programs, an institution, among other things, must either satisfy certain quantitative standards of financial responsibility on an annual basis or post a letter of credit in favor of the U.S. Department of Education and possibly accept other conditions or limitations on its participation in the federal student financial aid programs. As of June 30, 2010, we did not meet the required quantitative measures of financial responsibility on a consolidated basis. We are required by the U.S. Department of Education to post a letter of credit and are subject to provisional certification and additional financial and cash monitoring of our disbursements of Title IV funds due to our failure on a consolidated basis to satisfy the financial responsibility standards after the completion of the Transaction resulting from the amount of goodwill we recorded and indebtedness we incurred in connection with the Transaction. The amount of this letter of credit is currently set at 10% of the Title IV program funds expected to be received by students at our schools during fiscal 2011. As a result, we posted a $259.8 million letter of credit with the U.S. Department of Education in May 2010. Prior to May 2010, the size of the letter of credit was set at 10% of the Title IV program funds received by students at our schools during the preceding fiscal year. Outstanding letters of credit reduce the availability under our revolving credit facility. We expect to continue to not satisfy the U.S. Department of Education’s quantitative measure of financial responsibility for the foreseeable future. As a result, we expect each of our schools to be required to continue on provisional certification for additional three-year periods. The current provisional certifications of our schools expire as follows: five schools expire during fiscal 2011; 23 schools expire during fiscal 2012; and two schools expire during the first quarter of fiscal 2013. We expect that the U.S. Department of Education’s evaluation of our schools’ financial responsibility on the basis of our consolidated financial statements will continue through future annual reviews and may result in continuation of the requirement that we maintain a letter of credit, provisional certification and financial and cash monitoring in future years. Any conditions or limitations on our participation in the federal student financial aid programs in addition to the letter of credit, provisional certification and additional financial and cash monitoring could adversely affect our net income and student population. We expect to be required to renew the letter of credit at the 10% level for as long as our schools remain provisionally certified, although the U.S. Department of Education could increase the amount substantially. There can be no assurance that the U.S. Department of Education will not require further restrictions as a condition of the renewal of our certification. Any failure to meet specific financial responsibility ratios and other compliance tests established by the U.S. Department of Education could affect our students’ ability to access student financial assistance programs, which would adversely affect our net income and student population. 37 Table of Contents An institution may lose its eligibility to participate in some or all of the federal student financial aid programs if defaults by its students on their federal student loans exceed specified rates. Certain of our schools have default rates in excess of specified rates in the Federal Perkins Loan Program, which is not a material federal student aid program for us or any of our institutions. Though we believe our schools do not exceed either the specified rates for student default for our material programs or the percentage of revenue limitation test, loss of eligibility to participate in the federal student financial aid programs by one or more of our schools could have a material adverse effect on our student population and revenue. The consumer credit markets in the United States have recently suffered from increases in default rates and foreclosures on mortgages. Providers of federally guaranteed student loans have also experienced recent increases in default rates. Any increase in interest rates could contribute to higher default rates with respect to repayment of our students’ education loans. Such higher default rates may adversely impact our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, which could result in a significant reduction in our student population and our profitability. In the event of a bankruptcy filing by any of our schools, the schools filing for bankruptcy would not be eligible to receive Title IV program funds, notwithstanding the automatic stay provisions of federal bankruptcy law, which would make any reorganization difficult to implement. In addition, our other schools may be held to be jointly responsible for financial aid defaults experienced at the bankrupt schools. If any of our schools either fails to demonstrate “administrative capability” to the U.S. Department of Education or violates other requirements of Title IV programs, the U.S. Department of Education may impose sanctions or terminate that school’s participation in Title IV programs. Regulations adopted by the U.S. Department of Education specify criteria an institution must satisfy to establish that it has the requisite “administrative capability” to participate in Title IV programs. These criteria require, among other things, that the institution: • comply with all applicable federal student financial aid regulations; • have capable and sufficient personnel to administer the federal student financial aid programs; • have acceptable methods of defining and measuring the satisfactory academic progress of its students; • provide financial aid counseling to its students; and • submit all reports and financial statements required by the regulations. If an institution fails to satisfy any of these criteria, or any other of the legal and regulatory requirements of Title IV programs, the U.S. Department of Education may: • require the repayment of federal student financial aid funds improperly disbursed; • transfer the institution from the “advance” system of payment of federal student financial aid funds to the “reimbursement” system of payment or “cash monitoring”; • place the institution on provisional certification status; or • commence a proceeding to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate the participation of the institution in Title IV programs. If one or more of our schools loses or is limited in its access to, or is required to repay, federal student financial aid funds due to a failure to demonstrate administrative capability or to comply with other requirements of Title IV programs, our business could be materially adversely affected. 38 Table of Contents If our institutions do not comply with the 90/10 Rule, they will lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs. Regulations promulgated under the HEA require all for-profit education institutions to comply with the 90/10 Rule, which imposes sanctions on participating institutions that derive more than 90% of their total revenue on a cash accounting basis from Title IV programs. An institution that derives more than 90% of its total revenue on a cash accounting basis from the Title IV programs for each of two consecutive fiscal years loses its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs and is not permitted to reapply for eligibility until the end of the following two fiscal years. Institutions which fail to satisfy the 90/10 Rule for one fiscal year are placed on provisional certification. Compliance with the 90/10 Rule is measured at the end of each of our fiscal years. For our institutions that disbursed federal financial aid during fiscal 2010, the percentage of revenues derived from Title IV programs ranged from approximately 89% to 58%, with a weighted average of approximately 77% as compared to a weighted average of approximately 70% in fiscal 2009. In order to ensure proper reporting of our 90/10 rates, we have engaged an independent accounting firm to perform a detailed review of the 90/10 rate of one of our institutions representing approximately 1.6% of our net revenues in fiscal 2010 which had a 90/10 rate of 89% in fiscal 2010. We expect to receive the results of the detailed review in the Fall of 2010. We anticipate that our 90/10 rates will continue to increase in fiscal 2011 due to recent increases in grants from the Pell program and other Title IV loan limits, coupled with decreases in the availability of state grants and private loans and the inability of households to pay cash due to the current economic climate. While our consolidated 90/10 rate for fiscal 2011 is projected to remain under the 90% threshold, we project that some of our institutions will exceed the 90% threshold if we do not continue to successfully implement certain changes to these institutions during the fiscal year which would decrease their 90/10 rate, such as increases in international and military students and certain internal restructuring designed to achieve additional operational efficiencies. Additionally, the revised rules included in the new HEA reauthorization include relief through June 30, 2011 from a $2,000 increase in the annual Stafford loan availability for undergraduate students which became effective July 1, 2008. We anticipate that our 90/10 rate will increase substantially in fiscal 2012 in the event that relief from this additional $2,000 is not extended beyond June 30, 2011, which would adversely affect our ability to comply with the 90/10 Rule. Continued decreases in the availability of state grants would also adversely impact our ability to comply with the 90/10 Rule because state grants generally are considered cash payments for purposes of the 90/10 Rule. We continue to monitor the compliance with the 90/10 Rule by each of our institutions and assess the impact of increased financial aid received by our students under the current rule. If any of our institutions violates the 90/10 Rule, its ineligibility to participate in Title IV programs for at least two years would have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues and results of operations. Our failure to comply with various state regulations or to maintain any national, regional or programmatic accreditation could result in actions taken by those states or accrediting agencies that would have a material adverse effect on our student enrollment and results of operations. Each of our U.S. campuses, including our campuses that provide online programs, is authorized to offer education programs and grant degrees or diplomas by the state in which such school is physically located. The level of regulatory oversight varies substantially from state to state. In some U.S. states, the schools are subject to licensure by the state education agency and also by a separate higher education agency. Some states have sought to assert jurisdiction over online educational institutions that offer educational services to residents in the state or that advertise or recruit in the state, notwithstanding the lack of a physical location in the state. State laws may establish standards for instruction, qualifications of faculty, location and nature of facilities, financial policies and responsibility and other operational matters. State laws and regulations may limit our ability to obtain authorization to operate in certain states or to award degrees or diplomas or offer new degree programs. Certain states prescribe standards of financial responsibility that are different from those prescribed by the U.S. Department of Education. In addition, each of our U.S. schools is accredited by a national or regional accreditation agency recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, and some educational programs are also programmatically accredited. The level of regulatory oversight and standards can vary based on the agency. Certain accreditation agencies prescribe standards that are different from those prescribed by the U.S. Department of Education. If we are found not to be in compliance with an applicable state regulation and a state seeks to restrict one or more of our business activities within its boundaries, we may not be able to recruit or enroll students in that state and may have to cease providing services and advertising in that state, which could have a material adverse effect on our student enrollment and revenues. If one of our schools does not meet its accreditation or applicable state requirements, its accreditation and/or state licensing could be limited, modified, suspended or terminated. Failure to maintain licensure in the state where it is physically located or institutional accreditation would make such school ineligible to participate in Title IV programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our student enrollment and revenues. Further, requirements for programs offered by our schools that are accredited by national accrediting agencies with respect to retention rates, graduation rates and employment placement rates may be more difficult to satisfy due to the current economic recession in the U.S. If programmatic accreditation is withdrawn or fails to be renewed for any of the individual programs at any of our schools, enrollment in such program could decline, which could have a material adverse impact on student enrollment and revenues at that school. 39 Table of Contents The U.S. Department of Education recently proposed regulations that would require states, in order to permit post-secondary institutions located within the state to participate in the Title IV student financing programs, to (i) specifically authorize each institution to offer programs beyond secondary education (i.e., is not merely an authorization to do business in the state), (ii) make the authorization subject to adverse action by the state, and (iii) have in place a process to review and act on complaints about the institution and to enforce applicable state laws against the institution. If the proposed regulation is adopted by the U.S. Department of Education, a number of states will need to make significant revisions to their current regulatory scheme for post-secondary institutions. For example, Argosy University has a campus located in Hawaii, which does not have a state agency which authorizes post-secondary institutions. In addition, a number of states where we have schools, such as California, Texas and Alabama, do not license post-secondary institutions which are regionally accredited. We are unsure of the potential impact of this proposed regulation on our three schools which offer fully online programs because these schools generally are not currently required to obtain licensure in the states in which their students reside outside of the main campus for the school. Further, the U.S. Department of Education plans to issue final regulations by November 1, 2010, which would make the regulations effective as of July 1, 2011 and provide very little time for states negatively impacted by the new regulation to adopt legislation which conforms with the new requirements unless the proposed regulations are substantially revised prior to adoption or the effective date of the regulations is extended. The inability of our students to participate in Title IV financing programs at one or more of our schools due to the failure of the state in which it is located to comply with any new regulations on authorization and oversight of post-secondary institutions would have a material adverse effect on our student population and revenue. Additionally, the requirement that our three schools which currently offer fully online programs to obtain authorization from each state in which students enrolled in the programs are located would have a have a material adverse effect on our student population and revenue if the schools are not provided sufficient time in which to obtain the state authorizations. Loss of or reductions in state financial aid programs for our students could negatively impact our revenues from students. In fiscal 2010, approximately 2% of our net revenues were indirectly derived from state financial aid programs. State grant programs are generally subject to annual appropriation by the state legislature, which may lead to the state’s eliminating or significantly decreasing the amount of state aid to students at our schools. Recently several states in which we have schools have substantially decreased or eliminated the amount of grants available to students who attend for-profit post secondary institutions. The loss of access to these state grants by our students could have a material adverse effect on our business due to enrollment losses at our schools. If regulators do not approve transactions involving a change of control or change in our corporate structure, we may lose our ability to participate in federal student financial aid programs, which would result in declines in our student enrollment, and thereby adversely affect our results of operations. If we or one of our schools experiences a change of ownership or control under the standards of applicable state agencies, accrediting agencies or the U.S. Department of Education, we or the schools governed by such agencies must seek the approval of the relevant agencies. Transactions or events that could constitute a change of control include significant acquisitions or dispositions of shares of our stock, internal restructurings, acquisition of schools from other owners, significant changes in the composition of a school’s board of directors or certain other transactions or events, several of which are beyond our control. The failure of any of our schools to reestablish its state authorization, accreditation or U.S. Department of Education certification following a transaction involving a change of ownership or control would result in a suspension of operating authority or suspension or loss of federal student financial aid funding, which could have a material adverse effect on our student population and revenue. Further, such a change of ownership or control could result in the imposition of growth restrictions on our schools, including limitations on our ability to open new campuses or initiate new educational programs. Restrictions on growth such as these could have a material adverse impact on our student population and revenue and future growth plans. The potential adverse effects of a change of control also could influence future decisions by us and our shareholders regarding the sale, purchase, transfer, issuance or redemption of our stock, which could discourage bids for shares of our common stock and could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Government and regulatory and accrediting agencies may conduct compliance reviews, bring claims or initiate litigation against us, which may adversely impact our licensing or accreditation status, and thereby adversely affect our results of operations. From time to time, we may be subject to program reviews, audits, investigations, claims of non-compliance or lawsuits by governmental or accrediting agencies or third parties, which may allege statutory violations, regulatory infractions or common law causes of action. If the results of any such proceedings are unfavorable to us, we may lose or have limitations imposed on our accreditation, state licensing, state grant or Title IV program participation, be required to pay monetary damages or be subject to fines, penalties, injunctions or other censure that could materially and adversely affect our business. We also may be limited in our ability to open new schools or add new program offerings and may be adversely impacted by the negative publicity surrounding an investigation or lawsuit. Even if we adequately address the issues raised by an agency review or investigation or successfully defend a third-party lawsuit, we may suffer interruptions in cash flows due to, among other things, transfer from the advance funding to the “reimbursement” or “heightened cash monitoring” method of Title IV program funding, and we may have to devote significant money and management resources to address these issues, which could harm our business. Additionally, we may experience adverse collateral consequences, including declines in the number of students enrolling at our schools and the willingness of third parties to deal with us or our schools, as a result of any negative publicity associated with such reviews, claims or litigation. The Chicago campus of Argosy University was included in an undercover investigation performed by the GAO in connection with hearings currently being held by the U.S. Senate HELP committee. The report presented by the GAO to the HELP committee stated that admissions representatives at all 15 of the for-profit institutions visited by the GAO in connection with its undercover investigation made “deceptive or otherwise questionable statements” to the GAO investigators. The statements made by our admissions representative cited by the GAO relate to the overall cost of the program of study and incomplete information about the qualifications of faculty members and student graduation rates. We have requested copies of the interactions between the GAO investigators and our campus personnel and have yet to receive a copy of the videotape. We will review any evidence provided by the GAO and will take appropriate actions based on any evidence we obtain. Additionally, the President of Argosy University received a letter from HLC requesting a response to the allegations contained in the GAO report. In addition to seeking a response to the specific circumstances identified in the GAO report, HLC requested that Argosy University demonstrate that it has reasonable, sufficient, and effective systems in place to assure appropriate control of employees engaged in the recruiting, marketing or admissions process. Argosy University is in the process of responding to HLC’s requests. The hearings held by the HELP committee and the requested GAO review are not formally related to the rulemaking process currently undertaken by the U.S. Department of Education. However, the hearings and the requested GAO review could affect the final rules promulgated by the U.S. Department of Education or could lead to further investigations of proprietary schools and the proposal of additional regulations. 40 Table of Contents Our regulatory environment and our reputation may be negatively influenced by the actions of other post-secondary education institutions. In recent years, there have been a number of regulatory investigations and civil litigation matters targeting post-secondary education institutions. For example, the U.S. Senate HELP committee held two hearings on the for-profit education industry during the Summer of 2010 and plans to hold more in the Fall. We received a substantial request for documents from the HELP committee on August 5, 2010 in connection with the hearings and are currently responding to the request. The request seeks information and documents relating to our use of Federal resources, including how we recruit and enroll students, set program price or tuition, determine financial aid including private or institutional loans, track attendance, handle withdrawal of students and return of Title IV funds and manage compliance with the 90/10 Rule. The request also seeks an understanding of the number of students who complete or graduate from programs offered by our schools, how many of those students find new work in their educational area, the debt levels of students enrolling and completing programs and how we track and manage the number of students who risk default within the cohort default rate window. In addition, the HELP committee requested that the Government Accountability Office perform an independent study of the for-profit education industry. The study is not anticipated to be available until 2011. The HELP committee hearings, along with other recent investigations and lawsuits, have included allegation of, among other things, deceptive trade practices, false claims against the United States and non-compliance with state and U.S. Department of Education regulations. These allegations have attracted significant adverse media coverage. Allegations against the overall student lending and post-secondary education sectors may impact general public perceptions of educational institutions, including us, in a negative manner. Adverse media coverage regarding other educational institutions or regarding us directly could damage our reputation, reduce student demand for our programs, adversely impact our revenues and operating profit or result in increased regulatory scrutiny. We do not have significant experience in processing student loans through the Direct Loan program and we could experience increases to our administrative costs and delays to the receipt of federal loan proceeds. Loans to students at our U.S. schools under the FFEL/Direct loan program represented approximately 72.7% of our net revenues in fiscal 2010. Under recently adopted legislation, all new federal student loans after July 1, 2010 are required to be made through the Direct Loan program. As of June 30, 2009 only two of our schools participated in the Direct Loan program. While each of our U.S. based schools participated in the Direct Loan program as of June 30, 2010, processing all of our students’ federal loans through the Direct Loan program is a substantial change to our systems and operating procedures, and could cause increases to our administrative costs and delays to our receipt of federal student loan proceeds. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS If our students were unable to obtain private loans from third party lenders, our business could be adversely affected given our reliance on such lenders as a source of net revenues. The education finance industry has been experiencing and may continue to experience problems that have resulted in fewer overall financing options for some of our students. Factors that could impact the general availability of loans to our students include: • changes in overall economic conditions or overall uncertainty or disruption in capital markets, in either case causing lenders to cease making student loans, limit the volume or types of loans made or impose more stringent eligibility or underwriting standards; • the financial condition and continued financial viability of student loan providers; 41 Table of Contents • changes in applicable laws or regulations, such as provisions of the most recently-enacted HEA reauthorization that impose new disclosure and certification requirements with respect to private educational loans, that could have the effect of reducing the availability of education financing, including as a result of any lenders choosing to provide fewer loans or to stop providing loans altogether in light of increased regulation, or which could increase the costs of student loans; and • determinations by lenders to reduce the number of loans, or to cease making loans altogether, to students attending or planning to attend certain types of schools, particularly for-profit institutions. During fiscal 2010, revenues derived indirectly from private loans to students at our schools, excluding loans under our Education Finance Loan program, represented approximately 4.5% of our net revenues, as compared to approximately 13.0% and 22.3% of our net revenues in fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. These loans are provided pursuant to private loan programs and are made available to eligible students at our schools to fund a portion of the students’ costs of education not covered by federal and state financial aid grants due to increases in tuition and the cost of living. Private loans are made to our students by institutions and are non-recourse to us and our schools. Approximately 43% of the private loans in fiscal 2010 were offered by SLM Corporation (“Sallie Mae”) and its affiliates and serviced by its affiliated loan servicer. During the last two fiscal years, adverse market conditions for consumer student loans have resulted in providers of private loans reducing the attractiveness and/or decreasing the availability of private loans to post-secondary students, including students with low credit scores who would not otherwise be eligible for credit-based private loans. In order to provide student loans to certain of our students who do not satisfy standard underwriting criteria, we pay credit enhancement fees to certain lenders (including Sallie Mae) based on the principal balance of each loan disbursed by the lender. An agreement we entered into with Sallie Mae to provide loans to certain students who received a private loan from Sallie Mae prior to April 17, 2008 and are continued their education but who did not satisfy Sallie Mae’s current standard underwriting criteria expired in June 2010. The consumer credit markets in the United States have recently suffered from increases in default rates and foreclosures on mortgages, which has resulted in fewer providers of student loans. Providers of federally guaranteed student loans and alternative or private student loans have also experienced recent increases in default rates. Adverse market conditions for consumer loans have resulted in providers of private loans reducing the attractiveness and/or decreasing the availability of private loans to post-secondary students, including students with low credit scores who would not otherwise be eligible for credit-based private loans. Prospective students may find that these increased financing costs make borrowing prohibitively expensive and abandon or delay enrollment in post-secondary education programs. Certain private lenders have also required that we pay them new or increased fees in order to provide private loans to prospective students. The inability of our students to finance their education could cause our student population to decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We do not anticipate awarding aid to new students under the Education Finance Loan program during fiscal 2011, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In August 2008, we introduced the Education Finance Loan program, which enables students who have exhausted all available government-sponsored or other aid and have been denied a private loan to borrow a portion of their tuition and other educational expenses at our schools not covered by other financial aid sources if they or a co-borrower meet certain eligibility and underwriting criteria. During fiscal 2010, approximately 2.6% of our net revenues were derived from loans under the Education Finance Loan program as compared to 1.0% of our net revenues in fiscal 2009. We do not anticipate awarding aid under the Education Finance Loan program in fiscal 2011 to students who had not received aid under the program as of June 30, 2010. We estimate that total aid awarded under the program will be approximately $15 million in fiscal 2011. We bear the risks of collection with respect to these loans from students who do not meet eligibility and underwriting standards of other commercial lenders. As a result, our allowance for doubtful accounts and bad debt expense have increased. Factors that may impact our ability to collect these loans include general economic conditions, compliance with laws applicable to the origination, servicing and collection of loans, the quality of our loan servicers’ performance and the priority that borrowers under these loans, particularly students who did not complete or were dissatisfied with their programs of study, attach to repaying these loans as compared to other obligations. In addition, because of restrictions imposed under our existing debt arrangements or otherwise, this program, or any enlargement or extension of this program, could adversely affect our ability to make investments and incur indebtedness for the financing of other aspects of our business, including acquisitions. 42 Table of Contents Federal, state and local laws and public policy and general principles of equity relating to the protection of consumers apply to the origination, servicing and collection of the loans that we purchase under this program. Any violation of the various federal, state and local laws, including, in some instances, violations of these laws by parties not under our control, may result in losses on the loans that we purchase or may limit our ability to collect all or part of the principal or interest on the loans that we purchase. This may be the case even if we are not directly responsible for the violations by such parties. Federal or state financial regulators also might delay or suspend the Education Finance Loan program for a variety of reasons, including as a result of concerns that the program exposes our bank partners to unacceptable risks. Finally, depending on the terms of the loans, state consumer credit regulators may assert that our activities in connection with the Education Finance Loan program require us to obtain one or more licenses, registrations or other forms of regulatory approvals, any of which may not be able to be obtained in a timely manner, if at all. Our business may be adversely affected by a general economic slowdown or recession in the U.S. or abroad. The United States and other industrialized countries currently are experiencing reduced economic activity, increased unemployment, substantial uncertainty about their financial services markets and, in some cases, economic recession. In addition, homeowners in the United States have experienced a significant reduction in wealth due to the decline in residential real estate values across much of the country. These events may reduce the demand for our programs among students, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. These adverse economic developments also may result in a reduction in the number of jobs available to our graduates and lower salaries being offered in connection with available employment, which, in turn, may result in declines in our placement and persistence rates. In addition, these events could adversely affect the ability or willingness of our former students to repay student loans, which could increase our student loan cohort default rate and require increased time, attention and resources to manage these defaults. Further, the inability of students to pay their tuition and fees in cash has, along with other factors, resulted in a significant increase to our 90/10 rate. The continued disruptions in the credit and equity markets worldwide may impede or prevent our access to the capital markets for additional funding to expand or operate our business and may affect the availability or cost of borrowing under our existing credit facilities. The credit and equity markets of both mature and developing economies have experienced extraordinary volatility, asset erosion and uncertainty during the last two years leading to governmental intervention in the banking sector in the United States and abroad on an unprecedented scale. Until these market disruptions diminish, we may not be able to access the capital markets to obtain funding needed to refinance our existing indebtedness or expand our business. In addition, changes in the capital or other legal requirements applicable to commercial lenders may affect the availability or increase the cost of borrowing under our senior secured credit facilities. If we are unable to obtain needed capital on terms acceptable to us, we may have to limit our growth initiatives or take other actions that materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may have difficulty opening additional new schools and growing our online academic programs, and we may be unable to achieve the anticipated return on our investment. We anticipate continuing to open new schools in the future. Establishing new schools poses unique challenges and requires us to make investments in management, capital expenditures, marketing expenses and other resources. When opening a new school, we are required to obtain appropriate state or provincial and accrediting agency approvals. In addition, to be eligible for federal student financial aid programs, a school has to be certified by the U.S. Department of Education. Further, our debt agreements include limitations on the amount of capital expenditures we may make on an annual basis. Our failure to effectively manage the operations of newly established schools or service areas, or any diversion of management’s attention from our core school operating activities, could harm our business. 43 Table of Contents We anticipate significant future growth from online courses we offer to students. As of June 30, 2010, we offer fully online programs at The Art Institute of Pittsburgh, Online Division, Argosy University and South University. We plan to continue to introduce new online programs at these schools in the future. The success of any new online programs and classes depends in part on our ability to expand the content of our programs, develop new programs in a cost-effective manner and meet the needs of our students in a timely manner. The expansion of our existing online programs, the creation of new online classes and the development of new fully online programs may not be accepted by students or the online education market for many reasons, including as a result of the expected increased competition in the online education market or because of any problems with the performance or reliability of our online program infrastructure. In addition, a general decline in Internet use for any reason, including due to security or privacy concerns, the cost of Internet service or changes in government regulation of Internet use may result in less demand for online educational services, in which case we may not be able to grow our online programs as planned. We may not be able to implement our growth strategy optimally if we are not able to improve the content of our existing academic programs or to develop new programs on a timely basis and in a cost-effective manner. We continually seek to improve the content of our existing academic programs and develop new programs in order to meet changing market needs. Revisions to our existing academic programs and the development of new programs may not be accepted by existing or prospective students or employers in all instances. If we cannot respond effectively to market changes, our business may be adversely affected. Even if we are able to develop acceptable new programs, we may not be able to introduce these new programs as quickly as students require or as quickly as our competitors are able to introduce competing programs. Our efforts to introduce a new academic program may be conditioned or delayed by requirements to obtain federal, state and accrediting agency approvals. The development of new programs and classes, both conventional and online, is subject to requirements and limitations imposed by the U.S. Department of Education, state licensing agencies and the relevant accrediting bodies. The imposition of restrictions on the initiation of new educational programs by any of our regulatory agencies may delay such expansion plans. If we do not respond adequately to changes in market requirements, our ability to attract and retain students could be impaired and our financial results could suffer. Establishing new academic programs or modifying existing academic programs also may require us to make investments in specialized personnel and capital expenditures, increase marketing efforts and reallocate resources away from other uses. We may have limited experience with the subject matter of new programs and may need to modify our systems and strategy. If we are unable to increase the number of students, offer new programs in a cost-effective manner or otherwise manage effectively the operations of newly established academic programs, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our marketing and advertising programs may not be effective in attracting prospective students, current students or potential employers of our graduates. In order to maintain and increase our revenues and margins, we must continue to attract new students in a cost-effective manner. Over the last several fiscal years, we have increased the amounts spent on marketing and advertising, and we anticipate that this trend will continue. If we are unable to successfully advertise and market our schools and programs, our ability to attract and enroll new students could be adversely impacted and, consequently, our financial performance could suffer. We use marketing tools such as the Internet, radio, television and print media advertising to promote our schools and programs. Our representatives also make presentations at high schools. If we are unable to utilize these advertising methods in a cost-effective manner or if our other costs limit the amount of funds we can contribute to advertising, our profitability and revenue may suffer. Additionally, we rely on the general reputation of our schools and referrals from current students, alumni and employers as a source of new students. Among the factors that could prevent us from successfully marketing and advertising our schools and programs are the failure of our marketing tools and strategy to appeal to prospective students or current student and/or employer dissatisfaction with our program offerings or results and diminished access to high school campuses. A decline in the overall growth of enrollment in post-secondary institutions could cause us to experience lower enrollment at our schools, which would negatively impact our future growth. According to the U.S. Department of Education, enrollment in degree-granting, post-secondary institutions is projected to grow 7.9% over the ten-year period ending in the fall of 2018 to approximately 20.6 million students. This growth compares with a 31.5% increase reported in the prior ten-year period ended in 2008, when enrollment increased from 14.5 million students in 1998 to 19.1 million students in 2008. While enrollment growth in the ten-year period ended 2008 was accompanied by a 20.7% increase in high school graduates from 2.8 million students in 1998 to 3.3 million students in 2008, the U.S. Department of Education is not projecting any significant growth in the number of high school graduates through 2018. 44 Table of Contents Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt. The following chart shows our level of consolidated indebtedness at June 30, 2010 (in millions): Senior secured term loan facility $ 1,115.0 8 3/4% senior notes due 2014 375.0 10 1/4% senior subordinated notes due 2016 47.7 Other 1.0 Total $ 1,538.7 Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: • making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness; • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • requiring a substantial portion of cash flows from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flows to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; • increasing the likelihood of our not satisfying, on a consolidated basis, the U.S. Department of Education’s annual responsibility requirements and subjecting us to letter of credit and provisional certification requirements for the foreseeable future; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities, bear interest at variable rates; • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, program development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged. In addition, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our 8 3/4% senior notes due 2014 (the “Senior Notes”) and our 10 1/4% senior subordinated notes due 2016 (the “Senior Subordinated Notes” and, together with the Senior Notes, the “Notes”). If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our debt obligations and may be forced to take other actions in an effort to satisfy our obligations under such indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our indebtedness, or to refinance our obligations under our debt agreements on acceptable terms, if at all, will depend on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to the financial and business risk factors described in this Form 10-K, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay the opening of new schools, acquisitions or capital expenditures, sell assets, seek to obtain additional equity capital or restructure our indebtedness. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, if at all, particularly because of our high levels of debt and the debt incurrence restrictions imposed by the agreements governing our debt. 45 Table of Contents Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing the Notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit certain of our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; • pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of capital stock or make other restricted payments; • make certain investments, including capital expenditures; • sell certain assets; • create liens; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • enter into certain transactions with affiliates. In addition, under our senior secured credit agreement, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios and other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet those ratios and tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the senior secured credit agreement. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the senior secured credit agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit agreement immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. Certain of our subsidiaries have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under the senior secured credit agreement. If the lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets to repay our indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities, as well as our unsecured indebtedness. Failure to keep pace with changing market needs and technology could harm our ability to attract students. The success of our schools depends to a large extent on the willingness of prospective employers to employ our students upon graduation. Increasingly, employers demand that their new employees possess appropriate technological skills and also appropriate “soft” skills, such as communication, critical thinking and teamwork skills. These skills can evolve rapidly in a changing economic and technological environment. Accordingly, it is important that our educational programs evolve in response to those economic and technological changes. The expansion of existing academic programs and the development of new programs may not be accepted by current or prospective students or the employers of our graduates. Even if our schools are able to develop acceptable new programs, our schools may not be able to begin offering those new programs as quickly as required by prospective employers or as quickly as our competitors offer similar programs. If we are unable to adequately respond to changes in market requirements due to regulatory or financial constraints, unusually rapid technological changes or other factors, our ability to attract and retain students could be impaired, the rates at which our graduates obtain jobs involving their fields of study could suffer and our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Failure to obtain additional capital in the future could adversely affect our ability to grow. We believe that funds from operations, cash, investments and borrowings under our revolving credit facility will be adequate to fund our current operating plans for the foreseeable future. However, we may need additional debt or equity financing in order to finance our continued growth. The amount and timing of such additional financing will vary principally depending on the timing and size of acquisitions and new school openings, the willingness of sellers to provide financing for future acquisitions and the amount of cash flows from our operations. To the extent that we require additional financing in the future and are unable to obtain such additional financing, we may not be able to fully implement our growth strategy. Failure to effectively manage our growth could harm our business. Our business recently has experienced rapid growth. Growth and expansion of our operations may place a significant strain on our resources and increase demands on our management information and reporting systems, financial management controls and personnel. We may not be able to maintain or accelerate our current growth rate, effectively manage our expanding operations or achieve planned growth on a timely or profitable basis. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may experience operating inefficiencies and our net income may be materially adversely affected. 46 Table of Contents Capacity constraints or system disruptions to our online computer networks could have a material adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain students. The performance and reliability of the program infrastructure of our schools’ online operations is critical to the reputation of these campuses and our ability to attract and retain students. Any computer system error or failure, or a sudden and significant increase in traffic on our computer networks that host our schools’ online operations, may result in the unavailability of our schools’ online operations’ computer networks. In addition, any significant failure of our computer networks could disrupt our on campus operations. Individual, sustained or repeated occurrences could significantly damage the reputation of our schools’ online operations and result in a loss of potential or existing students. Additionally, our schools’ online computer systems and operations are vulnerable to interruption or malfunction due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters and network and telecommunications failures. Any interruption to our schools’ online computer systems or operations could have a material adverse effect on the ability of our schools’ online operations to attract and retain students. The personal information that we collect may be vulnerable to breach, theft or loss that could adversely affect our reputation and operations. Possession and use of personal information in our operations subjects us to risks and costs that could harm our business. Our schools collect, use and retain large amounts of personal information regarding our students and their families, including social security numbers, tax return information, personal and family financial data and credit card numbers. We also collect and maintain personal information of our employees in the ordinary course of our business. Our computer networks and the networks of certain of our vendors that hold and manage confidential information on our behalf may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security threats. Confidential information also may become available to third parties inadvertently when we integrate or convert computer networks into our network following an acquisition of a school or in connection with upgrades from time to time. Due to the sensitive nature of the information contained on our networks, such as students’ grades, our networks may be targeted by hackers. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. Although we use security and business controls to limit access and use of personal information, a third party may be able to circumvent those security and business controls, which could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. In addition, errors in the storage, use or transmission of personal information could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. Possession and use of personal information in our operations also subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that could require notification of data breaches and restrict our use of personal information. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. A major breach, theft or loss of personal information regarding our students and their families or our employees that is held by us or our vendors could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and results of operations and result in further regulation and oversight by federal and state authorities and increased costs of compliance. We may not be able to retain our key personnel or hire and retain additional personnel needed for us to sustain and grow our business as planned. Our success depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified faculty, school presidents and administrators and corporate management. We may have difficulty locating and hiring qualified personnel, and retaining such personnel once hired. In addition, key personnel may leave and subsequently compete against us. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, many of whom are not party to employment agreements with us, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms could impair our ability to successfully sustain and grow our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 47 Table of Contents If we are not able to integrate acquired schools, we may experience operational inefficiencies. From time to time, we engage in acquisitions of schools. Integrating acquired operations into our institutions involves significant risks and uncertainties, including: • inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures; • distraction of management’s attention from normal business operations during the integration process; • expenses associated with the integration efforts; and • unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence process, including legal contingencies. Our inability to operate one or more of our schools or locations due to a natural disaster, terrorist act or widespread epidemic or to restore a damaged school or location to its prior operational level could materially hurt our operating results. A number of our schools are located in Florida and elsewhere in the southeastern United States in areas prone to hurricane damage, which may be substantial. We also have a number of schools located in California in areas vulnerable to earthquakes. One or more of these schools may be unable to operate for an extended period of time in the event of a hurricane, earthquake or other natural disaster which does substantial damage to the area in which a school is located. In addition, we may not be in a position to devote sufficient resources to a damaged school in order for it to re-open in a timely fashion or at the same level of operation as existed prior to the damage. Further, a regional or national outbreak of influenza or other illness easily spread by human contact could cause us to close one or more of our schools for an extended period of time. The failure of one or more of our schools to operate for a substantial period of time could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have a significant concentration of admissions representatives for our fully online schools in two geographically separate locations. A natural disaster or terrorist act which affected one of these locations could result in our inability to contact prospective students for our fully online programs for an extended period of time, which would result in a significantly lower number of new students enrolling in our programs. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and competitors with greater resources could harm our business. The post-secondary education market is highly fragmented and competitive. Our schools compete for students with traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges and universities and other for-profit providers, including those that offer online learning programs. Many public and private colleges and universities, as well as other for-profit providers, offer programs similar to those we offer. We expect to experience additional competition in the future as more colleges, universities and for-profit providers offer an increasing number of online programs. Public institutions receive substantial government subsidies, and public and private institutions have access to government and foundation grants, tax-deductible contributions and other financial resources generally not available to for-profit providers. Accordingly, public and private institutions may have instructional and support resources superior to those in the for-profit sector, and public institutions can offer substantially lower tuition prices. Some of our competitors in both the public and private sectors also have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. We could experience an event of default under our senior secured credit agreement if the Sponsors cease to own an aggregate of at least 35% of the voting interests of our outstanding capital stock, and such an event of default could adversely effect our liquidity and financial position. Under the current terms of our senior secured credit agreement, an event of default would occur if the Sponsors cease to own, collectively, at least 35% of the voting interests of our outstanding capital stock on a fully diluted basis. This event of default could be triggered during the term of the senior secured credit agreement either by future sales or transfers of our capital stock by any of the Sponsors or by additional issuances of voting capital stock by us. As of June 30, 2010, the Sponsors owned, in the aggregate, approximately 69.1% of the voting interests of our outstanding capital stock on a fully diluted basis. Because we cannot control when future transactions by any of the Sponsors will occur, we cannot assure you that one or more Sponsors will not engage in transactions that trigger an event of default under the current terms of our senior secured credit agreement, or that we will be able to amend this provision of our senior secured credit agreement prior to any such sale or transfer. If an event of default occurs as a result of a future sale or transfer by any of the Sponsors, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit agreement to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. It is possible that we would not be in a position at that time to refinance the amounts due under the senior secured credit agreement on economical terms, or at all, or repay the amounts due to the lenders, and the lenders then could proceed against the collateral securing our indebtedness. 48 Table of Contents If we expand in the future into new markets outside the United States, we would be subject to risks inherent in non-domestic operations. If we acquire or establish schools in new markets outside the United States, we will face risks that are inherent in non-domestic operations, including the complexity of operations across borders, currency exchange rate fluctuations, monetary policy risks, such as inflation, hyperinflation and deflation, and potential political and economic instability in the countries into which we expand. Private equity funds affiliated with the Sponsors own the majority of our voting stock, which, if they act together, allows them to control substantially all matters requiring shareholder approval. Private equity funds affiliated with Providence Equity Partners, Goldman Sachs Capital Partners and Leeds Equity Partners beneficially owned approximately 28.6%, 33.6% and 6.9%, respectively, of our outstanding common stock at June 30, 2010. In addition, pursuant to a Shareholders Agreement entered into among the Sponsors and certain of our shareholders, five of our ten directors are representatives of the private equity funds affiliated with the Sponsors. Certain private equity funds affiliated with Providence Equity Partners and certain private equity funds affiliated with Goldman Sachs Capital Partners each have the right to appoint two directors if such Sponsor owns 10% or more of our common stock and each of the Sponsors have the right to appoint one director if such Sponsor owns 2% or more of our common stock. As a result, these private equity funds, should they vote their respective shares in concert with each other, have significant influence over our decision to enter into any corporate transaction and have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of shareholders, regardless of whether or not other shareholders believe that such transaction is in their own best interests. Such concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control or other business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to our shareholders. Additionally, the Sponsors are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. One or more of the Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. As long as private equity funds affiliated with the Sponsors collectively continue to own, directly or indirectly, a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock, the Sponsors will collectively continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. We qualify for and avail ourselves of exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements for companies whose stock is quoted on The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (“Nasdaq”) that provide protection to shareholders of other companies. The parties to the Shareholders Agreement collectively will own more than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock, and we therefore use certain “controlled company” exemptions under Nasdaq’s corporate governance listing standards that free us from the obligation to comply with certain Nasdaq corporate governance requirements, including the requirements: • that a majority of our Board of Directors consists of independent directors; • that the compensation of executive officers be determined, or recommended to our Board of Directors for determination, either by (a) a majority of the independent directors or (b) a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors; and • that director nominees be selected, or recommended for our Board of Directors’ selection, either by (a) a majority of the independent directors or (b) a nominations committee comprised solely of independent directors. As a result of our use of these exemptions, owners of our common stock do not have the same protection afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of Nasdaq’s corporate governance requirements. In the event that we cease to be eligible to utilize “controlled company” exemptions under Nasdaq’s corporate governance listing standards, we will have a transitionary period during which we must achieve compliance with the requirements described above. 49 Table of Contents Provisions in our charter documents and the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us and could discourage a takeover and adversely affect existing shareholders. Provisions in our charter documents could discourage potential acquisition proposals or make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Company, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws provide for various procedural and other requirements that could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, our articles of incorporation authorize our Board of Directors to issue up to 20.0 million shares of preferred stock and to determine the powers, preferences, privileges, rights, including voting rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions on those shares, without any further vote or action by our shareholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock are subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Additional provisions that could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect certain corporate actions include the following: • our articles of incorporation prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors; • once the private equity funds affiliated with the Sponsors and certain of our other institutional investors collectively cease to beneficially own 50% or more of our outstanding common stock, our articles of incorporation and bylaws will not (i) permit shareholder action without a meeting by consent, except for unanimous written consent, (ii) permit shareholders to call or to require the Board of Directors to call a special meeting or (iii) permit shareholder removal of directors without assigning any cause; and • our bylaws provide that shareholders seeking to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must comply with advance notice procedures. Our shareholders may remove directors only for cause; provided, that as long as our shareholders have the right to act by partial written consent, directors may be removed from office by partial written consent without assigning any cause. These and other provisions of the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law (the “PBCL”) and our articles of incorporation and bylaws may discourage acquisition proposals, make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding common stock or delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer or proxy contest, which may negatively affect our stock price. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, investors’ only opportunity to achieve a return on their investment is if the price of our common stock appreciates. We currently do not expect to pay dividends on shares of our common stock. The terms of our senior secured credit facilities and indentures limit our ability to pay cash dividends in certain circumstances. Furthermore, if we are in default under our credit facilities or indentures, our ability to pay cash dividends will be limited in certain circumstances in the absence of a waiver of that default or an amendment to the facilities or indentures. In addition, because we are a holding company, our ability to pay cash dividends on shares of our common stock may be limited by restrictions on our ability to obtain sufficient funds through dividends from our subsidiaries, including the restrictions under our senior secured credit facilities and indentures. Subject to these restrictions, the payment of cash dividends in the future, if any, will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon such factors as earnings levels, capital requirements, our overall financial condition and any other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Consequently, the only opportunity for investors to achieve a return on their investment in the Company is if the market price of our common stock appreciates. We rely on dividends, distributions and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from our operating subsidiaries to meet our debt service and other obligations. We conduct all of our operations through certain of our subsidiaries, and we currently have no significant assets other than cash of approximately $48.3 million and the capital stock of our respective subsidiaries. As a result, we will rely on dividends and other payments or distributions from our operating subsidiaries to meet any existing or future debt service and other obligations. The ability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends or to make distributions or other payments to their parent companies will depend on their respective operating results and may be restricted by, among other things, the laws of their respective jurisdictions of organization, regulatory requirements, agreements entered into by those operating subsidiaries and the covenants of any existing or future outstanding indebtedness that we or our subsidiaries may occur. For example, our senior secured credit agreement and the indentures governing the Notes contain certain restrictions on our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends and to make distributions. 50 Table of Contents We experience seasonal fluctuations in our results of operations which may result in similar fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock. Historically, our quarterly revenues and income have fluctuated primarily as a result of the pattern of student enrollments at our schools. The number of students enrolled at our schools typically is greatest in the second quarter of our fiscal year, when the largest number of recent high school and college graduates typically begin post-secondary education programs. Student vacations generally cause our student enrollments to be at their lowest during our first fiscal quarter. Because a significant portion of our expenses do not vary proportionately with the fluctuations in our revenue, our results in a particular fiscal quarter may not indicate accurately the results we will achieve in a subsequent quarter or for the full fiscal year. These fluctuations in our operating results may result in corresponding volatility in the market price for our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 