ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following is a discussion of certain risks that may affect our business. These risks may negatively impact our existing business, future business opportunities, our financial condition or our financial results. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could also decline. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently see as immaterial, may also negatively impact our business. We need to increase our revenues in order to become profitable under our present cost structure. We have experienced significant losses over an extended number of years. These losses result primarily from declining sales of our skin care products and our primary household products. Maintaining or increasing our revenues is uncertain and involves a number of factors including consumer acceptance of our products, distribution of our products and other matters described below. Our cash flow is dependent upon operating cash flow, available cash and available funds under our financing agreements with Summit Financial Resources, L.P. (“Summit”) and Wells Fargo Bank, National Associations (“Wells Fargo”). Because we are dependent on our operating cash flow, any loss of a significant customer, any further decreases in the distribution of our skin and hair care or household products, new competitive products affecting sales levels of our products or any significant expense not included in our internal budget could result in the need to raise cash. Our financing agreement with Summit was amended effective March 1, 2011 for an initial financing period of 18 months through September 1, 2012. The agreement automatically renews for successive 6 Table of Contents one-year periods unless either party provides written notice of non-renewal at least 60 days prior to the end of a period. In conjunction with the amendment of our agreement with Summit, we entered into an agreement to sell the receivables of our largest customer to Wells Fargo. Except for these agreements and the mortgage on our real property, we have no arrangements for any external financing of debt or equity, and we are not certain any such financing would be available on acceptable terms. In order to improve our operating cash flow, we need to achieve profitability, and/or further reduce our costs. Lease of our office, warehouse and manufacturing buildings is uncertain. We are continuing with our efforts to lease certain parts of our office, warehouse and manufacturing buildings. The purpose of any leases would be to provide additional cash flow for operations and/or to service the mortgage on our real property. In 2010, we reported entering into leases with two parties for one and one-half floors of our office building. In December of 2011, a tenant of one-half of one floor vacated the space due to financial difficulties. We continue to have a material amount of unused space in our office, warehouse and manufacturing buildings. As an owner and lessor of real property, we are subject to all of the risks generally related to ownership and leasing of such property. These risks include, but are not limited to, changes in general or local economic conditions and changes in interest rates which may render the sale, lease or financing of real property difficult or unattractive and which may make debt service burdensome, changes in real estate and zoning laws, disputes with tenants, diversion of our attention from our primary business, increases in real estate taxes, federal or local economic or rent controls, environmental liabilities, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes and other acts of God, and other factors beyond our control. The illiquidity of our real property holdings may also impair our ability to respond promptly to changing circumstances. Current economic conditions may materially and adversely impact our business. The turmoil in the investment market of the United States, the tightening of credit and relatively high level of unemployment in the United States have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and possibly a reduction in business activity generally. A continuation of these conditions could have, among other things, the following potential negative effects: (1) a reduction in spending of consumers in general including in the area of household products and skin and hair care products, which could reduce our sales; (2) the potential increase in bad debts or reserve for bad debts affecting our financial condition or cash flow; and (3) exposure to any increased interest expense to the extent that any financing or refinancing could be at costs higher than our existing debt. Sales of our existing products are affected by changing consumer preferences. Our primary market is retail stores in the United States which sell to consumers or end users in the mass market. Consumer preferences can change rapidly and are affected by new competitive products. This situation is true for both skin and hair care and household products and has affected our products. For example, we believe that our Alpha Hydrox® products with AHAs are effective in helping to diminish fine lines and wrinkles, but consumers may change permanently or temporarily to other products using other technologies or otherwise viewed as “new”. Any changes in consumer preferences can materially affect the sales and distribution of our products and thereby our revenues and results of operations. In both skin and hair care and household products, we compete every day against the largest consumer product companies in the United States. Our large competitors regularly introduce new products and spend considerably more than we can on advertising. The distribution of our products and sales can be adversely impacted by the actions of our competitors. 7 Table of Contents We have limited resources to promote our products with effective advertising. We sell our products in the consumer retail marketplace. Advertising, particularly television advertising, can be important in reaching consumers, although the effectiveness of any particular advertisement cannot be predicted. Maintaining or increasing our revenues is dependent on the introduction of new products that are successful in the marketplace. If we are not successful in making ongoing sales of our newer products to retail stores or these products are not well received by consumers, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected. A loss of one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our product sales. For more than a majority of our sales, we are dependent upon sales to major customers, including Wal-Mart, which is our largest customer and Walgreens, which is our second largest customer. The easy access of consumers to our products is dependent upon major retail stores and other retail stores carrying our products. The willingness of these customers (i.e., retail stores) to carry any of our products depends on various matters, including the level of sales of the product at their stores. Any declines in sales of a product to consumers can result in the loss of retail stores as our customers and the corresponding decreases in the distribution of the product. It is uncertain whether the consumer base served by these stores would purchase our products at other retail stores. In the past, sales of our products have been affected by retail stores which discontinue a product or carry the product in a lesser number of stores. A significant part of our sales of skin and hair care products are represented by the Montagne Jeunesse sachet products which depend upon the continuation of our distributorship agreement with Montagne Jeunesse. Our distributorship agreement with Montagne Jeunesse does not have a fixed term, but continues until it is terminated by either party giving the other party no less than three or six months’ written notice of termination, depending on the reason for termination. To date, neither party has provided such notice. As a practical matter, we believe that the continuation of our agreement with Montagne Jeunesse is dependent upon maintaining our good relationship with them. We face the risk that raw materials for our products may not be available or that costs for these materials will increase, thereby affecting either our ability to manufacture the products or our gross margin on the products. We obtain our raw materials from third party suppliers, one of which is a sole source supplier. We have no long term contracts with our suppliers; and, if a contract exists, it is subject to termination or cost increases. We may not have sufficient raw materials for production of products manufactured by us if there is a shortage in raw materials or one of our suppliers terminates our relationship. In addition, changing suppliers could involve delays that restrict our ability to manufacture or buy products in a timely manner to meet delivery requirements of our customers. The cost of our petroleum-based raw materials has increased significantly over the last couple of years. Our suppliers of products which we distribute can also be subject to the same risk with their vendors. Our sales are affected adversely by returns. In our industry, our customers may be given authorization by us to return products. These returns result in refunds, a reduction of our revenues and usually the need to dispose of the resulting inventory at discounted prices. Accordingly, the level of returns can significantly impact our revenues and cash flow. See information about returns in “Results of Operations” in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. 8 Table of Contents Changes in the regulation of our products, including environmental regulations, could have an adverse effect on the distribution, cost or function of our products. Regulations affecting our products include requirements of the FDA for cosmetic products and environmental regulations affecting emissions from our products. In the past, the FDA has mentioned the treatment of products with AHAs as drugs, which could make our production and sale of certain Alpha Hydrox® products more expensive or prohibitive. Also, in the past, we were required to change the formulation of our household products to comply with environmental regulations and will continue to do so as required. Any adverse developments in litigation could have a material impact on us. We are subject to lawsuits from time to time in the ordinary course of business. While we expect those lawsuits not to have a material effect on us, an adverse development in any such lawsuit or the insurance coverage for a lawsuit could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and cash flow. Any loss of our key executives or other personnel could harm our business. Our success has depended on the experience and continued service of our executive officers and key employees. If we fail to retain these officers or key employees, our ability to continue our business and effectively compete may be substantially diminished. Because of our size, we must rely in many departments within our company on one or two key employees. The loss of any one of these employees could slow our product development, production of a product and sale and distribution of a product. Our stock price can be volatile and can decline substantially. Our stock is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. The volume of our stock varies but is relatively limited. As a result, any events affecting us can result in volatile movements in the price of our stock and can result in significant declines in the market price of our stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not Applicable. 