D. RISK FACTORS Current economic conditions and uncertain economic forecast could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial conditions. Unfavorable changes in the global economy have affected and may affect the demand for the products of the Company and its customers. Adverse economic conditions could also increase the likelihood of customer delinquencies. A prolonged period of economic decline would have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, gross margins, and the overall financial condition of the Company, as well as exacerbate the other risk factors set forth below. Fluctuations in raw material costs or the unavailability of raw materials may adversely affect the Company’s profitability. Historically, the Company has not always been able to pass on significant raw material cost increases through price increases to its customers. The Company’s results of operations in prior years, at times, have been negatively impacted by raw material cost increases. These fluctuations adversely affected the Company’s profitability. As a result of raw material cost increases, the Company may increase prices (which could result in reduced market share) or may choose to keep prices the same (which could result in decreased margins). The Company’s profitability in the future may be adversely affected due to continuing fluctuations in raw material prices. Additionally, the Company relies on its suppliers for deliveries of raw materials. If any of its suppliers are unable to deliver raw materials to the Company for an extended period of time, there is no assurance that the Company’s raw material requirements would be met by other suppliers on acceptable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s ability to achieve its growth objectives depends in part on the timing and market acceptance of its new products. The Company’s business plan includes the introduction of new products, which are both developed internally and obtained through acquisitions. The Company’s ability to introduce these products successfully depends on the demand for the products, as well as their price, quality, and related customer service. In the event the market does not accept these products or competitors introduce similar or superior products, the Company’s ability to expand its markets and generate organic growth could be negatively impacted which could have an adverse effect on its operating results. The Company’s competition and customer preferences could impact the Company’s profitability. The markets for the Company’s products are highly competitive. Competition in its markets is primarily based upon the quality, breadth and performance characteristics of its products, customer service and price. The Company’s ability to compete successfully depends upon a variety of factors, including its ability to increase plant efficiencies and reduce manufacturing costs, as well as its access to quality, low-cost raw materials. Some of the Company’s competitors may, at times, have lower raw material, energy and labor costs and less restrictive environmental and governmental regulations to comply with than the Company does. Other competitors may be larger in size or scope than the Company, which may allow them to achieve greater economies of scale on a global basis or allow them to better withstand periods of declining prices and adverse operating conditions. Demand for the Company’s products and, in turn, its revenue and profit margins, are affected by customer preferences and changes in customer ordering patterns which occur as a result of changes in inventory levels and timing of purchases which may be triggered by price changes and incentive programs. The Company’s customer contracts contain termination provisions that could decrease the Company’s future revenues and earnings. Most of the Company’s customer contracts can be terminated by the customer on short notice without penalty. The Company’s customers are, therefore, not contractually obligated to continue to do business with it in the future. This creates uncertainty with respect to the revenues and earnings the Company may recognize with respect to its customer contracts. 2 Table of Contents The Company’s manufacturing plant rationalization initiatives, manufacturing cost reduction programs and capital expenditure projects may result in higher costs and less savings than anticipated. The Company has implemented several manufacturing plant rationalization initiatives, manufacturing cost reduction programs and capital expenditure projects. Each may not be completed as planned and as a result, the costs and capital expenditures incurred by the Company may substantially exceed projections. This could potentially result in additional debt incurred by the Company, reduced production and elimination, or reduction of anticipated manufacturing cost savings. Acquisitions could expose the Company to significant business risks. The Company may make strategic acquisitions that could, among other goals, complement its existing products, expand its customer base and markets, improve distribution efficiencies and enhance its technological capabilities. Financial risks from these acquisitions include the use of the Company’s cash resources, paying a price that exceeds the future value realized from the acquisition, and incurring additional debt and liabilities (including potentially unknown liabilities). Further, there are possible operational risks including difficulty assimilating and integrating the operations, products, technology, information systems and personnel of acquired companies, losing key personnel of acquired entities, entry into markets in which the Company has no or limited prior experience, failure to obtain or retain intellectual property rights for certain products and difficulty honoring commitments made to customers of the acquired companies prior to the acquisition. The Company may incur significant acquisition, administrative and other costs in connection with these transactions, including costs related to the integration of acquired businesses. These acquisitions could expose the Company to significant integration risks and increased organizational complexity which may challenge management and may adversely impact the realization of an increased contribution from said acquisitions. The failure to adequately address these risks could adversely affect the Company’s business and financial performance. Although the Company performs due diligence investigations of the businesses and assets that it acquires, and anticipates continuing to do so for future acquisitions, there may be liabilities related to the acquired business or assets that the Company fails to, or is unable to, uncover during its due diligence investigation and for which the Company, as a successor owner, may be responsible. When feasible, the Company seeks to minimize the impact of these types of potential liabilities by obtaining indemnities and warranties from the seller, which may in some instances be supported by deferring payment of a portion of the purchase price. However, these indemnities and warranties, if obtained, may not fully cover the liabilities because of their limited scope, amount or duration, the financial resources of the indemnitor or warrantor, or other reasons. The Company’s Revolving Credit Facility contains covenants that limit its flexibility and prevents the Company from taking certain actions. The loan and security agreement governing the Company’s Revolving Credit Facility includes a number of significant restrictive covenants. These covenants could adversely limit the Company’s ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet its capital needs and execute its business strategy. These covenants, among other things, limit the Company’s ability and the ability of its subsidiaries to incur additional debt; prepay other debt; pay dividends and make other restricted payments; create or permit certain liens; issue or sell capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; use the proceeds from sales of assets; make certain investments; create or permit restrictions on the ability of the guarantors to pay dividends or to make other distributions to the Company; enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; engage in unrelated businesses; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and consolidate or merge or sell the Company’s assets substantially as an entirety. The Company depends on its subsidiaries for cash to meet its obligations and pay any dividends. The Company is a holding company. Its subsidiaries conduct all of its operations and own substantially all of its assets. Consequently, the Company’s cash flow and its ability to meet its obligations or pay dividends to its stockholders depend upon the cash flow of its subsidiaries and the payment of funds by its subsidiaries to the Company in the form of dividends, tax sharing payments or otherwise. The Company’s subsidiaries’ ability to provide funding will depend on, amongst others, their earnings, the terms of indebtedness from time to time, tax considerations and legal restrictions. Payment of dividends may not continue in the future, and the payment of dividends is subject to restriction. On August 14, 2013, the Board of Directors modified the Company’s dividend policy to provide for the payment of quarterly cash dividends as opposed to semi-annual cash dividends. On July 7, 2014, the Board of Directors further modified the 3 Table of Contents Company’s dividend policy to increase the annualized dividend by 50% from $0.32 to $0.48 per common share. The future declaration and payment of dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on a number of factors, including the Company’s financial and operating results, financial position, and anticipated cash requirements. The Company can give no assurance that dividends will be declared and paid in the future or, if declared and paid in the future, at the same level as in the past. Additionally, the Company’s Revolving Credit Facility restricts its ability to pay dividends if the Company does not maintain certain borrowing availability or if the Company is in default. The Company’s significant debt could adversely affect its financial condition. While the Company’s indebtedness has declined in recent years, it still has a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2014, the Company had outstanding debt of $123.3 million, which represented 13% of its total capitalization. Of such total debt, approximately $123.2 million, or all of the Company’s outstanding senior debt, was secured. The Company’s significant indebtedness could adversely affect its financial condition. The Company’s substantial indebtedness could also increase its vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flows from operating activities to payments on its indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of the Company’s cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, potential acquisitions, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit the Company’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which it operates; place the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt; and limit the Company’s ability to borrow additional funds on terms that are satisfactory to it or at all. The Company may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet its debt service obligations. The Company’s ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operating activities to make scheduled payments on its debt obligations will depend on its future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive, regulatory, legislative and business factors, many of which are outside of the Company’s control. If the Company does not generate sufficient cash flows from operating activities to satisfy its debt obligations, the Company may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring its debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. The Company cannot assure that any refinancing would be possible or that any assets could be sold on acceptable terms or otherwise. The Company’s inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy its debt obligations, or to refinance its obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any refinancing of the Company’s debt could be at higher interest rates and may require the Company to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict its business operations. Also, any additional issuances of equity would dilute the Company’s shareholders. Despite the Company’s level of indebtedness, it will be able to incur substantially more debt. Incurring such debt could further exacerbate the risks to the Company’s financial condition described above. The Company will be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although the loan and security agreement governing the Revolving Credit Facility contains restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. The restrictions also do not prevent the Company from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. To the extent new debt is added to the Company’s currently anticipated debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described above would increase. The failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with applicable securities laws could cause the Company’s stock price to decline. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as applicable Canadian securities laws require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting and a report by the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm to express an opinion on these controls based on their audit. Due to inherent limitations, there can be no assurance that the Company’s system of internal control over financial reporting will be successful in preventing all errors, theft, and fraud, or in informing management of all material information in a timely manner. Also, if the Company cannot in the future favorably assess, or the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of the Company’s financial reports, which could cause the Company’s stock price to decline. 4 Table of Contents The Company’s pension and other post-retirement benefit plans are unfunded which could require Company contributions. The Company’s pension and other post-retirement benefit plans currently have an unfunded deficit of $31.7 million as of December 31, 2014 as compared to $18.9 million at the end of 2013. For 2014 and 2013, the Company contributed $2.2 million and $4.3 million, respectively, to its funded pension plans and to beneficiaries for its unfunded other benefit plans. In addition, for 2014, the Company recognized non-cash settlement losses of $1.6 million resulting from the difference between the accounting liability and the cost to settle obligations related to the wind-up of a defined benefit plan associated with the former Brantford, Ontario manufacturing facility. The Company may need to divert certain of its resources in the future in order to resolve this funding deficit. In addition, the Company cannot predict whether a change in factors such as pension asset performance or interest rates, will require the Company to make a contribution in excess of its current expectations. Further, the Company may not have the funds necessary to meet future minimum pension funding requirements or be able to meet its pension benefit plan funding obligation through cash flows from operating activities. The Company depends on the proper functioning of its information systems. The Company is dependent on the proper functioning of information systems, some of which are owned and operated by third parties, to store, process and transmit confidential information, including financial reporting, inventory management, procurement, invoicing and electronic communications belonging to our customers, our suppliers, our employees and/or us. The Company’s information systems are vulnerable to natural disasters, fire, casualty theft, technical failures, terrorist acts, cyber security breaches, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software intrusions, computer viruses, and similar events. If the Company’s critical information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, our operations could be disrupted, causing a material adverse effect on our business. Also, any theft or misuse of information resulting from a security breach could result in, among other things, loss of significant and/or sensitive information, litigation by affected parties, financial obligations resulting from such theft or misuse, higher insurance premiums, governmental investigations, negative reactions from current and potential future customers (including potential negative financial ramifications under certain customer contract provisions) and poor publicity. Any of these consequences, in addition to the time and funds spent on monitoring and mitigating our exposure and responding to breaches, including the training of employees, the purchase of protective technologies and the hiring of additional employees and consultants to assist in these efforts, could adversely affect our financial results. The Company faces risks related to its international operations. The Company has customers and operations located outside the United States and Canada. In 2014, sales to customers located outside the United States and Canada represented approximately 10% of its sales. The Company’s international operations present it with a number of risks and challenges, including potential difficulties staffing and managing its foreign operations, potential adverse changes in tax regulations affecting tax rates and the way the United States and other countries tax multinational companies, the effective marketing of the Company’s products in other countries, tariffs and other trade barriers, less favorable intellectual property laws, longer customer payment cycles, exposure to economies that may be experiencing currency volatility or negative growth, and different regulatory schemes and political environments applicable to its operations in these areas, such as environmental and health and safety compliance. In addition, the Company’s financial statements are reported in US dollars while a portion of its sales is made in other currencies, primarily the Canadian dollar and the Euro. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates between the US dollar and foreign currencies can have a negative impact on the Company’s reported operating results and financial condition. Moreover, in some cases, the currency of the Company’s sales does not match the currency in which it incurs costs, which can negatively affect its profitability. Fluctuations in exchange rates can also affect the relative competitive position of a particular facility where the facility faces competition from non-local producers, as well as the Company’s ability to successfully market its products in export markets. The Company’s operations are subject to comprehensive environmental regulation and involve expenditures which may be material in relation to its operating cash flow. 5 Table of Contents The Company’s operations are subject to extensive environmental regulation in each of the countries in which it maintains facilities. For example, United States (federal, state and local) and Canadian (federal, provincial and local) environmental laws applicable to the Company include statutes and regulations intended to impose certain obligations with respect to site contamination and to allocate the cost of investigating, monitoring and remedying soil and groundwater contamination among specifically identified parties, as well as to prevent future soil and groundwater contamination; imposing ambient standards and, in some cases, emission standards, for air pollutants which present a risk to public health, welfare or the natural environment; governing the handling, management, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous wastes and substances; and regulating the discharge of pollutants into waterways. The Company’s use of hazardous substances in its manufacturing processes and the generation of hazardous wastes not only by the Company, but by prior occupants of its facilities, suggest that hazardous substances may be present at or near certain of the Company’s facilities or may come to be located there in the future. Consequently, the Company is required to closely monitor its compliance under all the various environmental laws and regulations applicable to it. In addition, the Company arranges for the off-site disposal of hazardous substances generated in the ordinary course of its business. The Company obtains Phase I or similar environmental site assessments, and Phase II environmental site assessments, if necessary, for most of the manufacturing facilities it owns or leases at the time it either acquires or leases such facilities. These assessments typically include general inspections and may involve soil sampling and/or groundwater analysis. The assessments have not revealed any environmental liability that, based on current information, the Company believes will have a material adverse effect on it. Nevertheless, these assessments may not reveal all potential environmental liabilities and current assessments are not available for all facilities. Consequently, there may be material environmental liabilities that the Company is not aware of. In addition, ongoing cleanup and containment operations may not be adequate for purposes of future laws and regulations. The conditions of the Company’s properties could also be affected in the future by neighboring operations or the conditions of the land in the vicinity of its properties. These developments and others, such as increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations, increasingly strict enforcement of environmental laws and regulations, or claims for damage to property or injury to persons resulting from the environmental, health or safety impact of its operations, may cause the Company to incur significant costs and liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on it. Except as described in Item 4B(8) below, the Company believes that all of its facilities are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations and that it has obtained, and is in material compliance with, all material permits required under environmental laws and regulations. Although certain of the Company’s facilities emit toluene and other pollutants into the air, these emissions are within current permitted limits. The Company’s facilities are required to maintain numerous environmental permits and governmental approvals for its operations. Some of the environmental permits and governmental approvals that have been issued to the Company or to its facilities contain conditions and restrictions, including restrictions or limits on emissions and discharges of pollutants and contaminants, or may have limited terms. If the Company fails to satisfy these conditions or to comply with these restrictions, it may become subject to enforcement actions and the operation of the relevant facilities could be adversely affected. The Company may also be subject to fines, penalties or additional costs. The Company may not be able to renew, maintain or obtain all environmental permits and governmental approvals required for the continued operation or further development of the facilities, as a result of which the operation of the facilities may be limited or suspended. The Company may become involved in litigation relating to its intellectual property rights, which could have an adverse impact on its business. The Company relies on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions to protect its proprietary technology. Litigation may be necessary to enforce these rights, which could result in substantial costs to the Company and a substantial diversion of management attention. If the Company does not adequately protect its intellectual property, its competitors or other parties could use the intellectual property that the Company has developed to enhance their products or make products similar to the Company’s and compete more efficiently with it, which could result in a decrease in the Company’s market share. While the Company has attempted to ensure that its products and the operations of its business do not infringe other parties’ patents and proprietary rights, its competitors or other parties may assert that the Company’s products and operations may infringe upon patents held by them. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, the Company might have products that infringe upon pending patents of which it is unaware. If any of the Company’s products infringe a valid 6 Table of Contents patent, it could be prevented from selling them unless the Company obtains a license or redesigns the products to avoid infringement. A license may not be available or may require the Company to pay substantial royalties. The Company may not be successful in attempts to redesign its products to avoid infringement. Infringement or other intellectual property claims, regardless of merit or ultimate outcome, can be expensive and time-consuming to resolve as well as divert management’s attention from the Company’s core business. The Company may become involved in labor disputes or employees could form or join unions increasing the Company’s costs to do business. Some of the Company’s employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Other employees are not part of a union and there are no assurances that such employees will not form or join a union. Any attempt by employees to form or join a union could result in increased labor costs and adversely affect the Company’s business, its financial condition and/or results of operations. Except for the strike which occurred at the Company’s Brantford, Ontario plant in 2008, which is now closed, the Company has never experienced any work stoppages due to employee related disputes. Management believes that it has a good relationship with its employees. There can be no assurance, however, that work stoppages or other labor disturbances will not occur in the future. Such occurrences could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. The Company may become involved in litigation which could have an adverse impact on its business. The Company, like other manufacturers and sellers, is subject to potential liabilities connected with its business operations, including potential liabilities and expenses associated with product defects, performance, reliability or delivery delays. The Company is threatened from time to time with, or is named as a defendant in, legal proceedings, including lawsuits based upon product liability, personal injury, breach of contract and lost profits or other consequential damages claims, in the ordinary course of conducting its business. A significant judgment against the Company, or the imposition of a significant fine or penalty resulting from a finding that the Company failed to comply with laws or regulations, or being named as a defendant on multiple claims could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Uninsured and underinsured losses and rising insurance costs could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company maintains property, business interruption, general liability, directors and officers liability and other ancillary insurance on such terms as it deems appropriate. This may result in insurance coverage that, in the event of a substantial loss, would not be sufficient to pay for the full current market value or current replacement cost of the Company’s lost investment. Not all risks are covered by insurance. The Company’s cost of maintaining property, general liability and business interruption insurance and director and officer liability insurance is significant. The Company could experience higher insurance premiums as a result of adverse claims experience or because of general increases in premiums by insurance carriers for reasons unrelated to its own claims experience. Generally, the Company’s insurance policies must be renewed annually. The Company’s ability to continue to obtain insurance at affordable premiums also depends upon its ability to continue to operate with an acceptable claims record. A significant increase in the number of claims against the Company, the assertion of one or more claims in excess of its policy limits, or the inability to obtain adequate insurance coverage at acceptable rates, or any insurance coverage at all, could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. The Company’s success depends upon retaining the services of its management team and key employees. The Company is dependent on its management team and expects that continued success will depend largely upon their efforts and abilities. The loss of the services of any key executive for any reason could have a material adverse effect the Company. Success also depends upon our ability to identify, develop, and retain qualified employees. 7 Table of Contents Product liability could adversely affect the Company’s business. Difficulties in product design, performance and reliability could result in lost sales, delays in customer acceptance of the Company’s products, customer complaints or lawsuits. Such difficulties could be detrimental to the Company’s market reputation. The Company’s products and the products supplied by third parties on behalf of the Company may not be error-free. Undetected errors or performance problems may be discovered in the future. The Company may not be able to successfully complete the development of planned or future products in a timely manner or adequately address product defects, which could harm the Company’s business and prospects. In addition, product defects may expose the Company to product liability claims, for which it may not have sufficient product liability insurance. Difficulties in product design, performance and reliability or product liability claims could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Because the Company is a Canadian company, it may be difficult to enforce rights under US bankruptcy laws. The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are incorporated under the laws of Canada and a substantial amount of its assets are located outside of the United States. Under bankruptcy laws in the United States, courts typically assert jurisdiction over a debtor’s property, wherever located, including property situated in other countries. However, courts outside of the United States may not recognize the United States bankruptcy court’s jurisdiction over property located outside of the territorial limits of the United States. Accordingly, difficulties may arise in administering a United States bankruptcy case involving a Canadian debtor with property located outside of the United States, and any orders or judgments of a bankruptcy court in the United States may not be enforceable outside the territorial limits of the United States. It may be difficult for investors to enforce civil liabilities against the Company under US federal and state securities laws. The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are incorporated under the laws of Canada. Certain of their directors are residents of Canada and a portion of directors’ and executive officers’ assets may be located outside of the United States. In addition, certain subsidiaries are located in other foreign jurisdictions. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for US investors to effect service of process within the United States upon the Company, its Canadian subsidiaries, or its other foreign subsidiaries, or those directors and officers, or to realize against them upon judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon the civil liability provisions of US federal securities laws or securities or blue sky laws of any state within the United States. The Company believes that a judgment of a US court predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and/or the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”) would likely be enforceable in Canada if the US court in which the judgment was obtained had a basis for jurisdiction in the matter that was recognized by a Canadian court for such purposes. The Company cannot assure that this will be the case. There is substantial doubt whether an action could be brought in Canada in the first instance on the basis of liability predicated solely upon such laws. While our shares trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange, they trade on the OTC Pink Marketplace in the US, which may result in the possible absence of a liquid trading market for securities of US investors. The Company’s common shares are traded in the US on the OTC Pink Marketplace. Trading on this market can be thin and characterized by wide fluctuations in trading prices, due to many factors that may have little to do with a company’s operations or business prospects. In addition, trading on this market is often sporadic, so shareholders may have some difficulty reselling any of their shares of common stock on this market. Compliance with the SEC’s new conflict mineral disclosure requirements results in additional compliance costs and may create reputational challenges. The SEC adopted rules pursuant to Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act setting forth disclosure requirements concerning the use or potential use of certain minerals and their derivatives, including tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten, that are mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, and deemed conflict minerals. These requirements have necessitated, and will continue to necessitate, due diligence efforts by the Company to assess whether such minerals are used in our products in order to make the relevant required disclosures. There are certain costs associated with complying with these new disclosure requirements, including diligence to determine the sources of those minerals that may be used or necessary to the production of the Company’s products. If the Company determines that certain of its products contain minerals that are not conflict-free or is unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in its products, the Company may face changes to its supply chain or challenges to its reputation, either of which could impact future sales. 8 Table of Contents The Company’s exemptions under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as a foreign private issuer limits the protections and information afforded investors. The Company is a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules promulgated under the Exchange Act. As such, it is exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States companies with securities registered under the Exchange Act, including: the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; and the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction (i.e., a purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, of the issuers’ equity securities within a period of less than six months). Because of these exemptions, purchasers of the Company’s securities are not afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors in public companies organized in the United States. Prior to December 31, 2000, the Company filed its annual reports on Form 20-F. Commencing with the year ended December 31, 2000 through December 31, 2007, and again for the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company filed its annual reports on Form 40-F. For the year ended December 31, 2008 and commencing for the year ended December 31, 2010 and going forward, the Company has elected to file its annual report on Form 20-F which also fulfills the requirements of the Annual Information Form required in Canada, thus necessitating only one report. The Company reports on Form 6-K with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and publicly releases quarterly financial reports. 