D. RISK FACTORS Current economic conditions and uncertain economic forecast adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial conditions. Unfavorable changes in the global economy have affected the demand for the Company’s products. Adverse economic conditions could also increase the likelihood of customer delinquencies. A prolonged period of economic decline would have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, gross margins, and the overall financial condition of the Company, as well as exacerbate the other risk factors set forth below. Fluctuations in the amount of available funds under the Company’s Asset Based Loan would restrict the Company’s ability to borrow under its revolving loan. The Company’s credit facility is an asset-backed loan. A reduction in the eligible assets and receivables included in the borrowing base or an increase in the required reserves will reduce the Company’s available credit under the Asset Based Loan (“ABL”). A decline in the borrowing base could also require an unscheduled repayment of funds already advanced in excess of the available credit amount. The Company’s Asset Based Loan contains a financial covenant which if not met, will result in an event of default. The Company’s ABL contains a fixed charge ratio which becomes effective only when unused availability under the borrowing base drops below $25 million. The Company’s failure to comply with this covenant could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the Company being required to repay these borrowings before their scheduled due date. If the Company were unable to make this repayment or otherwise refinance these borrowings, the lenders under the ABL could elect to declare all amounts borrowed under the Company’s ABL, together with accrued interest, to be due and payable, which, in some instances, would be an event of default under the Indenture governing the Senior Subordinated Notes. In addition, these lenders could foreclose on the Company’s assets. If the Company were unable to refinance these borrowings on favorable terms, the Company’s results of operations a nd financial condition could be adversely impacted by increased costs and less favorable terms, including interest rates and covenants. Any future refinancing of the Company’s ABL is likely to contain similar or more restrictive covenants and financial tests. The Company may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet its debt service obligations. The Company’s ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to make scheduled payments on its debt obligations will depend on its future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive, regulatory, legislative and business factors, many of which are outside of the Company’s control. If the Company does not generate sufficient cash flows from operations to satisfy its debt obligations, the Company may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring its debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. The Company cannot assure that any refinancing would be possible or that any assets could be sold on acceptable terms or otherwise. The Company’s inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy its debt obligations, or to refinance its obligations on commercially reasonable terms , would have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any refinancing of the Company’s debt could be at higher interest rates and may require the Company to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict its business operations. The Company’s substantial debt could adversely affect its financial condition and prevent it from fulfilling its obligations under its ABL or Senior Subordinated Notes. The Company has a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had outstanding debt of approximately $221 million, which represented 55% of its total capitalization. Of such total debt, approximately $92.6 million, or all of the Company’s outstanding senior debt, was secured. The Company’s substantial indebtedness could adversely affect its financial condition and make it more difficult for the Company to satisfy its obligations with respect to the Senior Subordinated Notes, as well as its obligations under its ABL. The Company’s substantial indebtedness could also increase its vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flows from operations to payments on its indebtedness, thereby 7 reducing the availability of the Company’s cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit the Company’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which it operates; place the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt; and limit the Company’s ability to borrow additional funds on terms that are satisfactory to it or at all. Fluctuations in raw material costs or the unavailability of raw materials may adversely affect the Company’s profitability. Intertape Polymer Group has historically been able to pass on significant raw material cost increases through price increases to its customers. Nevertheless, the Company’s results of operations for 2010 and certain individual quarters in prior years can and have been negatively impacted by raw material cost increases and decreases. These fluctuations adversely affected the Company’s profitability. As a result of raw material cost fluctuations, the Company has to either hold prices firm which results in a reduced market share or decrease prices which compresses the Company’s gross margins. The Company’s profitability in the future may be adversely affected due to continuing fluctuations in raw material prices. Additionally, the Company relies on its suppliers for deliveries of raw materials. If any of its suppliers were unable to deliver raw materials to the Company for an extended period of time, there is no assurance that the Company’s raw material requirements would be met by other suppliers on acceptable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Despite the Company’s level of indebtedness, it will be able to incur substantially more debt. Incurring such debt could further exacerbate the risks to the Company’s financial condition described above. The Company will be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although the Indenture governing the Senior Subordinated Notes and the loan and security agreement governing the ABL each contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. The restrictions also do not prevent the Company from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. To the extent new debt is added to the Company’s currently anticipated debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described above would increase. The Company’s Senior Subordinated Notes and ABL contain covenants that limit its flexibility and prevents the Company from taking certain actions. The Indenture governing the Company’s Senior Subordinated Notes and the loan and security agreement governing the Company’s ABL include a number of significant restrictive covenants. These covenants could adversely limit the Company’s ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet its capital needs and execute its business strategy. These covenants, among other things, limit the Company’s ability and the ability of its subsidiaries to incur additional debt; pay dividends and make other restricted payments; create or permit certain liens; issue or sell capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; use the proceeds from sales of assets; make certain investments; create or permit restrictions on the ability of the guarantors to pay dividends or to make other distributions to the Company; enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; engage in unrelated businesses; enter into sale and leaseback tr ansactions; and consolidate or merge or sell the Company’s assets substantially as an entirety. The Company’s ABL includes other and more restrictive covenants, some of which can restrict the Company’s ability to prepay its other debt. The Company’s litigation with Inspired Technologies, Inc. (“ITI”) could result in a significant verdict against the Company. In December 2010, the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida granted the Company’s post trial motion and reduced the amount of the initial jury award from $13,150,000 to $3,000,000 plus interest, costs and attorneys’ fees for a total of $3,382,775. Instead of accepting the remitted judgment offered by the Court, ITI requested a new trial. The second jury award entered a verdict of $700,000. ITI is now seeking an award of attorneys’ fees, costs, and interest. In its post-trial motions, ITI is also seeking reinstatement of the original jury award or the remitted judgment amount or, in the alternative, a new trial. It is also possible that the reduced jury award may be set aside on appeal. The Company may incur a loss as a result of the litigation; however, the amount of the contingent loss cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. A significant jud gment against the Company would adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. (For a full description of the pending ITI litigation, please see the “Litigation” section under “Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information”.) 8 The Company may incur higher and/or additional charges and costs than anticipated in connection with the closing of its Brantford, Ontario manufacturing facility. The Company has decided to close its Brantford, Ontario manufacturing facility due to the financial impact of the ongoing strike of the unionized employees at the facility. The non-cash charges may be higher than anticipated by the Company, there may be additional non-cash charges not foreseen, and the estimated amount of projected cash costs associated with the shutdown may be too low. Further, the anticipated positive impact the shutdown will have on the Company’s overall financial position may not be as great as forecasted. A downgrade of the Company’s credit ratings would have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to obtain credit and on the trading price of its common shares. The Company’s Senior Subordinated Notes are currently rated Caa1 by Moody Investor Services, Inc. and CCC- by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services, LLC. These ratings are considered below investment grade. In the event the Company’s credit ratings are downgraded, it would adversely affect the Company’s cost of borrowing, access to capital markets and trading price of its common shares. The failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could cause the Company’s stock price to decline. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as applicable Canadian securities laws require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting and a report by the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm attesting to and reporting on these assessments. If the Company fails to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, the Company may not be able to conclude that it has effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission or applicable Canadian securities laws. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2010. If the Company cannot in the future favorably assess, or the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on the Company’s assessment of, the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of the Company’s financial reports, which could cause the Company’s stock price to decline. The Company’s pension and post-retirement benefit plans are unfunded which could require Company contributions. The Company’s pension and post-retirement benefit plans currently have an unfunded deficit of $22.8 million as of December 31, 2010 as compared to $21.0 million at the end of 2009. For 2010 and 2009, the Company contributed $4.7 million and $3.4 million, respectively, to its funded pension plans and to beneficiaries for its unfunded other benefit plans. The Company may need to divert certain of its resources in the future in order to resolve this funding deficit. In addition, the Company cannot predict whether a change in factors such as pension asset performance or interest rates, will require the Company to make a contribution in excess of its current expectations. Further, the Company may not have the funds necessary to meet future minimum pension funding requirements or be able to meet its pension benefit plan funding obligation through cash flows from operations. The Company’s ability to achieve its growth objectives depends in part on the timing and market acceptance of its new products. Intertape Polymer Group’s business plan involves the introduction of new products, which are both developed internally and obtained through acquisitions. The Company’s ability to introduce these products successfully depends on the demand for the products, as well as their price and quality. In the event the market does not accept these products or competitors introduce similar products, the Company’s ability to expand its markets and generate organic growth could be negatively impacted which could have an adverse affect on its operating results. 9 The Company’s competition and customer preferences could impact the Company’s profitability. The markets for Intertape Polymer Group’s products are highly competitive. Competition in its markets is primarily based upon the quality, breadth and performance characteristics of its products, customer service and price. The Company’s ability to compete successfully depends upon a variety of factors, including its ability to maintain high plant efficiencies and operating rates and low manufacturing costs, as well as its access to quality, low-cost raw materials. Some of the Company’s competitors may, at times, have lower raw material, energy and labor costs and less restrictive environmental and governmental regulations to comply with than the Company does. Other competitors may be larger in size or scope than the Company, which may allow them to achieve greater economies of scale on a global basis or allow them to better withstand periods of declining prices and adverse operating conditions. Demand for the Company’s products and, in turn, its revenue and profit margins, are affected by customer preferences and changes in customer ordering patterns which occur as a result of changes in inventory levels and timing of purchases which may be triggered by price changes and incentive programs. The Company’s customer contracts contain termination provisions that could decrease our future revenues and earnings. Most of the Company’s customer contracts can be terminated by the customer on short notice without penalty. The Company’s customers are, therefore, not contractually obligated to continue to do business with us in the future. This creates uncertainty with respect to the revenues and earnings the Company may recognize with respect to its customer contracts. Intertape Polymer Group faces risks related to its international operations. The Company has customers and operations located outside the United States and Canada. In 2010, sales to customers located outside the United States and Canada represented approximately 10% of its sales. The Company’s international operations present it with a number of risks and challenges, including the effective marketing of the Company’s products in other countries; tariffs and other trade barriers; and different regulatory schemes and political environments applicable to its operations in these areas, such as environmental and health and safety compliance. In addition, the Company’s financial statements are reported in U.S. dollars while a portion of its sales is made in other currencies, primarily the Canadian dollar and the Euro. A portion of the Company’s debt is also denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies can have a negative impact on the Company’s reported operating results and financial condition. Moreover, in some cases, the currency of the Company’s sales does not match the currency in which it incurs costs, which can negatively affect its profitability. Fluctuations in exchange rates can also affect the relative competitive position of a particular facility where the facility faces competition from non-local producers, as well as the Company’s ability to successfully market its products in export markets. The Company’s operations are subject to comprehensive environmental regulation and involve expenditures which may be material in relation to its operating cash flow. The Company’s operations are subject to extensive environmental regulation in each of the countries in which it maintains facilities. For example, United States (Federal, state and local) and Canadian (Federal, provincial and local) environmental laws applicable to the Company include statutes and regulations intended to impose certain obligations with respect to site contamination and to allocate the cost of investigating, monitoring and remedying soil and groundwater contamination among specifically identified parties, as well as to prevent future soil and groundwater contamination; imposing national ambient standards and, in some cases, emission standards, for air pollutants which present a risk to public health, welfare or the natural environment; governing the handling, management, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous wastes and substances; and regulating the discharge of pollutants into waterways. The Company’s use of hazardous substances in its manufacturing processes and the generation of hazardous wastes not only by the Company, but by prior occupants of its facilities suggest that hazardous substances may be present at or near certain of the Company’s facilities or may come to be located there in the future. Consequently, the Company is required to monitor closely its compliance under all the various environmental laws and regulations applicable to it. In addition, the Company arranges for the off-site disposal of hazardous substances generated in the ordinary course of its business. 10 The Company obtains Phase I or similar environmental site assessments, and Phase II environmental site assessments, if necessary, for most of the manufacturing facilities it owns or leases at the time it either acquires or leases such facilities. These assessments typically include general inspections and may involve soil sampling and/or ground water analysis. The assessments have not revealed any environmental liability that, based on current information, the Company believes will have a material adverse effect on it. Nevertheless, these assessments may not reveal all potential environmental liabilities and current assessments are not available for all facilities. Consequently, there may be material environmental liabilities that the Company is not aware of. In addition, ongoing clean up and containment operations may not be adequate for purposes of future laws and regulations. The conditions of the Company’s properties cou ld also be affected in the future by neighboring operations or the conditions of the land in the vicinity of its properties. These developments and others, such as increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations, increasingly strict enforcement of environmental laws and regulations, or claims for damage to property or injury to persons resulting from the environmental, health or safety impact of its operations, may cause the Company to incur significant costs and liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on it. Except as described in Item 4B(8) below, the Company believes that all of its facilities are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations and that it has obtained, and is in material compliance with, all material permits required under environmental laws and regulations. Although certain of the Company’s facilities emit toluene and other pollutants into the air, these emissions are within current permitted limitations. The Company believes that these emissions from its U.S. facilities will meet the applicable future federal Maximum Available Control Technology ("MACT") requirements, although additional testing or modifications at the facilities may be required. The Company believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters should not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s facilities are required to maintain numerous environmental permits and governmental approvals for its operations. Some of the environmental permits and governmental approvals that have been issued to the Company or to its facilities contain conditions and restrictions, including restrictions or limits on emissions and discharges of pollutants and contaminants, or may have limited terms. If the Company fails to satisfy these conditions or to comply with these restrictions, it may become subject to enforcement actions and the operation of the relevant facilities could be adversely affected. The Company may also be subject to fines, penalties or additional costs. The Company may not be able to renew, maintain or obtain all environmental permits and governmental approvals required for the continued operation or further development of the facilities, as a result of which the operation of the facilities may be limite d or suspended. The Company may become involved in litigation relating to its intellectual property rights, which could have an adverse impact on its business. Intertape Polymer Group relies on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions to protect its proprietary technology. Litigation may be necessary to enforce these rights, which could result in substantial costs to the Company and a substantial diversion of management attention. If the Company does not adequately protect its intellectual property, its competitors or other parties could use the intellectual property that the Company has developed to enhance their products or make products similar to the Company’s and compete more efficiently with it, which could result in a decrease in the Company’s market share. While the Company has attempted to ensure that its products and the operations of its business do not infringe other parties patents and proprietary rights, its competitors or other parties may assert that the Company’s products and operations may be covered by patents held by them. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be applications now pending of which the Company is unaware, which may later result in issued patents which the Company’s products may infringe. If any of the Company’s products infringe a valid patent, it could be prevented from selling them unless the Company can obtain a license or redesign the products to avoid infringement. A license may not always be available or may require the Company to pay substantial royalties. The Company may not be successful in any attempt to redesign any of its products to avoid any infringement. Infringement or other intelle ctual property claims, regardless of merit or ultimate outcome, can be expensive and time-consuming and can divert management's attention from the Company’s core business. The Company may become involved in labor disputes or employees could form or join unions increasing the Company’s costs to do business. Some of Intertape Polymer Group’s employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Other employees are not part of a union and there are no assurances that such employees will not form or join a union. Any attempt by employees to 11 form or join a union could result in increased labor costs and adversely affect the Company’s business, its financial condition and/or results of operations. Except for the current strike at the Company’s Brantford, Ontario plant, the Company has never experienced any work stoppages due to employee related disputes. Management believes that it has a good relationship with its employees. There can be no assurance that work stoppages, or other labor disturbances will not occur in the future. Such occurrences could adversely affect Intertape Polymer Group’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. The Company may become involved in litigation which could have an adverse impact on its business. Intertape Polymer Group, like other manufacturers and sellers, is subject to potential liabilities connected with its business operations, including potential liabilities and expenses associated with product defects, performance, reliability or delivery delays. Intertape Polymer Group is threatened from time to time with, or is named as a defendant in, legal proceedings, including lawsuits based upon product liability, personal injury, breach of contract and lost profits or other consequential damages claims, in the ordinary course of conducting its business. A significant judgment against Intertape Polymer Group, or the imposition of a significant fine or penalty, as a result of a finding that the Company failed to comply with laws or regulations, or being named as a defendant on multiple claims could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Uninsured and underinsured losses and rising insurance costs could adversely affect the Company’s business. Intertape Polymer Group maintains property, general liability and business interruption insurance and directors and officers liability insurance on such terms as it deems appropriate. This may result in insurance coverage that, in the event of a substantial loss, would not be sufficient to pay for the full current market value or current replacement cost of the Company’s lost investment. Not all risks are covered by insurance. Intertape Polymer Group’s cost of maintaining property general liability and business interruption insurance and director and officer liability insurance is significant. The Company could experience higher insurance premiums as a result of adverse claims experience or because of general increases in premiums by insurance carriers for reasons unrelated to its own claims experience. Generally, the Company’s insurance policies must be renewed annually. Intertape Polymer Group’s ability to continue to obtain insurance at affordable premiums also depends upon its ability to continue to operate with an acceptable claims record. A significant increase in the number of claims against the Company, the assertion of one or more claims in excess of its policy limits or the inability to obtain adequate insurance coverage at acceptable rates, or at all, could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and/ or results of operations. Product liability could adversely affect the Company’s business. Difficulties in product design, performance and reliability could result in lost sales, delays in customer acceptance of Intertape Polymer Group’s products and lawsuits and would be detrimental to the Company’s market reputation. Intertape Polymer Group’s products and the products supplied by third parties, on behalf of the Company, are not error free. Undetected errors or performance problems may be discovered in the future. The Company may not be able to successfully complete the development of planned or future products in a timely manner or to adequately address product defects, which could harm the Company’s business and prospects. In addition, product defects may expose Intertape Polymer Group to product liability claims, for which it may not have sufficient product liability insurance. Difficulties in product design, performance and reliability or product liability claims could adversely affect Intertap e Polymer Group's business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Acquisitions have been a substantial part of the Company’s growth strategy, which could expose it to significant business risks. An important aspect of Intertape Polymer Group’s business strategy was to make strategic acquisitions that would complement its existing products, expand its customer base and markets, improve distribution efficiencies and enhance its technological capabilities. Financial risks from these acquisitions include the use of the Company’s cash resources and incurring additional debt and liabilities. Further, there are possible operational risks including difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, products, technology, information systems and personnel of acquired companies; the loss of key personnel of acquired entities; the entry into markets in which the Company has no or limited prior experience; and difficulties honoring 12 commitments made to customers of the acquired companies prior to the acquisition. The failure to adequately address these risks could adversely affect the Company’s business. Although the Company performs due diligence investigations of the businesses or assets that it acquires, and anticipates continuing to do so for future acquisitions, there may be liabilities related to the acquired business or assets that the Company fails to, or is unable to, uncover during its due diligence investigation and for which the Company, as a successor owner, may be responsible. When feasible, the Company seeks to minimize the impact of these types of potential liabilities by obtaining indemnities and warranties from the seller, which may in some instances be supported by deferring payment of a portion of the purchase price. However, these indemnities and warranties, if obtained, may not fully cover the liabilities because of their limited scope, amount or duration, the financial resources of the indemnitor or warrantor or other reasons. Because Intertape Polymer Group is a Canadian company, it may be difficult to enforce rights under U.S. bankruptcy laws. Intertape Polymer Group and certain of its subsidiaries are incorporated under the laws of Canada and a substantial amount of its assets are located outside of the United States. Under bankruptcy laws in the United States, courts typically assert jurisdiction over a debtor's property, wherever located, including property situated in other countries. However, courts outside of the United States may not recognize the United States bankruptcy court's jurisdiction over property located outside of the territorial limits of the United States. Accordingly, difficulties may arise in administering a United States bankruptcy case involving a Canadian debtor with property located outside of the United States, and any orders or judgments of a bankruptcy court in the United States may not be enforceable outside the territorial limits of the United States. It may be difficult for investors to enforce civil liabilities against Intertape Polymer Group under U.S. federal and state securities laws. Intertape Polymer Group and certain of its subsidiaries are incorporated under the laws of Canada. Certain of their directors and executive officers are residents of Canada and a portion of their assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, certain subsidiaries are located in other foreign jurisdictions. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to effect service of process within the United States upon Intertape Polymer Group, its Canadian subsidiaries, or its other foreign subsidiaries, or those directors and officers or to realize against them upon judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws or securities or blue sky laws of any state within the United States. The Company believes that a judgment of a U.S. court predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 , as amended and/or the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”) would likely be enforceable in Canada if the U.S. court in which the judgment was obtained had a basis for jurisdiction in the matter that was recognized by a Canadian court for such purposes. The Company cannot assure that this will be the case. There is substantial doubt whether an action could be brought in Canada in the first instance on the basis of liability predicated solely upon such laws. The Company’s exemptions under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as a foreign private issuer limits the protections and information afforded investors. Intertape Polymer Group is a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules promulgated under the Exchange Act. As such, it is exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States companies with securities registered under the Exchange Act, including: the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; and the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any "short-swing" trading transaction (i.e., a purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, of the issuers’ equity securities within a period of les s than six months). Because of these exemptions, purchasers of Intertape Polymer Group’s securities are not afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors in public companies organized in the United States. Prior to December 31, 2000, the Company filed its annual reports on Form 20-F. Commencing with the year ended December 31, 2000 through December 31, 2007, and again for the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company filed its annual reports on Form 40-F. For the year ended December 31, 2008, and again this year, Intertape Polymer Group will file its annual report on Form 20-F. Intertape Polymer Group reports on Form 6-K with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and publicly releases quarterly financial reports. 13 