ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company faces a number of significant risks associated with its current plan of operations. These include the following: The effects of the recent global economic crisis has had an impact our business, operating results, and financial condition, and the rate of recovery is uncertain. The recent global economic crisis has caused disruptions and extreme volatility in global financial markets and increased rates of default and bankruptcy, and has impacted levels of consumer spending. It has tightened the supply of investment capital. These macroeconomic developments and the unpredictable rate of recovery could continue to negatively affect our business, operating results, and financial condition in a number of ways. Our limited operating history makes evaluation of our business difficult. We have limited historical financial data upon which to base planned operating expenses or forecast accurately our future operating results. Further, our limited operating history will make it difficult for investors and securities analysts to evaluate our business and prospects. Our failure to address these risks and difficulties successfully could seriously harm us. We have never generated any significant revenues, have a history of losses, and cannot assure you that we will ever become or remain profitable. We have not yet generated any significant revenue from operations and, accordingly, we have incurred net losses every year since our inception. To date, we have dedicated most of our financial resources to research and development, general and administrative expenses and initial sales and marketing activities. We have funded the majority of our activities through sales of our debt or securities. We anticipate net losses and negative cash flow to continue for the foreseeable future until such time as licensing or operating revenue is generated in sufficient amounts to offset operating losses. Our ability to achieve profitability is dependent upon our continuing research and development, product development, and sales and marketing efforts, and our ability to successfully license our technology. There can be no assurance that our revenues will be sufficient for us to become profitable or thereafter maintain profitability. We may also face unforeseen problems, difficulties, expenses or delays in implementing our business plan. Our cash requirements are significant. The failure to raise additional capital will have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and its operations. Our cash requirements and expenses will continue to be significant. Our net cash used in continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 was $2,032,804 and $1,716,324, respectively. These negative cash flows are primarily related to operating losses and, to a lesser extent, fluctuations in working capital items. We continue to use cash in 2013 as it becomes available and we anticipate that we will require significant additional financing for working capital requirements for the foreseeable future to continue the development, marketing and licensure of our technology and products based on our technology. Although we have been successful in raising funds in the past, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully raise funds in the future, especially in light of current adverse conditions in the capital markets and the weak economy generally. The failure to raise additional capital will have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition, our operations, and our ability to market and sell our products. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on our ability to raise capital. - 13 - From time to time, we issue stock, instead of cash, to pay some of our operating expenses. These issuances are dilutive to our existing stockholders. We are party to agreements that provide for the payment of, or permit us to pay at our option, securities in consideration for services provided to us. All such issuances are dilutive to our stockholders because they increase the total number of shares of our common stock issued and outstanding, even though such arrangements assist us with managing our cash flow at a time of increasing operating expenses coupled with decreased and further decreasing liquidity. Our stockholders face further potential dilution in any new financing. Any additional equity that we raise would dilute the interest of the current stockholders and any persons who may become stockholders before such financing. Given the low price of our common stock, such dilution in any financing of a significant amount could be substantial. Our stockholders face further potential adverse effects from the terms of any preferred stock which may be issued in the future. In order to raise capital to meet expenses or to acquire a business, our Board of Directors may issue additional stock, including preferred stock. Any preferred stock which we may issue may have voting rights, liquidation preferences, redemption rights and other rights, preferences and privileges. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and in many respect subordinate to, the rights of the holders of any such preferred stock. Furthermore, such preferred stock may have other rights, including economic rights, senior to our common stock that could have a material adverse effect on the value of our common stock. Preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, can also have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock, thereby delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company. There are several specific business opportunities we are considering in further development of our business. None of these opportunities is yet the subject of a definitive agreement and most or all of these opportunities will require additional funding obligations on our part, for which funding is not currently in place. In furtherance of our business plan, we are presently considering a number of opportunities to promote our business, to further develop and broaden, and to license, our technology with third parties. While discussions are underway with respect to such opportunities, there are no definitive agreements in place with respect to any of such opportunities at this time, other than the distribution agreement with Central Garden & Pet discussed below. There can be no assurance that any such opportunities being discussed will result in definitive agreements or, if definitive agreements are entered into, that they will be on terms that are favorable to us. Moreover, should any of these opportunities result in definitive agreements being entered into, we may be required to expend additional monies above and beyond our current operating budget to promote such endeavors. No such financing is in place at this time for such endeavors and we cannot assure you that any such financing will be available, or if it is available whether it will be on terms that are favorable to the company. The cost of maintaining our public company reporting obligations is high. We are obligated to maintain our periodic public filings and public reporting requirements, on a timely basis, under the Rules and Regulations of the SEC. In order to meet these obligations, we will need to continue to raise capital. If adequate funds are not available, we will be unable to comply with those requirements and could cease to be qualified to have our stock traded in the public market. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as related rules adopted by the SEC, has imposed substantial requirements on public companies, including certain corporate governance practices and requirements relating to internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. - 14 - We expect to incur future losses and may not be able to achieve profitability. Although we are generating limited revenue from the sale of our products, and we expect to generate revenue from new products we are introducing, and eventually from other license or supply agreements, we anticipate net losses and negative cash flow to continue for the foreseeable future until such time as our products are expanded in the marketplace and they gain broader acceptance by resellers and customers. Our current level of sales is not sufficient to support the financial needs of our business. We cannot predict when sales volumes will be sufficiently large to cover our operating expenses. We intend to expand our marketing efforts of our products as financial resources are available, and we intend to continue to expand our research and development efforts. Consequently, we will need to generate significant additional revenue or seek additional funding to fund our operations. This has put a proportionate corresponding demand on capital. Our ability to achieve profitability is dependent upon our efforts to deliver a viable product and our ability to successfully bring it to market, which we are currently pursuing. Although our management is optimistic that we will succeed in licensing our technology, we cannot be certain as to timing or whether we will generate sufficient revenue to be able to operate profitably. If we cannot achieve or sustain profitability, we may not be able to fund our expected cash needs or continue our operations. If we are not able to devote adequate resources to promote commercialization of our technology, our business plans will suffer and may fail. Because we have limited resources to devote to sales, marketing and licensing efforts with respect to our technology, any delay in such efforts may jeopardize future research and development of technologies, and commercialization of our technology. Although our management believes that it can finance commercialization efforts through sales of our securities and possibly other capital sources, if we do not successfully bring our technology to market, our ability to generate revenues will be adversely affected. We do not believe that Central Garden & Pet Company will maintain exclusive rights in the “pet supplies industry”. In March 2011, we entered into a license and supply agreement with Central Garden & Pet Company, one of the largest premium pet product companies in the United States. The agreement grants to Central exclusive rights in the “pet supplies industry”, as that term is defined in the agreement, for a period of two years from the date of the agreement, which period can be extended if Central purchases a specific minimum amount of product from us. We do not believe Central will meet the minimum purchase requirements in the agreement to maintain its exclusivity in the “pet supplies industry”, and on February 11, 2013, provided notice pursuant to our contract giving Central 60 days to do so. If we are not able to manage our anticipated growth effectively, we may not become profitable. We anticipate that expansion will continue to be required to address potential market opportunities for our technology and our products. Our existing infrastructure is limited, is not scalable, and will not support future growth, if any. There can be no assurance that we will have the financial resources to create new infrastructure, or that any such infrastructure will be sufficiently scalable to manage future growth, if any. There also can be no assurance that if we invest in additional infrastructure, we will be effective in expanding our operations or that our systems, procedures or controls will be adequate to support such expansion. In addition, we will need to provide additional sales and support services to our partners if we achieve our anticipated growth with respect to the sale of our technology for various applications. Failure to properly manage an increase in customer demands could result in a material adverse effect on customer satisfaction, our ability to meet our contractual obligations, and on our operating results. - 15 - Some of the products incorporating our technology will require regulatory approval. The products in which our technology may be incorporated have both regulated and non-regulated applications. The regulatory approvals for certain applications may be difficult, impossible, time consuming and or expensive to obtain. While our management believes such approvals can be obtained for the applications contemplated, until those approvals from the FDA or the EPA or other regulatory bodies, if required, at the federal and state levels, as may be required are obtained, then we may not be able to generate commercial revenues. Certain specific regulated applications and its use therein require highly technical analysis, additional third party validation and will require regulatory approvals from organizations like the FDA. Certain applications may also be subject to additional state and local agency regulations, increasing the cost and time associated with commercial strategies. Additionally, most products incorporating our technology that may be sold in the European Union (“EU”) will require EU and possibly also individual country regulatory approval. All such approvals, including additional testing, are time-consuming, expensive and do not have assured outcomes of ultimate regulatory approval. We need to outsource and rely on third parties for the manufacture of the chemicals, material components or delivery apparatus used in our technology and part of our future success will be dependent on the timeliness and effectiveness of the efforts of these third parties. We do not have the required financial and human resources or capability to manufacture the chemicals that comprise our technology. Our business model calls for the outsourcing of the manufacture of these chemicals in order to reduce our capital and infrastructure costs as a means of potentially improving our financial position and the profitability of our business. Accordingly, we must enter into agreements with other companies that can assist us and provide certain capabilities, including sourcing and manufacturing, which we do not possess. We may not be successful in entering into such alliances on favorable terms or at all. Even if we do succeed in securing such agreements, we may not be able to maintain them. Furthermore, any delay in entering into agreements could delay the development and commercialization of our technology or reduce its competitiveness even if they reach the market. Any such delay related to such future agreements could adversely affect our business. If any party to which we have outsourced certain functions fails to perform its obligations under agreements with us, the commercialization of our technology could be delayed or curtailed. To the extent that we rely on other companies to manufacture the chemicals used in our technology, or sell or market products incorporating our technology, we will be dependent on the timeliness and effectiveness of their efforts. If any of these parties does not perform its obligations in a timely and effective manner, the commercialization of our technology could be delayed or curtailed because we may not have sufficient financial resources or capabilities to continue such efforts on our own. - 16 - We rely on a small number of key supply ingredients in order to manufacture our products All of the supply ingredients used to manufacture our products are readily available from multiple suppliers. However, commodity prices for these ingredients can vary significantly and the margins that we are able to generate could decline if prices rise. If our manufacturing costs rise significantly, we may be forced to raise the prices for our products, which may reduce their acceptance in the marketplace. If our technology or products incorporating our technology do not gain market acceptance, it is unlikely that we will become profitable. The potential markets for products into which our technology can be incorporated are rapidly evolving, and we have many successful competitors. At this time, our technology is unproven in its commercial use, and the use of our technology by others is nominal. The commercial success of products incorporating our technology will depend upon the adoption of our technology by commercial and consumer end users in various fields. Market acceptance may depend on many factors, including: • the willingness and ability of consumers and industry partners to adopt new technologies; • our ability to convince potential industry partners and consumers that our BioLargo technology is an attractive alternative to other technologies for disinfection, sanitization, remediation, reduction of disease transfer and as a protective and safety device against biohazardous materials; • our ability to obtain the chemicals from third parties that are used in our BioLargo technology, in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality and at an acceptable cost; and • our ability to license our BioLargo technology in a commercially effective manner. If products incorporating our technology do not achieve a significant level of market acceptance, demand for our technology itself may not develop as expected and, in such event, it is unlikely that we will become profitable. Any revenues that we may earn in the future are unpredictable, and our operating results are likely to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. We believe that our future operating results will fluctuate due to a variety of factors, including: • delays in product development by us or third parties; • market acceptance of products incorporating our BioLargo technology; • changes in the demand for, and pricing, of products incorporating our BioLargo technology; • competition and pricing pressure from competitive products; • manufacturing delays; and • expenses related to, and the results of, proceedings relating to our intellectual property. - 17 - We expect our operating expenses will continue to fluctuate significantly in 2013 and beyond, as we continue our research and development, and increase our marketing and licensing activities. Although we expect to generate revenues from licensing our technology in the future, revenues may decline or not grow as anticipated and our operating results could be substantially harmed for a particular fiscal period. Moreover, our operating results in some quarters may not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. In that case, our stock price most likely would decline. We have no product distribution experience and we expect to rely on third parties who may not successfully sell our products. We have no product distribution experience and currently rely and plan to rely primarily on product distribution arrangements with third parties. We also plan to license our technology to certain third parties for commercialization of certain applications. We expect to enter into additional distribution agreements and licensing agreements in the future, and we may not be able to enter into these additional agreements on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. In addition, we may have limited or no control over the distribution activities of these third parties. These third parties could sell competing products and may devote insufficient sales efforts to our products. As a result, our future revenues from sales of our products, if any, will depend on the success of the efforts of these third parties. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified senior personnel. We believe we are currently able to manage our current business with our existing management team. However, as we expand the scope of our operations, we will need to obtain the full-time services of additional senior management and other personnel. Competition for highly-skilled personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain qualified senior personnel. Our failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our ability to implement our business plan. As we add full-time senior personnel, our overhead expenses for salaries and related items will increase from current levels and, depending upon the number of personnel we hire and their compensation packages, these increases could be substantial. If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to achieve profitability. Our future success is substantially dependent on the efforts of our senior management, particularly Dennis P. Calvert, our president and chief executive officer, and Kenneth Reay Code, our chief science officer. The loss of the services of either of these officers or other members of our senior management may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of product development and other business objectives. Because of the scientific nature of our business, we depend substantially on our ability to attract and retain qualified marketing, scientific and technical personnel. There is intense competition among specialized and technologically-oriented companies for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities. If we lose the services of, or do not successfully recruit key marketing, scientific and technical personnel, the growth of our business could be substantially impaired. At present, we do not maintain key man insurance for any of our senior management, although management is evaluating the potential of securing this type of insurance in the future as may be available. Nondisclosure agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we rely in part on nondisclosure agreements with our employees, potential licensing partners, potential manufacturing partners, testing facilities, universities, consultants, agents and other organizations to which we disclose our proprietary information. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Since we rely on trade secrets and nondisclosure agreements, in addition to patents, to protect some of our intellectual property, there is a risk that third parties may obtain and improperly utilize our proprietary information to our competitive disadvantage. We may not be able to detect unauthorized use or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. - 18 - We may become subject to product liability claims. As a business which manufactures and markets products for use by consumers and institutions, we may become liable for any damage caused by our products, whether used in the manner intended or not. Any such claim of liability, whether meritorious or not, could be time-consuming and/or result in costly litigation. Although we maintain general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of the types described above and may not be adequate to indemnify for all liabilities that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage could harm our business and operating results, and you may lose some or all of any investment you have made, or may make, in our company. Litigation or the actions of regulatory authorities may harm our business or otherwise distract our management. Substantial, complex or extended litigation could cause us to incur major expenditures and distract our management. For example, lawsuits by employees, former employees, shareholders, partners, customers, or others, or actions taken by regulatory authorities, could be very costly and substantially disrupt our business. Such lawsuits or actions could from time to time be filed against the Company and/or or our executive officers and directors. Such lawsuits and actions are not uncommon, and we cannot assure you that we will always be able to resolve such disputes or actions on terms favorable to the Company. If we suffer negative publicity concerning the safety or efficacy of our products, our sales may be harmed If concerns should arise about the safety or efficacy of any of our products that are marketed, regardless of whether or not such concerns have a basis in generally accepted science or peer-reviewed scientific research, such concerns could adversely affect the market for those products. Similarly, negative publicity could result in an increased number of product liability claims, whether or not those claims are supported by applicable law. The licensing of our technology or the manufacture, use or sale of products incorporating our technology may infringe on the patent rights of others, and we may be forced to litigate if an intellectual property dispute arises. If we infringe or are alleged to have infringed another party’s patent rights, we may be required to seek a license, defend an infringement action or challenge the validity of the patents in court. Patent litigation is costly and time consuming. We may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions to a successful conclusion. In addition, if we do not obtain a license, do not successfully defend an infringement action or are unable to have infringed patents declared invalid, we may: • incur substantial monetary damages; - 19 - • encountersignificant delays in marketing our current and proposed product candidates; • be unable to conduct or participate in the manufacture, use or sale of product candidates or methods of treatment requiring licenses; • lose patent protection for our inventions and products; or • find our patents are unenforceable, invalid, or have a reduced scope of protection. Parties making such claims may be able to obtain injunctive relief that could effectively block the company’s ability to further develop or commercialize our current and proposed product candidates in the United States and abroad and could result in the award of substantial damages. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any such license could substantially harm the company. Litigation, regardless of outcome, could result in substantial cost to, and a diversion of efforts by, the Company. Our patents are expensive to maintain, our patent applications are expensive to prosecute, and thus we are unable to file for patent protection in many countries. Our ability to compete effectively will depend in part on our ability to develop and maintain proprietary aspects of our technology and either to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others or to obtain rights to technology owned by third parties. Pending patent applications relating to our technology may not result in the issuance of any patents or any issued patents that will offer protection against competitors with similar technology. We must employ patent attorneys to prosecute our patent applications both in the United States and internationally. International patent protection requires the retention of patent counsel in multiple foreign countries and the payment of patent application fees in multiple foreign countries on or before filing deadlines set forth by the International Patent Cooperation Treaty (“PCT”). We therefore choose to file patent applications only in foreign countries where we believe the commercial opportunities require it, considering our available finances and the needs for our technology. This has resulted, and will continue to result, in the irrevocable loss of patent rights in all but a few foreign jurisdictions. Patents we receive may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented in the future or the rights created by those patents may not provide a competitive advantage. We also rely on trade secrets, technical know-how and continuing invention to develop and maintain our competitive position. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. We are subject to risks related to future business outside of North America. Over time, we may develop business relationships outside of North America, and as those efforts are pursued, we will face risks related to those relationships such as: • foreign currency fluctuations; • unstable political, economic, financial and market conditions; • import and export license requirements; • trade restrictions; • increases in tariffs and taxes; - 20 - • high levels of inflation; • restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United States; • greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable and longer payment cycles; • less favorable intellectual property laws; • Regulatory requirements; • unfamiliarity with foreign laws and regulations; and • changes in labor conditions and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. The volatility of certain raw material costs may adversely affect operations and competitive price advantages for products that incorporate our technology. Most of the chemicals and other key materials that we use in our business, such as minerals, fiber materials, and packaging materials, are neither generally scarce nor price sensitive, but prices for such chemicals and materials can be cyclical. SAP beads, which are a petrochemical derivative, have been subject to periodic scarcity and price volatility from time to time during recent years, although prices are relatively stable at present. Should the volume of our sales increase dramatically, we may have difficulty obtaining SAP beads or other raw materials at a favorable price. Supply and demand factors, which are beyond our control, generally affect the price of our raw materials. We try to minimize the effect of price increases through production efficiency and the use of alternative suppliers. If we are unable to minimize the effects of increased raw material costs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. Our common stock is thinly traded and largely illiquid. Our stock is currently quoted on the OTC Markets (OTCQB). Being quoted on the OTCQB has made it more difficult to buy or sell our stock and from time to time has led to a significant decline in the frequency of trades and trading volume. Continued trading on the OTCQB will also likely adversely affect our ability to obtain financing in the future due to the decreased liquidity of the our shares and other restrictions that certain investors have for investing in OTCQB traded securities. While we intend to seek listing on the Nasdaq Stock Market (“Nasdaq”) or another stock exchange when the Company is eligible, there can be no assurance when or if our common stock will be listed on Nasdaq or another stock exchange. The market price of our stock is subject to volatility. Because our stock is thinly traded, its price can change dramatically over short periods, even in a single day. An investment in our stock is subject to such volatility and, consequently, is subject to significant risk. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate widely in response to many factors, including: • developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; • announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; - 21 - • announcements of new products or new contracts by us or our competitors; • actual or anticipated variations in our operating results due to the level of development expenses and other factors; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts and whether any future earnings of ours meet or exceed such estimates; • conditions and trends in our industry; • new accounting standards; • general economic, political and market conditions and other factors; and • the occurrence of any of the risks described in this Report. You may have difficulty selling our shares because they are deemed “penny stocks”. Because our common stock is not quoted on the Nasdaq National Market or Nasdaq Capital Market or listed on a national securities exchange, if the trading price of our common stock remains below $5.00 per share, which we expect for the foreseeable future, trading in our common stock will be subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a penny stock (generally, any non-Nasdaq equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions). Such rules require the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith and impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally defined as an investor with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 individually or $300,000 together with a spouse). For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to the broker-dealer, current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market-maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer’s presumed control over the market. Such information must be provided to the customer orally or in writing before or with the written confirmation of trade sent to the customer. Monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the common stock and the ability of holders of the common stock to sell their shares. - 22 - ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 