Risk Factors Statements in this Report about the outlook for our business and markets, such as projections of future performance, statements of management's plans and objectives, and forecasts of market trends and other matters, are forward- looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company's actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause such a difference, and may impact our future financial performance, include, but are not limited to, those discussed below: Risks Related to Our Business Our period to period sales and operating results have fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate significantly, which has caused, and may continue to cause, volatility in the market price for our common stock. SBS has experienced fluctuations in its period to period sales and operating results in the past, and management expects that fluctuations will occur in the future. Our sales, on both an annual and a quarterly basis, can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control and which we may not be able to predict. These factors include: the timing and volume of customer orders and delays; success in achieving design wins in which our products are designed into those of our customers; manufacturing delays; delays in shipment due to component shortages; cancellations of orders; changes in the mix of products sold; the rate of introduction of new products; ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels; excess or obsolete inventory and changes in valuation of inventory; cyclicality or downturns in the markets served by our customers, including defense, communications and capital equipment expenditures; political, legal, regulatory and economic conditions and developments in the areas of the world in which we operate or into which we might expand our operations; competition from new technologies and other companies; variations in sales channels, product costs and the mix of products sold; and economic disruptions due to terrorist activity or natural disasters. Because fluctuations in operating results have happened in the past, and may continue to happen in the future, we believe that comparisons of the results of our operations for preceding quarters and fiscal years are not necessarily meaningful, and that Table of Contents Link investors should not rely on the results for any one quarter or year as an indication of how SBS will perform in the future. Investors should also understand that, if our sales or earnings for any quarter or year are less than the level expected by securities analysts or the market in general, the market price for SBS' common stock has been in the past, and may be in the future, subject to an immediate and significant decline. Our future sales may be limited if anticipated increases in U.S. defense spending do not occur or if defense spending in the U.S. and other countries is reduced or not allocated in a way that benefits us. We derive a significant portion of our sales directly or indirectly from the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD). The majority of our government sales are to contractors in U.S. Government military programs for either new military systems or upgrades of existing military platforms. These sales may be affected by changes in procurement policies, budget considerations, changing defense requirements, including those arising from terrorist-related activities, and political developments. The influence of these factors, which are largely beyond our control, could impact our financial position or results of operations. The funding of U.S. Government military programs is subject to congressional appropriations. Although multiple year contracts may be planned in connection with major procurements or upgrades, Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. Consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. The termination of funding for a Government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenues attributable to that program. That could have a negative impact on our operations. In addition, the termination of a program or failure to commit funds to a prospective program or a program already started could increase our overall costs of doing business. The President's budget for the DoD for fiscal year 2006 and beyond responds to increased needs for homeland security and combating terrorism. This is evidenced by budget increases for operation readiness and personnel needs, as well as for both procurement and research and development. This trend was reiterated in the Future Year Defense Plan (FYDP) submitted with the President's budget for fiscal year 2005. It projects sustained growth in both the procurement and research and development budgets for the DoD through fiscal year 2006, and in the case of the procurement budgetary authority, through fiscal year 2009. While there is no assurance that the increased DoD budget levels will be approved by Congress, the current U.S. defense budget outlook appears to be one of modest growth. However, the level and sustainability of growth and the amount of the budget that will ultimately be allocated to programs most closely aligned with our business, such as new military systems and upgrades of existing military platforms, is unknown, particularly in light of: current record U.S. government budget deficits, and increased expenditures on operations and maintenance arising from conflicts in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other locations, which typically do not benefit our business. In addition, non-U.S. defense budgets are constrained and in some cases have been declining in recent years. This has resulted in consolidation in the European aerospace industry. This type of environment could reduce opportunities, and increase competition and pricing pressure, for sales of SBS products into non-U.S. government markets. A significant portion of our sales is to a small number of customers. Our sales could be harmed if our relationship with those customers deteriorates, or if the end products marketed by those customers are not successful in the marketplace. In recent years, a significant and growing proportion of our sales have been to a small number of customers. In fiscal year 2005, two customers, Ericsson and Applied Materials, represented 16% and 9%, respectively of our total sales. For fiscal year 2006, we expect sales to Applied Materials to decline and sales to Ericsson to continue at approximately the same dollar sales level, each as compared to fiscal year 2005. Many of the significant opportunities we have targeted for growth are for high-volume opportunities from a select number of customers. These opportunities, if successful, may further concentrate our sales into a small number of large customers. If our relationship with any of those customers deteriorates due to technical, operational, or other reasons, or the customers determine that sourcing products from SBS is not in their economic best interest, our sales and earnings could be reduced. Further, if any of those customers' end products are unsuccessful in the marketplace, or in the case of military programs, if the particular program is terminated or significantly curtailed, our sales and earnings will be reduced. We often incur substantial expense and development time well in advance of sales, requiring accurate gauging of future market demand, industry standards and technologies. Our business depends upon continually introducing new and enhanced products and solutions for business needs. Most of our products are developed to meet industry standards that define the basis of compatibility in operation and communication of a system supported by different vendors. Those standards constantly change, and new competing standards emerge. The development or adaptation of products and technologies requires us to commit financial resources, personnel and time significantly in advance of sales. In order to compete, our decisions with respect to those Table of Contents Link commitments must accurately anticipate, sometimes two years or more in advance, both future demand and the technologies that will win market acceptance to meet that demand. Our customers typically require several months to test and evaluate our products before designing their products to incorporate our components. Once our customers have decided to use our components, it may take up to 18 months or longer to begin volume production of products incorporating these components. Because of this lengthy sales cycle, we may experience delays from the time we increase our operating expenses and our investments in inventory until the time that we generate sales from these components. We may never generate sales from components after incurring development expenses if our customers decide not to purchase them. We have invested heavily in the communications market in introducing and marketing new AdvancedMC products intended for use with the AdvancedTCA and MicroTCA™ standards. Although we project wide usage of those two new standards in the future in telecommunication systems, neither standard has yet been implemented in the telecommunications marketplace, and the MicroTCA standard is not yet even finalized. Our investment will not benefit us if the AdvancedTCA and MicroTCA standards are not widely accepted in the foreseeable future. Our investment in InfiniBand technology products is another example of an investment in an emerging technology that may not result in the rate of acceptance we anticipate. Our sales could significantly decrease, and our products could become obsolete, if we fail to adapt timely to changing industry standards, advances in technology, or customer preferences. We face political, economic and regulatory risks associated with our international sales and operations not faced by businesses operating only in the United States. We sell our products in countries throughout the world from our United States, Canadian and German based operations. We intend to continue to expand our operations and sales outside the United States. Consistent with that policy, we opened our sales support and customer support office in Shenzhen, China in June 2004. Our international operations and sales subject the Company to risks not experienced by companies operating only in the United States, including: changes in regulatory requirements, export and import controls, domestic and foreign government policies, including requirements to expend a portion of government program funds locally, the uncertainty of the ability of foreign customers to finance purchases, compliance with a variety of foreign laws, as well as the U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad, political, economic and other uncertainties, including, risk of war, revolution, terrorist attacks, epidemics, expropriation, renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, standards and tariffs, and taxation policies, international monetary fluctuations that may make payment more expensive for foreign customers who may, as a result, limit or reduce purchases, exposure to different and inconsistent legal standards, particularly with respect to intellectual property, longer accounts receivable collection cycles, trade disputes or new trading policies that could limit, reduce, disrupt or eliminate our sales and business prospects outside the United States, and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements that impose multiple conflicting tax laws and regulations. Those risks could reduce our sales and earnings in the future. We may not be successful in obtaining necessary export licenses to conduct business abroad. Licenses for the export of many of our products are required from government agencies in accordance with various statutory authorities. We can give no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining these necessary licenses in order to conduct business abroad. We face significant competition. The embedded computer industry is highly competitive and fragmented, and has been consolidating in recent years. Our competitors differ depending on product and market type, company size, geographic market and application type. We face competition in each of our product lines. Competition in all of our product lines is based on: performance, time-to-market, customer support, product longevity, existing customer relationships, supplier stability, Table of Contents Link price, breadth of product offerings, and reliability. Many of our existing and potential competitors are companies larger than we are that have a number of significant advantages over us, including: significantly greater financial, technological and marketing resources, giving them the ability to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies and customer requirements, established relationships with customers or potential customers, which can make it harder for us to sell our products to those customers, and more extensive name recognition and marketing capability. In addition, existing or potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships with each other or with third parties, or adopt aggressive pricing policies to gain market share. Because of increased competition, we might encounter significant pricing pressures across our product lines. These pricing pressures could result in significantly lower average selling prices and reduced profit margins for our products. We may not be able to offset the effects of any price reductions with an increase in sales, cost reductions or otherwise. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to compete effectively in our current or future markets. The success of our government business is dependent on compliance with increasingly complex legal requirements. We could be suspended or debarred for noncompliance. Complex legal requirements, although customary in government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. These costs might increase in the future, reducing our margins, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition. Failure to comply with these requirements could lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from Government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. Among the causes for debarment are violations of various statutes, including those related to: procurement integrity export control government security employment practices accuracy of records foreign corruption Debarment would have a substantive negative impact on our operations and could have negative effect on our reputation and ability to procure other U.S. Government subcontracts in the future. If the prime contractor on a program for which we were a subcontractor were debarred, the U. S. Government could terminate the prime contract, irrespective of the quality of our products and services as a subcontractor, thereby reducing our revenues. We must persuade customers to outsource their component needs to grow our business. Many of our potential customers design and manufacture embedded computer components internally, which they may view as a cost-savings over purchasing these components from suppliers like SBS. To increase our sales, we need to persuade them that use of our components and services is cost- effective. Increased market acceptance of our products also depends on a number of other factors, including: the quality of our design and production expertise, the increasing use and complexity of embedded computer systems in new and traditional products, the expansion of markets that are served by embedded computers, time to market requirements of our products, the assessment by our customers of direct and indirect cost savings, and our customers' willingness to rely on us for mission-critical applications. Any failure to persuade customers to outsource their embedded computer needs could reduce our future revenues and earnings. If we do not persuade OEMs to use our products in new or next-generation applications, our sales could be harmed. Our sales depend, in part, on our ability to obtain and maintain design wins for our products from OEMs. OEMs that do not currently Table of Contents Link integrate our components into their products may not be willing to purchase components from us because the cost of integrating new components into their products may be more expensive than continuing to use existing components. OEMs currently using our components often re-bid for next- generation components and may elect to use another supplier's components if the other supplier's designs are superior to or less expensive than our designs. Also, OEMs currently integrating our components may redesign their products in a manner that no longer requires our components. If we fail to maintain existing design wins or to achieve new design wins, our sales could be reduced. We purchase many of our components from third party suppliers who may discontinue or change their products or have insufficient supply. Many of our products contain state-of-the-art electronic components, such as microprocessors and memory technology. We depend upon third parties for our supply of many of these components. We obtain some of these components from a sole supplier or a limited number of suppliers, for which alternate sources may be difficult to locate. We have experienced, and may experience in the future, component part shortages, and we have in the past built, and may in the future build, inventory of these components. Moreover, suppliers may discontinue or upgrade some of the products incorporated into our products, which could require us to redesign a product to incorporate newer or alternative technology. Our inventory of component parts may become obsolete, which has in the past and may in the future result in write-downs. Although we believe that we have arranged for an adequate supply of components to meet our short-term requirements, we do not routinely obtain long-term binding contracts with our suppliers to assure future availability. If sufficient components are not available when we need them, our product shipments could be delayed, which could adversely affect our sales during certain periods as well as lead to customer dissatisfaction. If enough components are unavailable, we might have to pay premiums for parts in order to make shipment deadlines. Paying premiums for parts, building inventory of scarce parts, or having our existing inventory become obsolete could lower or eliminate our profit margin, reduce our cash flow, and otherwise harm our financial performance. New environmental requirements applicable to SBS products beginning July 1, 2006 may increase SBS' costs and could result in inventory write- offs. In February 2003, the European Union (EU) issued a directive regarding the Restriction on the use of certain Hazardous Substances in electrical and electronic equipment (RoHS). The RoHS directive requires producers of electrical and electronic equipment to eliminate the use of six environmentally sensitive substances; including lead, in products sold in the EU beginning July 1, 2006. We are pursuing steps toward full compliance of the impending RoHS directive. This directive may increase SBS' design and testing costs during the transition to the new requirements. In addition, implementation of the new directive could render certain non-compliant products obsolete. If we are unable to accurately forecast demand for non-compliant products during the transition period, we could hold substantial inventory that would become obsolete which could lower or eliminate our profit margin, reduce our cash flow, and otherwise harm our financial performance. If we are unable to obtain RoHS-compliant component parts, our ability to build and deliver RoHS- compliant products to our customers in a timely manner could be affected, which could reduce our sales and cash flow. We use a limited number of contract manufacturers to produce the bulk of our board-level products and are dependent on their timeliness, quality, and availability. We obtain parts from large electronics parts suppliers and printed circuit boards from printed circuit board manufacturers and provide these parts and boards as kits to contract manufacturing companies that fabricate our products. Many of the contract manufacturers we utilize are small companies with limited capital resources. In recent years we have consolidated contract manufacturers in the United States to obtain various benefits relating to price, quality, timeliness, service and efficiency. For example, during fiscal year 2005, we subcontracted approximately 80% of our U.S.-built board- level assemblies to Micro Dynamics Corporation, Montevideo, Minnesota. In addition, our German operation uses a single contract manufacturer for substantially all of its outsourced manufacturing. This concentration of manufacturing increases our vulnerability to any manufacturing or quality disruptions occurring at the contract manufacturer, which in turn could reduce our ability to make on-time shipments to our customers, reduce customer satisfaction, and increase our warranty costs. There is no assurance that we will not experience delays in obtaining product from contract manufacturers. If we must move our production to new contract manufacturers due to non-performance by current contract manufacturers, additional delays in obtaining product could be incurred, as qualifying new contract manufacturers is costly and time- consuming. If we are unable to meet our customers' delivery requirements due to delays in obtaining product from contract manufacturers, our sales and results of operations could be materially reduced. We also use contract manufacturers for a limited number of products with operations in low-cost locations, such as Asia. Those products may be subject to shipping and other delays resulting from the location of those fabrication facilities. These manufacturers are also subject to political, economic and regulatory risk similar to those arising from our international sales and operations generally, as described on page 11. We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties that could harm our operating results. We typically sell our products pursuant to purchase orders that customers can cancel or defer delivery on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. Cancellations or deferrals could cause us to hold excess inventory that may not be salable to other customers on commercially reasonable terms, and which could reduce our profit margins, require inventory write downs, and restrict our ability to fund our Table of Contents Link operations. This risk is exacerbated by a current trend from our customers of requiring shorter lead times between placing an order with us and the shipment date. That typically necessitates an increase in our inventory of that product, raising the likelihood that upon cancellation or deferral, we may be holding greater amounts of inventory. We have limited patent protection covering our technology, and we may not be able to protect our intellectual property. Disputes could be expensive. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop and protect our intellectual property. We have sought only limited patent protection for our technology. We currently have six U.S. patents and two Canadian patents issued and no U.S. patents pending. We cannot guarantee that our existing patents will be enforced in a court of law if challenged. Patent applications in the United States are not publicly disclosed until the patents are issued. We primarily rely on trade secret laws, industrial know-how and confidentiality agreements with employees, customers, distributors and vendors to protect our intellectual property and believe that future financial performance is much more dependent on the timely introduction of new products and technology and our customer relationships than protection of our intellectual property. Third parties or employees may breach those confidentiality agreements or otherwise attempt to disclose, obtain or use our products and technologies. We enter into contracts with OEMs which typically provide for broad indemnification of the OEMs against allegations of infringements of intellectual property rights arising from our products, including costs of defense. We do not carry insurance covering any such claims. Any such claim or claims could materially harm our financial condition. We may have to litigate to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights. Any litigation, regardless of outcome, may be costly and time consuming. Further, if it were ultimately determined that our claimed intellectual property rights are unenforceable, or that our products infringe on the rights of others, we may be required to pay past royalties or obtain licenses to use technologies. We may not be able to obtain licenses for these technologies on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition Our success depends, in part, on our ability to identify, acquire and successfully integrate new businesses. A major element of our business strategy is to pursue acquisitions that either expand or complement our business. We have increased the scope of our operations through eleven acquisitions since 1992. Where business conditions permit, we intend to actively pursue acquisition opportunities whenever they arise. This acquisition strategy may pose additional risks to us, including: We might not be able to identify or acquire acceptable acquisition candidates on favorable terms, and in a timely manner. Many of the recent consolidation transactions in our industry have been at prices that exceed what we believe are prudent. If we are unable to find acceptable acquisition candidates, we may hold, as we currently do now, substantial amounts of cash that provide a low rate of return in the current interest rate environment. Our management, financial controls, internal controls over financial reporting, personnel, and other corporate support systems might not be adequate to manage the increase in the size and the diversity of scope of our operations as a result of acquisitions and to effectively integrate acquired businesses. Our acquisitions might not increase revenue or earnings, and the companies acquired might not continue to perform at their historical or anticipated levels. We may use cash for acquisitions that would otherwise be available to fund our operations or to use for other corporate purposes. Our shareholders may experience dilution if we use the Company's capital stock to pay for acquisitions. We may incur debt to pay for acquisitions, resulting in interest costs and reduced earnings. We may need to raise additional capital to fund our operations and to complete acquisitions. We depend on cash flow from operations to fund our operations and pay for our acquisitions. If we experience decreased sales, increased expenses, or a combination of the two, we may need to raise additional capital to fund our operations or acquire other businesses. If we decide to do so, we could attempt to issue debt securities or capital stock. We may not be able to sell these securities under then current market conditions. Even if we were successful in finding buyers for our securities, the buyers could demand commercially unreasonable terms. For example, if we had to sell debt securities, we might be forced to pay high interest rates or agree to onerous operating covenants, which could in turn harm our ability to operate our business by reducing our cash flow and restricting our operating activities. If we were to sell the Company's capital stock, we might be forced to sell shares at a depressed market price, which could result in dilution to our existing shareholders. In addition, any shares of capital stock we may issue may have rights, privileges, and preferences superior to those of our common shareholders. If we are unable to raise additional capital on Table of Contents Link commercially reasonable terms, we may be required to reduce our operations and delay or terminate any potential acquisition plans, which would harm our ability to grow. If our sales do not increase, or if they decline, we could experience difficulty in obtaining debt or equity financing. Contraction and declines in the markets we serve have had and may in the future have an adverse impact on our sales and income. We currently have a $20 million bank line of credit facility from Wells Fargo Bank National Association. We may require external financing in the future, and that financing may not be available on terms acceptable to management or at all. In the future, if our sales do not increase, or if they decline, it would likely impede our ability to raise funds through the sale of debt or equity securities. Our future results are subject to the efficiency of our past and future consolidation efforts. We have consolidated operations in the past, including SBS Communications operating facilities previously based in Carlsbad, California. This consolidation included moving manufacturing, testing and support functions to the St. Paul, Minnesota, facility, and moving certain product design functions to the Mansfield, Massachusetts and Raleigh, North Carolina facilities in fiscal years 2003 and 2004. We may elect to consolidate other operations in the future. Failure to effect a consolidation efficiently could result in missed customer deliveries, higher costs, reductions in quality, and lost productivity on other important projects, any of which could adversely affect our future results of operations. Our earnings have been, and could in the future be, adversely affected because of charges resulting from acquisitions, or an acquisition could reduce shareholder value. As part of our strategy for growth, we acquire compatible businesses. In accounting for a newly acquired business, we are, in many cases, required to amortize, over a period of years, certain identifiable intangible assets. Although the acquired business' current operating profit may offset the amortization expense, a decrease in the acquired business' operating profit could reduce our overall net income and earnings per share. Changes in future markets or technologies may require us to amortize intangible assets faster and in such a way that our overall financial condition or results of operations are harmed. If economic and/or business conditions decline in the future, we may incur impairment charges against earnings which could be significant. We may also be required, under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, to charge against earnings upon consummation of an acquisition the value of an acquired business' technology that does not meet the accounting definition of "completed technology." Acquired businesses could also reduce shareholder value if they generate a net loss or require invested capital. We may expend resources without receiving benefit from strategic alliances with third parties. From time to time, we enter into strategic alliances to deliver solutions to our customers. These alliances are typically formed to provide products or services that we do not provide in our core businesses. We may expend capital and resources on these alliances but may not receive any immediate or long-term return or economic benefit from them, thereby reducing our earnings. We depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could seriously harm our business. Due to the specialized nature of our business, our future performance is highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales and management personnel for our operations. Competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Our failure to compete for these personnel could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if incentive programs we offer are not considered desirable by current and prospective employees, we could have difficulty retaining or recruiting qualified personnel. If we are unable to recruit and retain key employees, our product development, and marketing and sales could be harmed. We are subject to product liability risk. Our products and services could subject us to product liability or government or commercial warranty claims. We maintain primary product liability insurance for our non- aviation products with a general aggregate limit of $1.0/$2.0 million per occurrence and a $50.0 million excess umbrella policy. We maintain, for our aviation products, a $100.0 million liability insurance policy, per occurrence. Our products are widely used in a variety of applications. If a claim is made against us, our insurance coverage might not be adequate to pay for our defense or to pay for any award, in which case we would have to pay for it. Also, in the future we might not be able to continue our insurance coverage at desired levels for premiums acceptable to us. If a litigant were successful against us, a lack or insufficiency of insurance coverage could significantly harm our financial condition. Exchange rate fluctuations could reduce our earnings when stated in U.S. Dollars. Substantially all of our U.S. export sales transactions to date have been denominated in United States dollars and substantially all sales transactions of our Germany operation have been denominated in Euros. Due to the growth in sales in Europe experienced by our Germany operation, a growing percentage of our overall sales transactions have been denominated in Euros. Some sales in the future may be Table of Contents Link denominated in other currencies, including the Canadian dollar. Any decline in the value of other currencies in which we make sales against the United States dollar, the Canadian dollar or the Euro, or any decline in the value of the Canadian dollar or the Euro against the United States dollar, will have the effect of decreasing our consolidated earnings when stated in United States dollars. In the future we may engage in hedging transactions to minimize the effect of the risks associated with these types of currency fluctuations; however, those hedging transactions could adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. Our disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting do not guarantee the absence of error or fraud. Disclosure Controls are procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed under the Exchange Act, such as this Annual Report, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and forms. Disclosure Controls are also designed to ensure that the information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including the CEO and CFO, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Internal control over financial reporting (Internal Controls) are procedures which are designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and includes those policies and procedures that: (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of SBS; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of SBS are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of SBS; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of SBS' assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. To the extent that components of our Internal Controls are included in our Disclosure Controls, they are included in the scope of our quarterly controls evaluation. Our management, including the CEO and CFO, do not expect that our Disclosure Controls or Internal Controls will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Risks Related to Our Securities Our common stock price can be volatile because of several factors, including a limited public float, which could impact our ability to raise capital. During the twelve-month period ended June 30, 2005, the sales price of our common stock fluctuated between $8.55 and $16.50 per share. We believe that the Company's common stock is subject to wide price fluctuations because of several factors, including: quarterly and annual fluctuations in our operating results, a relatively thin trading market for our common stock, which causes trades of small blocks of stock to have a significant impact on the Company's stock price, announcements of new technologies by us, our competitors or customers, general conditions in the markets we serve, fluctuations in earnings of our competitors, changes in earnings estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts, general volatility of the stock markets and the market prices of other publicly traded companies, economic disruptions due to terrorist activity or natural disasters, investor sentiment regarding equity markets generally, including public perception of corporate ethics and governance and the accuracy and transparency of financial reporting, and investor sentiment regarding the valuation of technology companies generally. Table of Contents Link A lower stock value for SBS could make it more difficult to raise, or preclude us from raising, capital through sales of stock or other securities. 