ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following sets forth risk factors known to us that may materially affect the Company and results of operations. The Company’s recently announced Merger with Model poses a number of risks to the Company and its shareholders As discussed further in the Company’s public filings with the SEC, the Merger with Model, including the possibility that it may not be completed, poses a number of risks, including the following: • The Merger may be completed even though material adverse changes may result from economic or industry changes or other causes that could reduce the value of the Merger to our shareholders. • Even if the Merger is completed, the costs to do so may be higher than projected for any number of reasons, reducing the anticipated benefit to our shareholders. If the combined company does not realize the anticipated benefits from the Merger, the market price of our common stock may decline, and our shareholders may not realize a benefit despite the ownership dilution they will experience in connection with the Merger. We could face liquidity and working capital constraints if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to service our obligations, we could face liquidity and working capital constraints, which could adversely impact our future operations and growth. Failure to extend the term of our credit facility or to obtain alternative financing could result in our inability to borrow funds Our credit facility expired on May 12, 2008. In May 2008, we obtained a ninety day extension of the facility to August 11, 2008. Also, on May 23, 2008, we received an option agreement whereby for consideration of certain fees the lender would extend the term of such facility through May 2009, which the Company elected not to execute. The Merger with Model is subject to a number of terms, one of which includes the requirement that the Company and Model obtain a commitment for asset-based loans and term debt facilities in amounts and on terms that are substantially similar to those contemplated by a previous commitment that was obtained in August 2007. That commitment provided for replacement senior credit facilities for us and Model in an aggregate amount of up to $280 million, to be established upon the closing of the Merger, however it expired by its terms in November 2007. A comparable commitment on substantially similar terms and amounts was obtained from the same lender on May 16, 2008. Failure of the Merger to close prior to the expiration of our current credit facility on August 11, 2008 will result in us having to seek an additional extension to the term of our credit facility, or to obtain an alternative source of financing, the success of which no assurance can be given. Although no assurance can be given, management believes that should the merger not be consummated prior to the expiration of the current loan facility scheduled to expire on August 11, 2008, alternative sources of financing would be obtained. Failure to comply with covenants in our credit facility could result in our inability to borrow additional funds Our credit facility requires us to maintain compliance with various financial covenants. Our ability to meet those covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and therefore we may be unable to meet those covenants. If our actual results deviate significantly from our projections, we may not be in compliance with the covenants and might not be allowed to borrow under the credit facility or may be required to accelerate repayment. If we were not able to borrow under our credit facility, we would be required to develop an alternative source of liquidity, or to sell additional securities which would result in dilution to existing shareholders. Without a source of financing, we could experience cash flow difficulties and be forced to curtail our then current operations. In May 2008, the fixed charge covenant and the covenant concerning the limitation on capital expenditures were amended with an effective date of February 1, 2008. As a result of these modifications, Perfumania was in compliance with all covenant requirements as of February 2, 2008. Perfumania may have problems raising money needed in the future, which could adversely impact operations Our growth strategy includes selectively opening and operating new Perfumania retail locations and increasing the average retail sales per store. We may need to obtain funding to achieve our growth strategy. Additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. In order to obtain additional liquidity, we might issue additional common stock which could dilute our existing shareholders’ ownership interest or we may be required to issue securities with greater rights than those currently possessed by holders of our common stock. We may also be required to take other actions, which may lessen the value of our common stock, including borrowing money on terms that are not favorable. 8 Table of Contents We are subject to competition Some of Perfumania’s competitors sell fragrances at discount prices and some are part of large national or regional chains that have substantially greater resources and name recognition than Perfumania. Perfumania’s stores compete on the basis of selling price, customer service, merchandise variety and store location. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, technical, operational, and marketing resources. We may not be able to compete successfully against these competitors in developing our products or services. These factors, as well as demographic trends, economic conditions and discount pricing strategies by competitors, could result in increased competition and could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, operating cash flow, and many other aspects of our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is dependent on consumer spending patterns Our business is sensitive to a number of factors that influence the levels of consumer spending, including political and economic conditions such as recessionary environments, the levels of disposable consumer income, consumer debt, interest rates and consumer confidence. Declines in consumer spending on fragrances and beauty products could have an adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. Perfumania needs to successfully manage its growth Perfumania may not be able to sustain growth in revenues. Perfumania’s growth is somewhat dependent upon opening and operating new retail stores on a profitable basis, which in turn is subject to, among other things, securing suitable store sites on satisfactory terms, hiring, training and retaining qualified management and other personnel, having adequate capital resources and successfully integrating new stores into existing operations. Circumstances outside our control could negatively affect these anticipated store openings. It is possible that Perfumania’s new stores might not achieve sales and profitability comparable to existing stores, and it is possible that the opening of new locations might adversely affect sales at existing locations. The failure to expand by successfully opening new stores as planned or the failure of a significant number of these stores to perform as planned, could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. The market for real estate is competitive Our ability to effectively obtain real estate to open new stores depends upon the availability of real estate that meets our criteria, including traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, lease economics, demographics, and other factors, and our ability to negotiate terms that meet our financial targets. In addition, we must be able to effectively renew our existing store leases. Failure to secure real estate locations adequate to meet annual targets, as well as effectively managing the profitability of our existing stores, could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. Perfumania’s business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could lead to fluctuations in our stock price Perfumania has historically experienced and expects to continue experiencing higher sales in the fourth fiscal quarter than in any of the first three fiscal quarters. Purchases of fragrances as gift items increase during the holiday season, which results in significantly higher fourth fiscal quarter retail sales. If our quarterly operating results are below expectations of stock market analysts, our stock price might decline. Sales levels of new and existing stores are affected by a variety of factors, including the retail sales environment, the level of competition, the effect of marketing and promotional programs, acceptance of new product introductions, adverse weather conditions, general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. Our quarterly results may also vary as a result of the timing of new store openings and store closings, net sales contributed by new stores and fluctuations in comparable sales of existing stores. Perfumania may experience shortages of the merchandise it needs because it does not have long-term agreements with suppliers Perfumania’s success depends to a large degree on our ability to provide an extensive assortment of brand name and designer fragrances. Perfumania has no long-term purchase contracts or other contractual assurance of continued supply, pricing or access to new products. If Perfumania is unable to obtain merchandise from one or more key suppliers on a timely basis or acceptable terms, or if there is a material change in Perfumania’s ability to obtain necessary merchandise, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents Perfumania purchases merchandise from related parties, which may cause a conflict of interest Approximately 36%, 35% and 40%, respectively, of Perfumania’s total merchandise purchased in fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005 were from our affiliates, Model and its subsidiaries, and Parlux. There may be a conflict of interest between our interest in purchasing merchandise at the best price and upon favorable terms and those of our principal shareholders and affiliates in obtaining the best price and favorable terms for their respective companies. Perfumania could be subject to litigation because of the merchandising aspect of its business Some of the merchandise Perfumania purchases from suppliers might be manufactured by entities who are not the owners of the trademarks or copyrights for the merchandise. The owner of a particular trademark or copyright may challenge Perfumania to demonstrate that the specific merchandise was produced and sold with the proper authority, and if Perfumania is unable to demonstrate this, it could, among other things, be restricted from reselling the particular merchandise or be subjected to other liabilities. This type of restriction could adversely affect Perfumania’s business and results of operations. Our stock price volatility could result in litigation, substantial cost, and diversion of management’s attention The price of our common stock has been and likely will continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of events, such as: • quarterly variations in operating results; • completion of the announced Merger with Model; • acquisitions, capital commitments or strategic alliances by us or our competitors; • legal and regulatory matters that are applicable to our business; • the operating and stock price performances of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; • news reports relating to trends in our markets; and • the amount of shares constituting our public float. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the performance of specific companies. The broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Our stock price volatility could result in litigation, including class action lawsuits, which would require substantial monetary cost to defend, as well as the diversion of management attention from day-to-day activities which could negatively affect operating performance. Such litigation could also have a negative impact on the price of our common stock due to the uncertainty and negative publicity associated with litigation. We are not in compliance with Nasdaq Listing Rules Our common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Stock Market. As disclosed in our recent SEC filing, we have received written notice from the Nasdaq Stock Market that we are not in compliance with Nasdaq listing rules as a result of our not filing this Annual Report on Form 10-K on a timely basis. As a consequence, our securities may be subject to delisting. We have submitted a hearing request before a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel with respect to the continued listing of our securities which automatically stays the suspension of trading and delisting of our securities pending the issuance of the Panel’s decision. We believe that the filing of this Form 10-K brings us into compliance with Nasdaq listing rules. Future growth may place strains on our managerial, operational and financial resources If we grow as expected, a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources may occur. Future growth or increase in the number of our strategic relationships could strain our managerial, operational and financial resources, inhibiting our ability to achieve the execution necessary to successfully implement our business plan. The loss of or disruption in our distribution facility could have a material adverse effect on our sales We currently have one distribution facility, which is located in Sunrise, Florida. The loss of, or damage to this facility, as well as the inventory stored therein, would require us to find replacement facilities and assets. In addition, weather conditions, such as natural disasters, including hurricanes, could disrupt our distribution operations. If we cannot replace our distribution capacity and inventory in a timely, cost-efficient manner, it could reduce the inventory we have available for sale, adversely affecting our profitability and operating cash flows. 10 Table of Contents Expanding our business through acquisitions and investments in other businesses and technologies presents special risks We may expand through the acquisition of and investment in other businesses. Acquisitions involve a number of special problems, including: • difficulty integrating acquired technologies, operations, and personnel with our existing business; • diversion of management’s attention in connection with both negotiating the acquisitions and integrating the assets; • the need for additional financing; • strain on managerial and operational resources as management tries to oversee larger operations; and • exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies. We may not be able to successfully address these problems. Moreover, our future operating results will depend to a significant degree on our ability to successfully manage growth or integrate acquisitions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 