Risk Factors • We have a history of operating losses. Orbital experienced operating losses over a number of years prior to the 2006 fiscal year and again in the 2009 fiscal year, as a result of which the Company’s net assets were significantly reduced. The Company has positive shareholders’ equity and we believe that the company is operating on a going concern basis. However, if we were to incur future losses, we may not be able to continue our operations. - 5 - Table of Contents • Our customers may reduce their out-sourced consulting services expenditure. A major source of Orbital’s revenue is the provision of consulting services to customers in the automotive, motorcycle and marine and recreation sectors. Customers utilise Orbital’s services as they either do not have the necessary skills in-house or their internal resources are overloaded. The sourcing of overload work is very dependent on the state of the market. In the event of a market downturn, this source of work would diminish. Reduction by Orbital’s customers of their expenditure on out-sourced consulting services may substantially lessen the revenue received by Orbital. • The future fees we receive under agreements with Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEMs”) may be substantially less than the fees received in recent years. Agreements are entered into with vehicle, engine and component manufacturers and financing parties that grant rights to manufacture, use and sell products that utilise Orbital Combustion Process (“FlexDi TM”) Technology. In the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011, royalty and licence fees revenue generated from the seventeen current licensed users of FlexDi TM technology and their affiliates accounted for approximately 7% of Orbital’s consolidated operating revenues. During the last two fiscal years, royalty and licence fees income from licensed users accounted for approximately 7% of Orbital’s consolidated operating revenues. Orbital has already received and brought to account through revenue a majority of the total lump sum fees due under its existing licence agreements. The amount of additional lump sum fees earned under these agreements will depend on several factors, including the commercialisation of products incorporating FlexDi TM Technology, whether the licensees expand the territories or volumes covered by the agreements and whether additional consulting or engine development services are provided. As a result, the remaining fees received by Orbital under existing agreements may be substantially less than the fees received in prior years. • The failure to obtain new customers or receive royalties from existing or new customers could have a material adverse effect on us. The agreements with OEMs usually entitle Orbital to receive ongoing royalties when licensees sell engines incorporating FlexDi TM Technology. The total royalties paid to Orbital depend on whether manufacturers succeed in selling these engines to consumers. As at September 30, 2011, seven of Orbital’s seventeen licensed users are in commercial production and selling products using FlexDi TM Technology. For the year ended June 30, 2011, Orbital has not received any royalty payments under any of its other agreements. Orbital may not be able to enter into additional agreements with new customers. In addition, current licensees may choose not to commercially produce engines incorporating FlexDi TM Technology, and those who do may not succeed in selling these products to consumers. The failure to obtain new customers or receive royalties from existing or new customers could have a material adverse effect on Orbital’s business and results of operations. • We rely on a small number of key customers. Orbital relies on a small number of key customers for the majority of its revenues. Three customers (Ford Australia and the top two engineering customers) accounted for 41% of total revenue in fiscal 2011. The loss of Ford Australia could have a material adverse effect on Orbital’s business and results of operations. Three customers (Ford Australia and the top two engineering customers) accounted for 43% of total revenue in fiscal 2010. Synerject, which makes a significant contribution to Orbital’s overall result, is also reliant on a small number of key customers for the majority of its revenues. In fiscal 2011, two customers (BRP and Mercury Marine) accounted for 54% (2010: two customers (BRP and Kymco) accounted for 57%) of Synerject’s total revenue. - 6 - Table of Contents • We may not be able to successfully complete the production testing programs for the application of FlexDi Technology to customer engines. Orbital and its licensees engage in production testing programs, which typically last two to four years, for the application of FlexDi Technology to customer engines. These tests must be successfully completed before manufacturers will consider committing the large capital amounts needed to modify existing or build new engine manufacturing plants. Orbital generally receives consulting fees for undertaking these programs. Orbital may not be able to complete these testing programs successfully or without unforeseen problems or delays. As a result there can be no certainty that further products using FlexDi Technology will be introduced into the market or that Orbital will continue to receive consulting fees for performing these production programs. • The market may not accept FlexDi Technology. Many factors will influence whether Orbital’s licensees decide to produce engines commercially using FlexDi Technology. These include the cost of adapting existing facilities or building new manufacturing facilities, the cost of producing each system and the reliability and efficiency of FlexDi Technology. Manufacturers also will evaluate competing technologies and consider how government fuel economy and emissions standards in different countries may favour one technology over another. If manufacturers begin commercial production using FlexDi Technology, the number of engines sold will depend on market acceptance. Many of these factors are beyond Orbital’s control, but will ultimately affect the amount of royalties received. If licensees decide not to use FlexDi Technology commercially or consumers choose not to buy products incorporating FlexDi Technology, there would be a material adverse effect on Orbital’s business and results of operations. • Our sales of LPG Vapouriser Kits may drop. The sale of LPG Vapouriser kits is a significant portion of our revenue (2011: 35%, 2010: 36%). Changes in emissions regulations in Australia that came into effect on July 1, 2010 prohibit the manufacture of new vehicles with vapouriser kits. Sales to the aftermarket will continue past June 30, 2010 as retrofit conversions can still be undertaken on vehicles manufactured before June 30, 2010. Orbital has developed a Liquid LPG fuel system which complies with the Australian emissions regulations noted above. • Our sales of Liquid LPG Fuel Systems may not be to plan. In fiscal 2010, we invested approximately $1.0 million in the development of the next generation Liquid LPG fuel systems. Sales of these kits have not been at a high enough volume and/or high enough margin to recoup these investments and as such $1,065,000 of previously capitalised development expenditure was written off in fiscal 2011. The overall level of conversion of vehicles to LPG in Australia is considerably lower than in recent years and this depressed market may continue resulting in less demand for our Liquid LPG fuel systems. In May 2011 Orbital acquired the business of Sprint Gas Australia (see note 38 to the financial statements). Sprint Gas distributes LPG products to the aftermarket. Sprint Gas will also be affected by the level of LPG conversions in Australia. • We have a large concentration of LPG fuel system sales to a single customer. Our major customer for LPG fuel systems is Ford Australia. Demand for large sedans may drop which will effect the level of our sales to Ford. Ford have recently launched their EcoLPi Ford Falcon vehicle range equipped with Orbital’s Liquid LPG system. Orbital’s sales to Ford will depend on the successful launch and market acceptance of the EcoLPi. • We may not be able to fund the capital and working capital requirements necessary for our business. Orbital requires significant capital amounts to conduct its business. For example, Orbital expects to incur on-going research and development costs and operating costs to enhance the FlexDi Technology and Liquid LPG fuel systems products. In the past, these costs have been paid with a combination of operating revenues, equity injections, debt and other financing. However, there can be no assurance that Orbital will have sufficient operating revenues to fund future costs or that outside financing will be available at affordable prices, or at all. A failure to obtain sufficient financing for ongoing costs could prevent Orbital from carrying out business plans on time and give an advantage to competitors with greater financial resources. If a shortage of financing causes long delays in the further development and commercialisation of FlexDi Technology, licensees could choose not to build engines with FlexDi Technologies or to use competing technologies. This could have a material adverse effect on Orbital’s business and results of operations. - 7 - Table of Contents • We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. Orbital has obtained patents on many aspects of its FlexDi Technology, and has applied for additional patents on other aspects of its technologies. Orbital’s success depends, in part, on its ability to protect its technology and products under applicable intellectual property laws. Orbital is not a party to any present patent or intellectual property litigation, but in the future may be sued by other parties that claim Orbital infringes their patent rights or other rights, or may need to sue other parties to enforce its patent or other intellectual property rights. In the event of being sued by other parties, if proved, these claims could have a material adverse effect upon Orbital. Even if Orbital won any of these suits, the management time and legal expenses required to defend these claims could have an adverse effect on Orbital’s future operating results. Orbital also has trade secrets and know-how, which are not patentable but are still important to Orbital’s business. Orbital seeks to protect these rights through confidentiality agreements and contractual protections. These arrangements may not protect Orbital from unauthorised use or disclosure of its trade secrets and know-how. • Our share price may be volatile. The price of Orbital’s ordinary shares on the Australian Stock Exchange (“ASX”) and the OTC Bulletin Board have experienced historic volatility. In addition, technology stocks traded in both markets have experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations from time to time, even though these changes were sometimes unrelated to the operating performance of specific companies. Announcements of operating results or technical innovations by Orbital or its competitors, including reports or announcements about FlexDi Technology, may have a material effect on the market price of the ordinary shares or the ADSs. On August 25, 2011 Orbital’s ADSs commenced trading on the NYSE Amex under the symbol “OBT”. On September 30, 2011, the closing price of Orbital’s ordinary shares on the ASX was A$0.33. The closing price on June 30, 2011 was A$0.25. The closing price of the ADSs on the NYSE Amex on September 30, 2011 was US$4.35, an increase of approximately 0.5% from the closing price of US$4.33 for the ADSs on the OTC Bulletin Board on June 30, 2011. See Item 9. – “The Offer and Listing – Nature of Trading Market”. • A large product liability or professional indemnity judgement could have a material adverse effect on us. Orbital is subject to business risk from product liability or professional indemnity suits if third parties claim that defects in FlexDi Technology or in consulting services provided by Orbital resulted in personal injury or other losses. Orbital may also be required to indemnify licensees for claims arising from alleged defects in products, which use FlexDi Technology or are designed or manufactured by Orbital. Licensees are, however, required to indemnify us from liabilities caused by defects in products not manufactured by Orbital. Orbital believes that sufficient product liability and indemnity insurance is held for the range of products and services currently provided to licensees and other customers, but sufficient coverage may not be able to be obtained in the future at affordable costs, or at all. Even if Orbital has such insurance, a judgement against us in a large product liability or professional indemnity suit could have a material adverse effect on Orbital’s business or financial condition. • FlexDi Technology may not be able to compete successfully against other engine technologies. Orbital faces significant competition from automobile and engine manufacturers and consulting firms specialising in internal combustion engine technology. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and technological resources than Orbital. Orbital’s commercial success depends in part upon whether FlexDi Technology can compete successfully against both existing and new engine technologies, including new technologies that are similar to FlexDi Technology. To achieve further commercial success, FlexDi Technology will need to displace current four-stroke and two-stroke internal combustion engine technologies, which have a dominant market position. Current four-stroke and two-stroke engine technologies may continue to dominate the engine market, or they may be replaced by new technologies other than FlexDi Technology. Orbital’s competitors may develop products that are technically superior to Orbital’s products or more acceptable to the market. This could reduce Orbital’s market share or make FlexDi Technology less attractive or obsolete, which would have a material adverse effect on Orbital’s business and results of operations. - 8 - Table of Contents • Fluctuations in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on us. Orbital records its transactions and prepares its financial statements in Australian dollars. Most of Orbital’s earnings from licence and supply agreements are in US dollars. Cash and investments are denominated in both Australian and US dollars. Approximately 86% of Orbital’s expenditures are denominated in Australian dollars. When the US dollar appreciates against the Australian dollar, the US dollar earnings would convert into more Australian dollars. However, when the US dollar depreciates against the Australian dollar the US dollar earnings would convert into fewer Australian dollars. Fluctuations in exchange rates between the Australian dollar and the US dollar may also affect the book value of assets and the amount of shareholders’ equity. To reduce its potential currency exposure, Orbital has from time to time entered into forward foreign currency exchange contracts to fix, in Australian dollars, the majority of forecast US dollar royalty and consulting services fee receipts. Details of Orbital’s total foreign currency forward exchange contracts as of June 30, 2011 are contained in Item 5. – “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Foreign currency exchange sensitivity”. As at September 30, 2011, Orbital’s outstanding forward foreign currency exchange contracts totalled US$nil. See also Item 3 – “Key Information – Exchange Rate Information” above. • We may not be able to comply with future governmental regulations. Products using FlexDi Technology must comply with many emissions, fuel economy and other regulations in Australia, the US and other countries. Based on internal testing, Orbital believes that products using FlexDi Technology will be able to meet current emissions and fuel economy standards in the countries that are Orbital’s most important markets. The effects of any future regulations on Orbital’s business or results of operations cannot be predicted. However, if Orbital were unable to comply with any material new regulations in Australia, the US or other key markets, this could delay further commercialisation of FlexDi Technology and have a material adverse effect on Orbital’s business and results of operations. • Classification as a “PFIC” would result in adverse tax treatment to our US shareholders. Under US federal tax laws, a foreign corporation is treated as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) if 50% or more of its assets or 75% or more of its income is passive. Historically, Orbital has not been treated as a PFIC and currently believes that it is not a PFIC. This is, however, a factual determination made annually, which could change, based upon future developments or changes in Orbital’s gross income or the value of its assets. If Orbital were classified as a PFIC in any taxable year, a US holder of ADSs or ordinary shares or ADSs would be subject to special rules. These rules are intended to reduce or eliminate any benefit from the deferral of US income tax that a US holder could derive if the foreign company does not distribute all of its earnings on a current basis. See Item 10. – “Additional Information – United States Federal Income Taxation”. - 9 - Table of Contents 