ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our securities. We have organized our risks into the following categories: •Risks Relating to Our Business; •Risks Relating to Our Liquidity, Financing Arrangements, and Capital Commitments; and •Risks Relating to our Current and Prior Financial Statements and Related Matters. Risks Relating to Our Business Recent changes in our management may cause uncertainty in, or be disruptive to, our general business operations and the implementation of our business strategy. Since April 2006, we have replaced our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and most of our accounting and financial staff as well as several Vice President level positions reporting to the CEO. In addition, most of the members of our Board of Directors have resigned and new Directors have been appointed. These changes in our management and Board of Directors have been and may continue to be disruptive to our business, and, during the transition period, there have been and may continue to be uncertainty among customers, investors, vendors, employees, and others concerning our future direction and performance. Our future success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our management team to work together effectively. The loss of any member of our senior management or other key personnel could harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond to the rapidly changing market conditions in which we operate. Moreover, our success will depend on our ability to attract, hire, and retain senior management and other key personnel and on the abilities of the new management personnel to function effectively, both individually and as a group, going forward. If we are unable to develop and introduce new products successfully or to achieve market acceptance of our new products, our revenues, and operating income will be adversely affected. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new, high-performance ICs for existing and new markets, the cost-effective and timely introduction of such products, and our ability to convince leading communications equipment manufacturers to select these products. Our financial results in the past have been, and are expected in the future to continue to be, dependent on the introduction of a relatively small number of new products and the timely completion and delivery of those products to customers. The development of new ICs is highly complex, and from time-to-time, we have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. Our ability to develop and deliver new products successfully will depend on various factors, including our ability to: •Accurately predict market requirements and evolving industry standards; •Accurately define new products; •Complete and introduce new products in a timely manner; •Qualify and obtain industry interoperability certification of our products and our customers' products into which our products will be incorporated; •Work with our wafer foundry, assembly, and probe and test subcontractors to achieve high manufacturing yields; and •Gain market acceptance of our products and our customers' products. If we are not able to develop and introduce new products successfully, our revenues and operating income will be materially and adversely affected. In particular, our revenue growth and profitability could be impacted by substantial delays in introducing new products. Our success will also depend on 16 the ability of our customers to successfully develop new products and enhance existing products for the Carrier and Enterprise Networking and Storage markets. These markets may not develop in the manner or in the time periods that our customers anticipate. If they do not, or if our customers' products do not gain widespread acceptance in these markets, our revenues and operating income may be materially and adversely affected. Demand for our products may be negatively affected if our expectations regarding market demand for particular products are not accurate. Product introductions as well as future roadmap products are based on our expectations regarding market demand and direction. If our expectations regarding market demand and direction are incorrect, the rate of development or acceptance of our current and next-generation solutions do not meet market demand and customer expectation, the sales of our legacy or current Carrier and Enterprise Networking and Storage products decline more rapidly than we anticipate, or if the rate of decline continues to exceed the rate of growth of our new products, it could negatively affect demand for our products, consolidated revenues, and profitability. We are dependent on a small number of customers in a few industries for a significant amount of net revenues. A decrease in sales to, or the loss of, one or more significant customers could adversely impact our revenues and results of operations. We focus our sales efforts on a small number of customers in the Carrier and Enterprise Networking and Storage markets that require high-performance ICs and intend to continue doing so in the future. Some of these customers are also our competitors. Our top ten customers typically account for 42-47% of our revenue. For fiscal 2006, distributor Nu Horizon Electronics, Corp., including their subsidiary Titan Supply Chain Services, collectively accounted for 55.1% of net revenues. In fiscal 2007, distributor Nu Horizons Electronics, Corp., and their subsidiary Titan Supply Chain Services, and Weikeng Industrial Co. Ltd., accounted for 50.1% and 7.1%, respectively, of our net revenues and IBM accounted for 11% of net revenues. If any of our major customers were to delay orders of our products or stop buying our products, our business and financial condition would be severely affected. Additionally, if any of our customers are impacted by consolidation, experience financial difficulty including filing for bankruptcy protection, or are impacted by adverse economic conditions that would delay networking infrastructure upgrades, build-outs or new installations, this could also result in increased competition for our products and downward pressure on the pricing for our products. Defects, errors, or failures in our products could result in higher costs than we expect and could harm our reputation and adversely affect our revenues and level of customer satisfaction. Due to the highly complex nature of our products, on occasion an undetected defect, error, or failure may occur when one of our products is deployed in the field. The occurrence of defects, errors, or failures in our products could result in cancellation of orders, product returns, and the loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our IC solutions. Our customers could, in turn, bring legal actions against us, resulting in the diversion of our resources, legal expenses and judgments, fines or other penalties, or losses. Any of these occurrences could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We depend on third-party wafer foundries and other suppliers and subcontract manufacturers to manufacture substantially all of our current products and any delays in materials, packaging, or manufacturing capacity or failure to meet quality control requirements could have a material adverse affect on our customer relationships, revenues, and cash flows. Wafer fabrication for our products is outsourced to third-party silicon wafer foundry subcontractors such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation ("TSMC"), Chartered Semiconductor 17 Manufacturing, IBM, LSI Logic and United Microelectronics Corporation. As a result, we depend on third-party wafer foundries to allocate a portion of their manufacturing capacity sufficient to meet our needs and to produce products of acceptable quality in a timely manner. There are significant risks associated with our reliance on third-party foundries, including: •Lack of assured wafer supply, the potential for wafer shortages, and possible increase in wafer prices; •Limited control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, product costs, and product quality; and •Unavailability of, or delays in, obtaining access to key process technologies. These and other risks associated with our reliance on third-party wafer foundries could materially and adversely affect our revenues, cash flows, and relationships with our customers. For example, the third- party foundries that manufacture our wafers have from time-to-time experienced manufacturing defects and reductions in manufacturing yields. In addition, disruptions and shortages in wafer foundry capacity may impair our ability to meet our customers' needs and negatively impact our operating results. Our third-party wafer foundries fabricate products for other companies and, in certain cases, manufacture products of their own design. Historically, there have been periods in which there has been a worldwide shortage of wafer foundry capacity for the production of high-performance integrated circuits such as ours. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our third-party foundries, but instead subcontract our manufacturing requirements on a purchase order basis. As a result, it is possible that the capacity we will need in the future may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition to third-party wafer foundries, we also depend on third-party subcontractors in Asia and the United States for the assembly, and in some cases, wafer probe and package testing of our products. As with our wafer foundries, any difficulty in obtaining parts or services from these subcontractors could affect our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to customers, which, could in turn, have a materially adverse affect on our customer relationships, revenues, and cash flows. These third-party subcontractors purchase materials used in the assembly process based on our forecast. In the event we fail to meet our obligations by placing purchase orders that are inconsistent with our forecast, we may be required to pay compensation for material forecasted, but not ordered. This may have an adverse affect on revenues, operating results, and cash flows. Finally, we are subject to occasional EOL notices on certain material and/or products that may impact our ability to continue to support certain products. This may impact our ability to continue to support certain products, forcing us to EOL our products if we cannot obtain a replacement source of material. This may impact revenue and/or require us to incur additional costs to provide alternative sources for these materials. If we do not achieve satisfactory manufacturing yields or quality, our business will be harmed because of increases in our business expenses. The fabrication of ICs is a highly-complex and technically-demanding process. Defects in designs, problems associated with transitions to newer manufacturing processes, and the inadvertent use of defective or contaminated materials can result in unacceptable manufacturing yields and performance. These problems are frequently difficult to detect in the early stages of the production process and can be time-consuming and expensive to correct once detected. Even though we procure substantially all of our wafers from third-party foundries, we may be responsible for low yields when these wafers are tested against our quality control standards. In the past, we have experienced difficulties in achieving acceptable probe and/or final test yields on some of our products, particularly with new products, which frequently involve new manufacturing 18 processes and smaller geometry features than previous generations. Maintaining high numbers of good die per wafer is critical to our operating results, as decreased yields can result in higher unit costs, shipment delays, and increased expenses associated with resolving yield problems. Because we also use estimated yields to value work-in-process inventory, yields below our estimates can require us to increase the value of inventory that is already reflected on our financial statements, and, possibly, the related reserves. In addition, defects in our existing or new products may require us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, and could divert the attention of our engineering personnel away from the development of new products. As a result, poor manufacturing yields, defects or other performance problems with our products could adversely affect our ability to provide competitively priced products. Our ability to improve gross margins depends upon successful management of our supply chain, including our ability to accurately estimate demand for our products manufactured by third-parties. Our ability to improve gross margins depends upon several factors including our ability to continue to reduce our wafer, assembly, and test costs, our ability to improve manufacturing yields, and our ability to reduce average selling price erosion. As a fabless semiconductor company, we outsource a substantial amount of our manufacturing, including 100% of our wafer and package assembly fabrication. As such, we must manage our supply chain efficiently in order to ensure competitive materials pricing and effective lead-times for the materials that we purchase. The semiconductor industry in which we compete is highly cyclical. Typically, in periods of strong demand in the semiconductor industry, we may experience longer lead-times, difficulties in obtaining capacity, and/or meeting commitments to our required deliveries. In addition, we are subject to occasional supply chain issues such as EOL notices on certain material and/or products that may impact our ability to continue to support certain products that may impact revenue and/or require us to incur additional costs to provide alternative sources. We must attract and retain key employees in a highly competitive environment. Our success depends in part upon our ability to retain key employees. In some of the fields in which we operate, there are only a limited number of people in the job market who possess the requisite skills. We have experienced difficulty in hiring and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified engineers in parts of our business. The loss of services of any key personnel or the inability to hire new personnel with the requisite skills could restrict our ability to develop new products or enhance existing products in a timely matter, to sell products to customers, or to manage our business effectively. On June 28, 2006, the Company's common stock was delisted from the NASDAQ National Market. Since that date, except for certain, very limited circumstances, the Company has not granted stock options to newly hired and current employees. Since our competitors utilize stock option grants as a significant employee benefit, our inability to offer stock options has hindered our efforts to attract and retain key employees. We face significant emerging and existing competition and, therefore, may not be able to maintain our market share or may be negatively impacted by competitive pricing practices. The markets for our products are intensely competitive and subject to rapid technological advancement in design technology, wafer-manufacturing techniques, and alternative networking technologies. We must identify and capture future market opportunities to offset the rapid price erosion that characterizes our industry. We may not be able to develop new products at competitive pricing and performance levels. Even if we are able to do so, we may not complete a new product and introduce it to market in a timely manner. We typically face competition at the design stage, where customers evaluate alternative design approaches that require ICs. Our competitors have increasingly frequent opportunities to supplant our 19 products in next-generation systems because of shortened product life and design cycles in many of our customers' products. Competition is particularly strong in the market for communications ICs, in part, due to the market's historical growth rate, which attracts larger competitors, and in part, to the number of smaller companies focused on this area. Larger competitors in our market have acquired both mature and early stage companies with advanced technologies. These acquisitions could enhance the ability of larger competitors to obtain new business that we might have otherwise won. Our customers may substitute use of our products in their next-generation equipment with those of current or future competitors. In the communications market, which includes our Carrier and Enterprise Network markets, our competitors include Applied Micro Circuits Corporation, Broadcom Corporation, Marvell Technology Group Ltd., Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., Mindspeed Technologies, Inc., and PMC—Sierra, Inc. Over the next few years, we expect additional competitors, some of which may have greater financial and other resources, to enter the market with new products. In addition, we are aware of smaller privately-held companies that focus on specific portions of our range of products. These companies, individually and collectively, represent future competition during the design stage and in subsequent product sales. We must keep pace with rapid technological change and evolving industry standards in order to grow our revenues and our business. We sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid changes in both product and process technologies, including evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles, and increasing demand for higher-levels of integration and smaller process geometries. We believe that our success, to a large extent, depends on our ability to adapt to these changes, to continue to improve our product technologies, and to develop new products and technologies to maintain our competitive position. Our failure to accomplish any of the above could have a negative impact on our business and financial results. If new industry standards emerge, our products or our customers' products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could lose market share. We may also have to incur substantial unanticipated costs to comply with these new standards. Development costs for new product technologies continue to increase. We may incur substantially higher R&D costs for next-generation products, as these products are typically more complex and must be implemented in more advanced wafer fabrication processes and assembly technologies. Our business is subject to environmental regulations that could increase our operating expenses. We are subject to a variety of federal, state, and local environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, and disposal of toxic, volatile, and other hazardous chemicals used in our designing and manufacturing processes. In some circumstances, these regulations may require us to fund remedial action regardless of fault. Consequently, it is often difficult to estimate the future impact of environmental matters, including the potential liabilities associated with chemicals used in our designing and manufacturing processes. If we fail to comply with these regulations, we could be subject to fines or be required to suspend or cease our operations. In addition, these regulations may restrict our ability to expand operations at our present locations in the United States and worldwide or require us to incur significant compliance-related expenses. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, it may harm our ability to compete or maintain market share. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret protections, as well as confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. For example, we enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, and business 20 partners, and control access to and distribution of our proprietary information. As of September 30, 2007 and 2006, we had 87 U.S. patents, 13 foreign patents and 77 U.S. patents, and four foreign patents, respectively, for various aspects of design and process innovations used in the design and manufacture of our products and have a number of pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. However, despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, we cannot assure you that: •Steps we take to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property will be successful; •Any existing or future patents will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented; •Any pending patent applications or future applications will be approved; •Others will not independently develop similar products or processes to ours or design around our patents; or •Any of the measures described above will provide meaningful protection. A failure by us to meaningfully protect our intellectual property could have a materially adverse affect on our business, financial condition, operating results, and ability to compete, including maintaining our competitive position in the market. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain countries. We have begun to find opportunities to license our intellectual property. While this may provide a substantial business opportunity for us, it may also increase the potential for others to misappropriate or infringe upon our intellectual property. We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights or demands that we license third-party technology, which could result in significant expense and loss of our proprietary rights. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. As is common in the industry, from time-to-time, third parties have asserted patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business and have demanded that we license their patents and technology. To date, none of these claims has resulted in the commencement of any litigation against us, nor have we believed that it is necessary to license any of the rights referred to in such claims. We expect, however, that we will continue to receive such claims in the future, and any litigation to determine their validity, regardless of their merit or resolution, could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. We have begun to find opportunities to license our intellectual property. While this may provide a substantial business opportunity for the Company, it may also increase the potential for others to initiate claims against us. We cannot assure that we would prevail in such disputes given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If such litigation were to result in an adverse ruling we could be required to: •Pay substantial damages; •Discontinue the use of infringing technology, including ceasing the manufacture, use, or sale of infringing products; •Expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology; or •License technology from the party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. 21 Risks Relating to Our Liquidity; Financing Arrangements and Capital Commitments We have experienced continuing losses from operations and we anticipate future losses from operations. Following a substantial downturn that started in late 2000, and continued for many years, market conditions for our products began to improve modestly in 2005, and, generally, have continued to improve through 2007. During this time, our revenues have been generally increasing, but tend to be volatile. During these periods, our revenues have not been sufficient to cover our operating expenses, and we anticipate future losses from operations as a result. Due to general economic conditions and slowdowns in purchases of networking equipment, it has become increasingly difficult for us to predict the purchasing activities of our customers and we expect that our operating results will fluctuate substantially in the future. Future fluctuations in operating results may also be caused by a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. Additional factors that could affect our future operating results include the following: •The loss of major customers; •Variations, delays or cancellations of orders and shipments of our products; •Increased competition from current and future competitors; •Reductions in the selling prices of our products; •Significant changes in the type and mix of products being sold; •Delays in introducing new products; •Design changes made by our customers; •Failure by third-party foundries and other subcontractors to manufacture and ship products on time; •Changes in third-party foundries' and other subcontractors' manufacturing capacity, utilization of their capacity and manufacturing yields; •Variations in product development costs; •Changes in our or our customers' inventory levels; •Expenses or operational disruptions resulting from acquisitions; and •Sale or closure of discontinued operations. In order to achieve and sustain profitability, we must achieve a combination of substantial revenue growth and/or a reduction in operating expenses. If we are unable to accurately predict our future sales and to appropriately budget for our expenses, our operating results could suffer. The rapidly changing nature of the markets in which we sell our products limit our ability to accurately forecast quarterly and annual sales. Additionally, because many of our expenses are fixed in the short-term or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any shortfall of sales. The cyclical nature of and volatility in the semiconductor industry. We operate primarily in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards. From time-to-time, the semiconductor industry has experienced significant downturns. These downturns are characterized by decreases in product demand, excess customer inventories, and accelerated erosion of prices. These factors could cause substantial fluctuations in our revenue and in our results of operations. 22 Our operating results may be adversely impacted by worldwide political and economic uncertainties and specific conditions in the markets we address. In the recent past, general worldwide economic conditions have experienced a downturn due to slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits, capital spending, and adverse business conditions. These conditions make it extremely difficult for our customers, our vendors, and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and could cause U.S. and foreign businesses to slow spending on our products, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. We cannot predict the timing, strength, or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery, worldwide, or in the semiconductor industry. If the economy or markets, in which we operate, do not continue at their present levels, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. If required, our ability to repurchase our debentures with cash may be limited and failure to repurchase the debentures could constitute an event of default. On October 1, 2009, the holders of our 1.5% Convertible Subordinated Debentures Due 2024 ("the 2024 Debentures"), have the right to require us to repurchase some or all of the 2024 Debentures at a price equal to 113.76% of the principal amount of the 2024 Debentures to be purchased. Currently, $96.7 million aggregate principal amount of the 2024 Debentures are outstanding. We cannot assure that we will have sufficient financial resources, at such time, or will be able to arrange financing to pay the repurchase price of any 2024 Debentures tendered for repurchase. Our ability to repurchase the 2024 Debentures in such event may be limited by law, by the indenture associated with the 2024 Debentures, by the terms of other agreements relating to our senior debt, and by such indebtedness and agreements as may be entered into, replaced, supplemented, or amended from time-to-time. We may be required to refinance our debt in order to make such payments. We may not have the financial ability to repurchase the 2024 Debentures if payment of our debt is accelerated. If we fail to repurchase the 2024 Debentures as required by the indenture, it would constitute an event of default which, in turn, may also constitute an event of default under our other debt obligations. The short life cycles of some of our products may leave us with obsolete or excess inventories, which could have an adverse impact on our operating profit and net income. The life cycles of some of our products depend heavily upon the life cycles of the end products into which our products are designed. Products with short life cycles require us to manage production and inventory levels closely. We cannot assure you that obsolete or excess inventory, which may result from unanticipated changes in the estimated total demand for our products and/or the estimated life cycles of the end products into which our products are designed, will not result in significant charges that will negatively affect our operating profit and net income. We have limited control over the indirect channels of distribution we utilize, which makes it difficult to accurately forecast orders and could result in the loss of certain sales opportunities. Our revenues could be adversely affected if our relationships with resellers or distributors were to deteriorate or if the financial condition of these resellers or distributors were to decline. In addition, as our business grows, there may be an increased reliance on indirect channels of distribution. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining or expanding these indirect channels of distribution. This could result in the loss of certain sales opportunities. Furthermore, the reliance on indirect channels of distribution may reduce visibility with respect to future business, thereby, making it more difficult to accurately forecast orders. 23 Order or shipment cancellations or deferrals could cause our revenue to decline or fluctuate. We sell, and expect to continue to sell, a significant number of products pursuant to purchase orders that customers may cancel or defer on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. Cancellations or deferrals could cause us to hold excess inventory, which could adversely affect our results of operations. If a customer cancels or defers product shipments or refuses to accept shipped products, we may incur unanticipated reductions or delays in revenue. If a customer does not pay for products in a timely manner, we could incur significant charges against income, which could materially and adversely affect our net income and results of operations. Our international sales and operations subject us to risks that could adversely affect our revenue and operating results. Sales to customers located outside the U.S. have historically accounted for a significant percentage of our revenue and we anticipate that such sales will continue to be a significant percentage of our revenue. International sales constituted 48% and 46% of our net revenue in fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively. Development and customer support operations located outside the U.S. have historically accounted for a significant percentage of our operating expenses and we anticipate that such operations will continue to be a significant percentage of our expenses. International sales and operations involve a variety of risks and uncertainties, including risks related to: •Reliance on strategic alliance partners; •Compliance with changing foreign regulatory requirements and tax laws; •Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; •Reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • Longer payment cycles to collect accounts receivable in some countries; •Political and economic instability; •Economic downturns in international markets; •Currency risks; •Changing restrictions imposed by U.S. export laws; and •Competition from U.S.-based companies that have established significant international operations. Failure to successfully address these risks and uncertainties could adversely affect our international sales, which would, in turn, have a material and adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to our Current and Prior Financial Statements and Related Matters We have material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting and cannot provide assurance that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. If our internal controls over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or our filings may not be timely and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. Following the Company's determination that the Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting as of September 30, 2005, and the Report of KPMG, LLP, the Company's independent registered public accounting firm, relating to the effectiveness of the Company's internal controls over financial reporting and management's assessment, thereof, as of September 30, 2005, both of which reports are included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 24 September 30, 2005, should not be relied upon, and the investigation into our internal controls over financial reporting by the Special Committee, we cannot assure you that our current financial reporting or disclosure controls are effective. Management's evaluation of the design and operating effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting identified material weaknesses resulting from design and operating deficiencies in the internal control system, including that we did not maintain: (i) an effective control environment, which includes controls over the administration of and accounting for stock options and access to our information systems, as well as adequate segregation of duties; or (ii) effective controls over the period-end process, including the review, supervision, and monitoring of the preparation of journal entries and account reconciliations, as well as the accounting for inventory, revenue recognition and payroll. The Company, commencing in mid-2006, in order to rectify these weaknesses began: (i) hiring more experienced and senior finance and legal personnel; (ii) developing additional financial policies and procedures; (iii) establishing processes and procedures to increase communications between the financial reporting, accounting functions and senior management; and (iv) instituting a formal Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and whistle-blower policy. In addition, the Company has implemented, or is currently implementing the following: •Engagement of third-party administrator for share-based compensation; •Enhancement of Corporate Governance and oversight; •Establishment of internal audit function; •Development and implementation of several new policies and procedures to address key weaknesses; and •Development of specific accounting and finance policies and standardized processes in all critical accounting areas. While we are committed to the changes made to our internal controls over financial reporting, and believe we have made progress towards resolving our material weaknesses, until sufficient time has passed as to evaluate the effectiveness of the modifications of our internal controls over financial reporting, we cannot assure you that there will not be errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or delay in filings, and as a result investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. We have not been able to restate or provide our financial statements for periods prior to September 30, 2005, which limits the ability to evaluate our historical financial performance to estimate future performance. In April 2006, we announced that our then published financial statements should no longer be relied upon. As discussed in greater detail on page 38, our Board of Directors appointed a Special Committee consisting of independent Directors to conduct an investigation of possible backdating of stock options. The investigation determined that members of our former senior management backdated and manipulated the grant date of options over a number of years and subsequently attempted to create and alter documents in order to conceal these practices. The investigation also found evidence of a number of improper accounting practices. As a result of these improper accounting practices and evaluation of the financial records and controls in place prior to September 30, 2005, current management concluded that it cannot rely on historical balances or on the testing performed by its former auditors, supporting accounting documents are poor and do not exist for many transactions, and key internal accounting controls were overridden by prior management or did not exist. As a result, current management has been unable to prepare any financial statements for any period prior to 25 September 30, 2005. Thus, there is limited historical financial information on which investors can rely upon while evaluating our financial performance. Since we have been unable to provide audited financial information for the year ended September 30, 2005, or for prior periods, we are not in compliance with our current reporting obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. As discussed above, we have not been able to restate or provide financial statements for any period prior to October 1, 2005. As a result, we currently are unable to comply with the financial statement requirements for an Annual Report on Form 10-K under the Exchange Act. Our failure to comply fully with our reporting requirements under the Exchange Act could result in the SEC deregistering our common stock under the Exchange Act and/or imposing civil penalties on us. Until we are current in our SEC reporting obligations, we will be precluded from registering any offer or sale of our securities with the SEC. In addition, we will not be eligible to use a "short form" registration statement on Form S-3 until we have been current in our periodic reporting obligations for 12 months, which could increase the cost of raising capital through the issuance and sale of equity. Furthermore, requirements under the Exchange Act regarding the information that must be provided to shareholders in connection with an annual meeting of shareholders may preclude us from taking certain actions intended to increase the attractiveness of our common stock and facilitate relisting on a national exchange, as discussed below. The market price for our common stock has been volatile due, in part, to our delisting from the NASDAQ National Market in June 2006 and future volatility could cause the value of investments in our Company to fluctuate. As a result of the delay in filing this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other SEC periodic and annual reports, our common stock has been delisted from the NASDAQ National Market. We currently are quoted under the symbol (VTSS.PK) on the Pink Sheets, an electronic quotation service for securities traded over-the-counter. As a result, there may be significantly less liquidity in the market for our common stock. In addition, our ability to raise additional capital through equity financing, and attract and retain personnel by means of equity compensation, may be impaired. Furthermore, we may experience decreases in institutional and other investor demand, analyst coverage, market-making activity, and information available concerning trading prices and volume, and fewer broker-dealers may be willing to execute trades with respect to our common stock. The delisting has decreased the attractiveness of our common stock and caused the trading volume of our common stock to decline significantly, which has resulted in a significant decline in the market price of our common stock. We intend to seek to be relisted on a securities exchange when we become current in our SEC reporting. There can be no assurance whether we will satisfy the standards for listing on an exchange or that an exchange will approve our listing. Nor can there be any assurance, at this time, when a relisting would occur. Continuing to be quoted only on Pink Sheets could result in continued volatility in the trading price of our common stock and could cause its value to fluctuate. 26 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 