ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in the Company's securities. The Company has organized its risks into the following categories: •Risks Relating to The Company's Business; and •Risks Relating to an Investment in the Company. Risks Relating to The Company's Business The Company has experienced losses from operations and it anticipates future losses from operations. For the year ended September 30, 2010, the Company had a net loss of $20.1 million, primarily due to interest expense and a loss on extinguishment of debt. There can be no assurance that the Company will not have operating losses in future periods. Due to general economic conditions and slowdowns in purchases of networking equipment, it continues to be difficult for the Company to predict the purchasing activities of the Company's customers. The Company expects that its operating results will fluctuate substantially in the future and the Company anticipates future losses from operations. Future fluctuations in operating results may also be caused by a number of factors, many of which are outside the Company's control, including, but not limited to, the following: •the loss of major customers; •timing, scheduling or cancellation of significant customer orders and shipments; •increased competition from current and future competitors; •reductions in the selling prices of the Company's products; •significant changes in the type and mix of products being sold; •delays in introducing new products; •design changes made by the Company's customers; •failure by third-party foundries and other subcontractors to manufacture and ship products on time; •changes in third-party foundries' and other subcontractors' manufacturing capacity, utilization of their capacity and manufacturing yields; •variations in product development costs; •changes in the Company's or the Company's customers' inventory levels; and •sales or closures of discontinued operations. In order to achieve and sustain profitability, the Company must achieve a combination of substantial revenue growth and/or a reduction in operating expenses. If the Company is unable to accurately predict its future sales and to appropriately budget for its expenses, its operating results could be materially and adversely affected. The rapidly changing natures of the markets in which the Company sells its products limit its ability to accurately forecast quarterly and annual sales. The Company's sales cycle is often lengthy, particularly for larger transactions. As a result, the Company devotes substantial time and effort and incurs significant upfront expense in its sales efforts without any assurance that its efforts will result in a customer purchase. Therefore, it often is difficult to predict when, or even if, the Company will make a sale with a potential customer. Additionally, the Company makes investment decisions and budgets its 15 Table of Contents expense levels based primarily on sales forecasts. Because a substantial portion of the Company's expenses are fixed in the short term or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales, the Company may not be able to decrease its expenses in a timely manner to offset any shortfall of sales. The Company's operating results will be adversely affected if revenues fall below its expectations in a particular quarter, which could cause the price of its common stock to decline significantly. The Company's quarterly revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate and be difficult to predict in the future, and such fluctuations could adversely affect its stock price. The Company's quarterly revenues and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and the Company believes they may continue to do so. As a result, you should not rely on the results of any one quarter or fiscal period as an indication of future performance and period-to-period comparisons of the Company's revenues and operating results may not be meaningful. Fluctuations in the Company's quarterly operating results could result in decreases in its stock price. The Company's quarterly operating results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including, among others, those described elsewhere in this section and those listed below, many of which are outside of the Company's control. •fluctuations in demand for network infrastructure equipment; •the timing of receipt, reduction or cancellation of significant orders; •fluctuations in the levels of component inventories held by the Company's customers and channel partners; •the gain or loss of significant customers; •market acceptance of the Company's products and the Company's customers' products; •the Company's ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis; •the availability and cost of products from the Company's suppliers; •new product and technology introductions by competitors; •intellectual property disputes; and •the timing and extent of product development costs. The Company's operating results may be adversely impacted by economic conditions and uncertainties in the markets it addresses, including the cyclical nature of and volatility in the semiconductor industry. As a result, the market price of the Company's common stock may decline. The Company operates primarily in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards. From time to time, the semiconductor industry has experienced significant and extended downturns. These downturns are characterized by decreases in product demand, excess customer inventories, and accelerated erosion of prices. These factors could cause substantial fluctuations in the Company's revenues and in its results of operations. Any downturns in the semiconductor industry may be severe and prolonged and any failure of the industry or wired and wireless communications markets to fully recover from downturns could seriously impact the Company's revenues and harm its business, financial condition, and results of operations. The semiconductor industry also periodically experiences increased demand and production capacity constraints which may affect the Company's ability to manufacture and ship products. Accordingly, the Company's operating results may vary significantly as a result of the general conditions in the semiconductor industry, which could cause large fluctuations in its stock price. 16 Table of Contents The short life cycles of some of the Company's products may leave it with obsolete or excess inventories, which could have an adverse impact on its operating profit and net income results. The life cycles of some of the Company's products depend heavily upon the life cycles of the end products for which its products are designed. Products with short life cycles require the Company to manage production and inventory levels closely. Write-offs of obsolete or excess inventories resulting from unanticipated changes in the estimated total demand for the Company's products and/or the estimated life cycles of the end products for which its products are designed may negatively affect its operating profit and net income results. The Company has limited control over the indirect channels of distribution the Company utilizes, which makes it difficult to accurately forecast orders and could result in the loss of certain sales opportunities. A portion of the Company's sales is realized through independent resellers and distributors that are not under its control. These independent sales organizations generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could reduce their sales efforts applied to the Company's products or terminate their representation of the Company. The Company's revenues could be adversely affected if its relationships with resellers or distributors were to deteriorate or if the financial condition of one or more significant resellers or distributors were to decline. In addition, as the Company's business grows, there may be an increased reliance on indirect channels of distribution. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in maintaining or expanding these indirect channels of distribution. This uncertainty could result in the loss of certain sales opportunities. Furthermore, the reliance on indirect channels of distribution may reduce visibility with respect to future business, thereby, making it more difficult to accurately forecast orders. The Company's accounting policy uses the "sell-through" model. The "sell-through" model recognizes revenue only upon shipment of the merchandise from its distributor to the final customer. Because the Company uses the "sell-through" methodology it may have variability in its revenue from quarter to quarter as customers have substantial flexibility to reschedule backlog with most of its channel partners as part of their terms and conditions of sale. Order or shipment cancellations or deferrals could cause unplanned inventory growth resulting in excess inventory, which may adversely affect the Company's operating results. The Company sells, and expects to continue selling, a significant number of products pursuant to purchase orders that customers may cancel or defer on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. If a customer cancels or defers product shipments or refuses to accept shipped products, the Company may incur unanticipated reductions or delays in recognizing revenues and be required to hold excess inventory. Holding excess inventory could reduce the Company's profit margins by reducing sales prices or requiring inventory write-downs or write-offs for excess or obsolete inventory. The Company's international sales and operations subject it to risks that could adversely affect its revenues and operating results. Sales to customers located outside North America account for a significant percentage of the Company's revenues. International sales constituted 60%, 59% and 49% of the Company's net revenue in fiscal year 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Development and customer support operations located outside North America have historically accounted for a significant percentage of the Company's operating expenses and it anticipates that such operations will continue to account for significant percentage of its expenses. International sales and operations involve a variety of risks and uncertainties, including risks related to: •reliance on strategic alliance partners; 17 Table of Contents •compliance with changing foreign regulatory requirements and tax laws; •difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; •reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; •longer payment cycles to collect accounts receivable in some countries; •political and economic instability; •economic downturns in international markets; •currency risks; •changing restrictions imposed by United States export laws, including increasing restrictions based on security concerns; and •competition from companies based in North America that have established significant international operations. Failure to successfully address these risks and uncertainties could adversely affect the Company's international sales and operations, which could in turn have a material and adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. If the Company is unable to develop and introduce new products successfully or to achieve market acceptance of its new products, its revenues and operating results will be adversely affected. The Company's future success will depend on its ability to develop new, high-performance ICs for existing and new markets and its success in developing and delivering these new products will depend on various factors, including its ability to: •accurately predict market requirements and evolving industry standards; •accurately define new products; •complete and introduce new products in a cost-effective and timely manner; •qualify and obtain industry interoperability certification of the Company's products and the Company's customers' products into which the Company's products will be incorporated; •work with the Company's wafer foundry, assembly, and probe and test subcontractors to achieve high manufacturing yields; •convince leading communications equipment manufacturers to select these products; and •gain market acceptance of the Company's products and the Company's customers' products. If the Company is not able to develop and introduce new products successfully and in a timely manner, its revenues and operating results will be materially and adversely affected. Demand for the Company's products is dependent on demand for its customers' products. The Company's success will also depend on the ability of its customers to successfully develop new products and enhance existing products for the Carrier and Enterprise Networking markets. These markets may not develop in the manner or in the time periods that the Company's customers anticipate. If they do not, or if the Company's customers' products do not gain widespread acceptance in these markets, its revenues and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents Demand for the Company's products may be negatively affected if its expectations regarding market demand for particular products are not accurate. Product introductions as well as plans for future products are based on the Company's expectations regarding market demand and direction. If the Company's expectations regarding market demand and direction are incorrect, the rate of development or acceptance of its current and next-generation solutions do not meet market demand and customer expectation, the sales of its legacy or current Carrier and Enterprise Networking and storage products decline more rapidly than the Company anticipates, or if the rate of decline continues to exceed the rate of growth of its new products, its revenues and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. The Company's ability to accurately forecast customer demand may also be impaired by the delays inherent in its lengthy sales cycle. After the Company has developed and delivered a product to a customer, its customers need time to test, evaluate and adopt its products and additional time to begin production of the equipment that incorporates its products. Due to this lengthy cycle, the Company may experience significant delays from the time the Company increases its operating expenses and makes investments in inventory until the time that the Company generates revenues from these products. It is possible that the Company may never generate any revenues from these products after incurring such expenditures. Even if a customer selects the Company's product to incorporate into their equipment or devices, the Company has no assurance that the customer will ultimately bring its product to market or that such effort by the Company's customer will be successful. If the Company incurs significant research and development expenses, marketing expenses, and investments in inventory in the future that the Company is not able to recover its operating results could be adversely affected. The Company is dependent on a small number of customers in a few industries for a significant amount of revenues. A decrease in sales to or the loss of, one or more significant customers could adversely impact the Company's revenues and results of operations. The Company focuses its sales efforts on a small number of customers in the Carrier and Enterprise Networking and storage markets that require high-performance ICs. The Company intends to continue doing so in the future. Some of these customers are also the Company's competitors. If any of the Company's major customers were to delay orders of the Company's products or stop buying the Company's products, the Company's business and financial condition would be severely affected. Additionally, if any of the Company's customers are impacted by consolidation, experience financial difficulty, or are impacted by adverse economic conditions that would delay networking infrastructure upgrades, build-outs or new installations, the Company could experience increased competition for its products and downward pressure on the pricing of its products. The Company depends on third-party wafer foundries and other suppliers and subcontract manufacturers to manufacture and test substantially all of its current products and any delays in materials or packaging, availability of manufacturing capacity, or failure to meet quality control requirements could have material adverse effects on its customer relationships, revenues, and cash flows. Wafer fabrication for the Company's products is outsourced to third-party silicon wafer foundry subcontractors such as TSMC, Global Foundries, IBM, LSI Logic and United Microelectronics. The Company depends on these third-party wafer foundries to allocate a portion of their manufacturing capacity sufficient to meet its needs and to produce wafers of acceptable quality in a timely manner. There are significant risks associated with the Company's reliance on third-party foundries, including: •lack of assured wafer supply, the potential for wafer shortages, and possible increase in wafer prices; •limited control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, product costs, and product quality; and •unavailability of, or delays in, obtaining access to key process technologies. 19 Table of Contents These and other risks associated with the Company's reliance on third-party wafer foundries could materially and adversely affect its revenues, cash flows, operating results, and relationships with its customers. The Company's third-party wafer foundries fabricate products for other companies and, in certain cases, manufacture products of their own design. Historically, there have been periods in which there has been a worldwide shortage of wafer foundry capacity for the production of high-performance ICs such as the Company's. Instead of having long-term agreements with any of the Company's third-party foundries, it subcontracts its manufacturing requirements on a purchase order basis. As a result, it is possible that the capacity the Company will need in the future may not be available to it on acceptable terms, if at all. A significant portion of the Company's manufacturing operations are located in Asia. These areas are subject to natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis and floods. A significant natural disaster or other catastrophic event could significantly disrupt the Company's foundries' production capabilities and could result in the Company experiencing a significant delay in delivery or substantial shortage of wafers and possibly in higher wafer prices. Any supply disruption or business interruption could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of the Company's foundries do not have adequate available capacity for it for any reason, the Company may encounter supply delays or disruptions, and it may need to qualify an alternative foundry. The Company's current foundries need to have new manufacturing processes qualified if there is a disruption in an existing process. The Company typically requires several months to qualify a new foundry or process before it can begin shipping products from the new foundry. If the Company cannot accomplish this qualification in a timely manner, it may experience a significant interruption in supply of the affected products. In addition to third-party wafer foundries, the Company also depends on third-party subcontractors in Asia and the United States for the assembly, wafer probe and package testing of its products. As with the wafer foundries, any difficulty in obtaining parts or services from these subcontractors could affect its ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to customers, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on the Company's customer relationships, revenues, and operating results. These third-party subcontractors purchase materials used in the assembly process based on the Company's forecast. In the event the Company fails to meet its obligations by placing purchase orders that are inconsistent with its forecast, the Company may be required to pay compensation for material forecasted, but not ordered. This obligation may have an adverse effect on revenues, operating results, and cash flows. As with wafer fabrication, worldwide assembly and testing capacity is limited and the Company is dependent on its suppliers to provide enough capacity in the correct mix to address all of its requirements. The master service agreements with the Company's assembly subcontractors have provisions for the subcontractors to maintain inventory stocks based on forecast, but do not include any guaranteed capacity agreement clauses. As a result, it is possible that the capacity the Company will need in the future may not be available to it on acceptable terms, if at all, and the Company could experience shortages or assembly problems in the future. As part of the Company's test outsourcing agreement, it consigned testing equipment to its test subcontractor. The availability of assembly and test services from these subcontractors could be materially and adversely affected in the event a subcontractor experiences financial difficulties or suffers any damage to its facilities. Many of the Company's products have very long life cycles, often exceeding ten years or more. These life cycles may be longer than what is typically supported by wafer and/or assembly manufacturers. Accordingly, the Company is sometimes subjected to end-of-life notices on certain materials and/or products provided by these manufacturers. This longer life cycle may impact the Company's ability to continue to support certain products, forcing it to cease offering these products if 20 Table of Contents it cannot obtain a replacement source of material. This longer life cycle may impact revenues and/or require the Company to incur additional costs to obtain alternative sources for these materials. If the Company does not achieve satisfactory manufacturing yields or quality, its business will be harmed because of increases in its business expenses. The fabrication of ICs is a highly complex and technically demanding process. Defects in designs, problems associated with transitions to newer manufacturing processes, and the inadvertent use of defective or contaminated materials can result in unacceptable manufacturing yields and performance. These problems are frequently difficult to detect in the early stages of the production process and can be time-consuming and expensive to correct once detected. Even though the Company procures substantially all of its wafers from third-party foundries, the Company may be responsible for low yields when these wafers are tested against its quality control standards. In addition, defects in the Company's existing or new products may require the Company to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, and could divert the attention of the Company's engineering personnel away from the development of new products. In the past, the Company has experienced difficulties in achieving acceptable probe and/or final test yields on some of its products, particularly with new products, which frequently involve new manufacturing processes and smaller geometry features than previous generations. Decreased yields can result in higher unit costs, shipment delays, and increased expenses associated with resolving yield problems. Because the Company also estimates yields to value work-in-process inventory, yields below its estimates may require it to increase the value of inventory and related reserves reflected on its financial statements. Poor manufacturing yields, defects or other performance problems with the Company's products could adversely affect its ability to provide competitively priced products and its operating results. Defects, errors, or failures in the Company's products could result in higher costs than it expects and could harm its reputation and adversely affect its revenues and level of customer satisfaction. Due to the highly complex nature of the Company's products, on occasion an undetected defect, error, or failure may occur when one of its products is deployed in the field. The occurrence of defects, errors, or failures in the Company's products could result in cancellation of orders, product returns, and the loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of its IC solutions. The Company's customers could, in turn, bring legal actions against it, resulting in the diversion of its resources, legal expenses and judgments, fines or other penalties, or losses. Any of these occurrences could adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations, and financial condition. The Company faces significant emerging and existing competition and, therefore, may not be able to maintain its market share or may be negatively impacted by competitive pricing practices. The markets for the Company's products are intensely competitive and subject to rapid technological advancement in design technology, wafer manufacturing techniques, and alternative networking technologies. The Company must compete to capture future market opportunities to offset the rapid price erosion that characterizes its industry. The Company typically faces competition at the design stage, where customers evaluate alternative design approaches that require ICs. The Company's competitors have increasingly frequent opportunities to supplant its products in next-generation systems because of shortened product life and design cycles in many of its customers' products. The Company's customers may substitute use of the Company's products in their next-generation equipment with those of current or future competitors. In the communications market, which includes the Company's Carrier and Enterprise Network markets, competitors include Applied Micro Circuits, Broadcom, Marvell Technology Group, Maxim Integrated Products, Mindspeed Technologies, and PMC-Sierra. Larger competitors in the Company's 21 Table of Contents market have acquired both mature and early stage companies with advanced technologies. These acquisitions could enhance the ability of larger competitors to obtain new business that the Company might have otherwise won. In addition, the Company is aware of smaller privately held companies that focus on specific portions of the Company's range of products. Over the next few years, the Company expects additional competitors, some of which may have greater financial and other resources than the Company has, to enter the market with new products. These companies, individually and collectively, represent future competition during the design stage and in subsequent product sales. The Company must keep pace with rapid technological change and evolving industry standards in order to grow its revenues and its business. The Company sells products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological changes in both product and process technologies, including evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles, and increasing demand for higher levels of integration and smaller process geometries. The Company believes that its success, to a large extent, depends on its ability to adapt to these changes, to continue to improve its product technologies, and to develop new products and technologies to maintain its competitive position. The Company's failure to accomplish any of these objectives could have a negative impact on its business and financial results. If new industry standards emerge, the Company's products or its customers' products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and the Company could lose market share. The Company may also have to incur substantial unanticipated costs to comply with these new standards. Development costs for new product technologies continue to increase. The Company may incur substantially higher research and development costs for next-generation products, as these products are typically more complex and must be implemented in more advanced wafer fabrication processes and assembly technologies. The Company's operating results may be adversely impacted by worldwide political and economic conditions and uncertainties. As a result, the market price of its common stock may decline. Recent general worldwide economic conditions have included slower economic activity, an increase in bankruptcy filings, concerns about inflation and deflation, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions, liquidity concerns in the wired and wireless communications markets, international conflicts, terrorist and military activity, and the impact of natural disasters and public health emergencies. These conditions make it extremely difficult for the Company's customers, its vendors, and it to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and these conditions have caused, and may continue to cause, United States and foreign businesses to slow spending on the Company's products and services, which delays and lengthens sales cycles. Although some economic conditions have improved in recent months, the Company cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any slowdown or subsequent recovery in the worldwide economy, the semiconductor industry or the wired and wireless communications markets. If the economy or markets in which the Company operates do not return to historical levels, its business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. The Company's business is subject to environmental regulations that could increase its operating expenses. The Company is subject to a variety of federal, state, and local environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, and disposal of toxic, volatile, and other hazardous chemicals used in the Company's designing and manufacturing processes. In some circumstances, these regulations may require the Company to fund remedial action regardless of fault. Consequently, it is often difficult to estimate the future impact of environmental matters, including the potential liabilities associated with chemicals used in the Company's design and manufacturing processes. If the Company fails to comply 22 Table of Contents with these regulations, it could be subject to fines or be required to suspend or cease its operations. In addition, these regulations may restrict the Company's ability to expand operations at its present locations in the United States and worldwide or require it to incur significant compliance related expenses. Laws and regulations have been enacted in several jurisdictions in which the Company sells its products, including various European Union, or EU, member countries. For example, the RoHS directive restricts the use of certain hazardous substances, including lead, used in the construction of component parts of electrical and electronic equipment. The Company believes that its products comply with the RoHS directive; however, if the Company fails to comply with these regulations in the future the Company may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and the Company could be subject to civil or criminal penalties. The Company may incur increased manufacturing costs, and some products may be subject to production delays to comply with future legislation which implements this directive, but the Company cannot currently estimate the extent of such increased costs or production delays, if any. To the extent that any such cost increases or delays are substantial, the Company's operating results could be materially adversely affected. Also, the Company is aware that lead times for new, compliant components are longer and that older, non-compliant components are being discontinued at a fast pace. The Company or its customers may be impacted by shortages if parts that comply with the RoHS directive are not available. Similar legislation may be enacted in other countries or regions where the Company sells the Company's products. The Company will need to ensure that it complies with these laws and regulations as they are enacted, and that its subcontractors also comply with these laws and regulations. If the Company or its subcontractors fail to comply with the legislation, its customers may refuse or be unable to purchase its products, which could harm its business, operating results and financial condition. If the Company has to make significant capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws, or if it is subject to significant expenses in connection with a violation of these laws, its business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. If the Company is not successful in protecting its intellectual property rights, its ability to compete or maintain market share may be harmed. The Company relies on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret protections, as well as confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect the Company's proprietary technologies and processes. For example, the Company enters into confidentiality agreements with its employees, consultants, and business partners, and controls access to and distribution of the Company's proprietary information. As of September 30, 2010, the Company had 89 U.S. patents and 20 foreign patents for various aspects of design and process innovations and has a number of pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. However, despite the Company's efforts to protect its intellectual property, the Company cannot assure you that: •steps the Company takes to prevent misappropriation or infringement of its intellectual property will be successful; •any existing or future patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented; •any pending patent applications or future applications will be approved; •others will not independently develop similar products or processes to the Company's or design around the Company's patents; or •any of the measures described above will provide meaningful protection. 23 Table of Contents The Company may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights or demands that it license third-party technology, which could result in significant expense and loss of its proprietary rights. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. As is common in the industry, from time to time, third parties have asserted patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to the Company's business and have demanded that the Company license their patents and technology. To date, none of these claims has resulted in the commencement of any litigation against the Company, nor has the Company believed that it is necessary to license any of the rights referred to in such claims. The Company expects, however, that it will continue to receive such claims in the future, and any litigation to determine their validity, regardless of its merit or resolution, could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of its management and technical personnel. The Company's recent efforts to license its intellectual property to third parties may also increase the potential for others to initiate claims against it. The Company cannot assure that it would prevail in such disputes given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If such litigation were to result in an adverse ruling the Company could be required to: •pay substantial damages; •discontinue the use of infringing technology, including ceasing the manufacture, use or sale of infringing products; •expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology; or •license technology from the party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. Litigation resulting in any of the above could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and operating results. The Company is subject to United States Customs and Export Regulations The Company is subject to United States Customs and Export Regulations, including United States International Traffic and Arms Regulations and similar laws, which collectively control import, export and sale of technologies by United States companies. Failure to comply with such regulations may result in civil and criminal enforcement, including monetary fines and possible injunctions against shipment of product, which could have a material adverse impact on its results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to an Investment in The Company The Company has significant debt in the form of its Senior Term Loan and 2014 Debentures. The Company has $25.0 million in original principal of its senior term loan with Whitebox VSC, Ltd. ("Whitebox"), plus $1.3 million of accrued payment-in-kind ("PIK") interest outstanding ("Senior Term Loan"). On October 29, 2011, the Company is obligated to repay the full remaining principal, amount of the notes, plus accrued PIK interest through that date. The Company has $46.5 million of its 8.00% Convertible Second Lien Debentures Due 2014 (the "2014 Debentures") outstanding. On October 29, 2014, the Company is obligated to repay the principal amount of the 2014 Debentures. The Company's debt could materially and adversely affect its ability to obtain financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes and could make it vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. The Company's ability to meet its debt service obligations will be dependent upon its future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting its operations, many of which are beyond its control. The Company believes that its existing sources of liquidity, along with cash expected to be generated from product sales, will be sufficient to fund its 24 Table of Contents financing requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, this may not be the case. If the Company incurs operating losses and negative cash flows in the future, the Company may need to further reduce its operating costs or obtain alternate sources of financing, or both. The Company may need additional capital in the future and may not have access to additional sources of capital on favorable terms or at all. If the Company raises additional funds through the issuance of equity-based or debt securities, such securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of its common stock and its stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests. The Company's stockholders will experience significant dilution in connection with the conversion of its Series B Preferred Stock and its 2014 Debentures. As of September 30, 2010, the Company had 23,986,531 million shares of common stock outstanding. In connection with the October 30, 2009 debt restructuring, the Company issued 771,000 shares of its Series B Preferred Stock convertible into an aggregate of 3,855,000 shares of its common stock and $50.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 2014 Debentures convertible into 11,109,556 shares of its common stock. As of September 30, 2010, the Company had outstanding 185,709 shares of its convertible Series B Preferred Stock and $46.5 million of 2014 Debentures. Full conversion of the currently outstanding Series B Preferred Stock and principal amount of the 2014 Debentures would result in the issuance of 11,260,323 shares of common stock. The conversion of its shares of Series B Preferred Stock and the conversion of its 2014 Debentures could have a significant dilutive impact on the ownership rights of its stockholders. The market price for the Company's common stock has been volatile due, in part, to the Company's delisting from the NASDAQ National Market in June 2006 and future volatility could cause the value of investments in the Company to fluctuate. As a result of the Company's failure to comply fully with its reporting requirements under the Exchange Act, the Company's common stock has been delisted from the NASDAQ National Market. The Company currently is quoted under the symbol VTSS.PK on the OTCQB Marketplace of the Pink OTC Markets, Inc., an electronic quotation service for securities traded over-the-counter by companies that are registered with, and reporting under the rules and regulations of, the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result, there may be significantly less liquidity in the market for the Company's common stock. The Company's stock is deemed to be a "penny stock" (generally, any equity security not listed on a national securities exchange or quoted on the NASDAQ Stock Market that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions) subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trade in the Company's stock. Many brokerage firms are reluctant to recommend low-priced stocks to their clients. Moreover, various regulations and policies restrict the ability of stockholders to borrow against or "margin" low-priced stocks, and declines in the stock price below certain levels may result in unexpected margin calls. Additionally, because brokers' commissions on low-priced stocks generally represent a higher percentage of the stock price than commissions on higher priced stocks, the current price of the common stock can result in an individual stockholder paying transaction costs that represent a higher percentage of total share value than would be the case if the Company's share price were higher. This factor may also limit the willingness of institutions to purchase the Company's common stock. Finally, the additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements could discourage broker-dealers from facilitating trades in the Company's common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the stock and the ability of investors to trade the Company's common stock. In addition, the Company's ability to raise additional capital through equity financing, and attract and retain personnel by means of equity compensation, may be impaired. Furthermore, the Company 25 Table of Contents may experience decreases in institutional and other investor demand, analyst coverage, market making activity, and information available concerning trading prices and volume, and fewer broker-dealers may be willing to execute trades with respect to the Company's common stock. The delisting has decreased the attractiveness of the Company's common stock and caused the trading volume of the Company's common stock to decline significantly, which has resulted in a significant decline in the market price of its common stock. The Company intends to seek to be relisted on a securities exchange in the future. There can be no assurance whether the Company will satisfy the standards for listing on an exchange or that an exchange will approve the Company's listing. Nor can there be any assurance when a relisting would occur. Continuing to be quoted only on Pink Sheets could result in continued volatility in the trading price of the Company's common stock and could cause its value to fluctuate. The holders of the 2014 Debentures have significant influence over the Company and could act in a manner with which other stockholders may disagree or that is not necessarily in the interests of other stockholders. As of September 30, 2010, the holders of the 2014 Debentures owned approximately 51.9% of the Company's outstanding common stock and all of the Company's Series B Preferred Stock (convertible into 3.9% of the Company's common stock). These stockholders have significant influence over all matters submitted to the Company's stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets. For as long as these holders own the 2014 Debentures, they may have interests that are different from those of other stockholders who do not also own 2014 Debentures. For example, the holders of the 2014 Debentures may support proposals and actions with which other stockholders may disagree or which are not in their interests. In addition, their combined ownership of common stock, Series B Preferred Stock and 2014 Debentures could motivate them to support a sale of the Company at a price that is not attractive to many of the Company's stockholders. Furthermore, the concentration of ownership could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company or otherwise discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of the Company, which in turn could reduce the price of the Company's common stock. The Company had material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting in the recent past and the Company cannot provide assurance that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. The material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, previously referenced in the Company's quarterly and annual reports for fiscal years 2006 through 2009 and the Company's quarterly reports for fiscal 2010, have been remediated. The Company concluded that, as of September 30, 2010, the Company has remediated these material weaknesses as a result of the following remedial actions: •Increased IT controls to limit access to key applications and data; •Increased review controls over access to key applications and data; •Utilized outside experts to redesign and test processes, reviews, and controls; and •Expanded operational and finance management review over key inventory metrics and transactions and increased controls over inventory cut-off. The Company regularly reviews its system of internal control over financial reporting and makes changes to its processes and systems to improve controls and increase efficiency, while ensuring that the Company maintains an effective internal control environment. Changes may include such activities as implementing new, more efficient systems, consolidating activities, and migrating processes. However, the Company cannot provide assurance that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. If the Company's internal control over financial reporting or disclosure control and procedures 26 Table of Contents are not effective, there may be errors in the Company's financial statements that could require a restatement or delay the Company's filings and, as a result, investors may lose confidence in the Company's reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in the Company's stock price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 