Risk Factors Risks specific to the Company • A significant portion of the Company’s revenues are generated from overseas customers A major source of the Company’s revenue is derived from the provision of consulting services to customers in the automotive, motorcycle, marine, recreation, government, defence and utility engine sectors. These services are provided by the Company through its “Orbital Consulting Services” business. A significant portion of the revenue of this business is generated from overseas customers. Orbital Consulting Service’s competitiveness is largely dependent on the relative strength of the Australian dollar against the US dollar. An increase in the value of the Australian dollar against the US dollar is likely to result in a reduction in demand for the consulting services, and accordingly, may result in the Company suffering a reduction in revenue. - 5 - Table of Contents In addition, the demand for the “Orbital Consulting Services” is dependent on the overall economic conditions in the markets in which the business operates. A large proportion of the consulting services provided by the Company relates to new technology development for engine manufacturers. In the event of an economic downturn in any of our customer’s countries, or indeed in the event of global market deterioration, investment in new products (to which the Company’s consulting services relate) is likely to fall, and by extension, the demand for the Company’s consulting services is likely to be reduced. Such an occurrence will have a negative impact on the revenue generated by the Company’s “Orbital Consulting Services” business line. The Company records its transactions and prepares its financial statements in Australian dollars. The share of profits from the equity accounted investment in Synerject and most of the Company’s earnings from royalties are denominated in US dollars. When the Australian dollar appreciates against the US dollar, the US dollar earnings would convert into fewer Australian dollars. However, when the US dollar appreciates against the Australian dollar the US dollar earnings would convert into more Australian dollars. Fluctuations in exchange rates between the Australian dollar and the US dollar may also affect the book value of assets and the Company’s operating results. The Company buys parts for use in its LPG Fuel systems in US dollars and Euro’s. A decrease in the value of the Australian dollar against the US dollar and/or Euro will result in increased costs of supply which may not be able to be passed on to customers. • The Company is dependent on a small number of key customers for the majority of its revenues Two customers (AAI Corporation and Ford Australia) accounted for 63% of the total revenue of the Company for the financial year ended June 30, 2013 (and 44% for the year ended June 30, 2012). The loss of these key customers would have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and its operating results. Responsibility for the production of SUAS engines for AAI is being transitioned to a non-Orbital USA based company. Revenues from SUAS will thus be significantly lower in the next financial year as Orbital will move from being a supplier of complete engines to a supplier of engine management systems, fuel system components and spare parts. As announced on July 13, 2013, Orbital was awarded a contract for the design, development and validation of a next generation production engine for a USA based customer that is one of the largest in the SUAS market. The Company will remain dependent on a key customer for its SUAS related revenue in fiscal 2014. The Company supplies Ford Australia with LPG fuel system components for utilization in its EcoLPi Ford Falcon vehicle range. The Company’s sales to Ford Australia are dependent on Ford’s sales of vehicles with this technology. The Company is aware that Ford Australia’s sales of large vehicles have in recent times suffered a decrease and Ford Australia made an announcement that it will cease the manufacture of vehicles in Australia in 2016. This is expected to have an adverse effect on the Company’s sales to Ford Australia. In the event that demand for large vehicles continues to fall, this will have an adverse effect on the Company’s profitability. In addition, the Company also derives a significant portion of its revenue from its 30% ownership interest in Synerject LLC. (Synerject), whose business of engine management systems for non-automotive markets is also reliant on a small number of key customers for the majority of its revenues. A loss of these key customers, for whatever reason, is likely to have material adverse effect on the Company’s profitability. • The Company may not be able to satisfactorily develop the next generation SUAS engine The Company has recently been awarded a contract for the design, development and validation of a next generation production engine for a USA based customer that is one of the largest in the SUAS market. The development program will be conducted through 2013 and 2014 and if successful will lead to higher volume production of SUAS engines in 2015. This contract carries the risk that the Company will be unable to successfully convert the development of the next generation SUAS engine into production by 2015. This may have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial position, ability to win future contracts and may negatively impact the Company’s reputation in the market place. • A reduction is the level of conversions of vehicles to LPG in Australia would have an adverse effect on the Company’s profitability A further major source of the Company’s revenue is derived from the provision of LPG fuel systems for vehicles that convert from traditional gasoline fuel systems. The current overall level of conversions of vehicles to LPG in Australia is significantly lower than in recent years. In the event the downward trend in LPG vehicle conversions continues, there will be less demand for the Company’s LPG fuel systems which is likely to have an adverse effect on the Company’s profitability. - 6 - Table of Contents The Company also continues to derive revenue from the sale of older generation LPG vapouriser kits through the Sprint Gas and Orbital Autogas Systems businesses. Changes in emissions regulations in Australia that came into effect on July 1, 2010 prohibit the manufacture of new vehicles with vapouriser kits. As a result, whilst sales of the LPG vapouriser kits to the aftermarket continue to be made for vehicles manufactured prior to June 30, 2010, the amount of revenue from LPG vapouriser kits is expected to decline going forward with the Company being more reliant on Liquid LPG fuel systems to maintain its revenue stream for this market. There is no guarantee that the sale of Liquid LPG fuel systems will be sufficient to compensate for the anticipated loss of revenue from the declining vapouriser kit market. • The Company relies on royalty income The Company’s licence agreements with engine manufacturers who utilise the Company’s FlexDiTM technology typically entitle the Company to receive a royalty payment upon the production of each engine incorporating the FlexDiTM technology. In the financial year ended June 30, 2013, royalty payments from these licence arrangements accounted for approximately 4% of the Company’s operating revenue. The royalties paid to the Company ultimately depend on the level of sales achieved by the engine manufacturers of their engines. As at September 30, 2013, three of the Company’s sixteen licensed engine manufacturers are in commercial production and selling products using FlexDiTM technology. The Company may not be able to enter into additional licence agreements with new engine manufacturer customers. In addition, those engine manufacturers who are currently party to licence arrangements with the Company may choose not to commercially produce engines incorporating FlexDiTM technology and those who do may not succeed in selling those products to end consumers. The failure to obtain new customers or receive royalties from existing or new customers could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and its operating results. • The Company relies on key employees The Company depends on the talent and experience of its employees as its primary asset. Whilst every effort is made to retain key employees and contractors and to recruit new personnel as the need arises, loss of a number of key personnel may adversely affect the Company’s earnings or growth prospects. • The Company relies on key suppliers The Company depends on key suppliers for the supply of critical and unique components for use in engines and engine management systems sold by the Company to its customers. The loss of one or more suppliers will require time to find an alternative source and profitability and growth will be negatively affected. • The Company may not be able to obtain sufficient funding The Company requires significant capital amounts to conduct its business. For example, the Company expects to incur on-going research and development costs and operating costs to enhance the FlexDiTM technology, UAS engine technology and liquid natural gas fuel “LNG” systems products. In the past, these costs have been paid with a combination of operating revenues, equity injections, debt and other financing. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will have sufficient operating revenues to fund future costs or that outside financing will be available at affordable prices, or at all. A failure to obtain sufficient financing for ongoing costs could prevent the Company from carrying out business plans on time and give an advantage to competitors with greater financial resources. If a shortage of financing causes long delays in the further development and commercialisation of FlexDiTM technology, licensees could choose not to build engines with FlexDiTM Technologies, LNG and UAS engine technologies or to use competing technologies. This could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. • The Company’s intellectual property rights may be infringed The Company has obtained patents on many aspects of its FlexDiTM technology, and has applied for additional patents on other aspects of its technologies. The Company’s success depends, in part, on its ability to protect its technology and products under applicable intellectual property laws. The Company is not a party to any present patent or intellectual property litigation, but in the future may need to commence legal proceedings against third parties to enforce its patent or other intellectual property rights or conversely may be presented with claims by third parties that allege the Company infringes their patent rights or other rights. A failure by the Company to prove, or protect (whichever the case may be), its intellectual property rights could have an adverse effect upon the Company. Even if the Company was successful in any intellectual property ownership disputes, the management time and legal expenses applied to such matters could have an adverse effect on the Company’s future operating results. - 7 - Table of Contents The Company also has trade secrets and know-how, which are not patentable but are still important to the Company’s business. The Company seeks to protect these rights through confidentiality agreements and contractual protections. These arrangements may not protect the Company from unauthorised use or disclosure of its trade secrets and know-how. • Competing technologies may displace the Company’s products The Company faces significant competition from engine and vehicle manufacturers and consulting firms specialising in internal combustion engine technology. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and technological resources than the Company. The Company’s commercial success depends in part upon whether its products can compete successfully against both existing and new engine technologies, including new technologies that are similar to the Company’s technologies. • The Company may face significant product liability claims A large product liability or professional indemnity judgement or product recall action could have a material adverse effect on the Company The Company is subject to business risk from product liability or professional indemnity suits if third parties claim that defects in technology supplied, or in consulting services provided, by the Company resulted in personal injury or other losses. The Company is also subject to business risk for product recall actions where a product supplied by the Company needs to be recalled due to an issue arising from its manufacture. The Company may also be required to indemnify licensees for claims arising from alleged defects in products, which use FlexDiTM technology or are designed or manufactured by the Company. The Company believes that sufficient product liability, product recall and professional indemnity insurance is held for the range of products and services currently provided to licensees and other customers, but sufficient coverage may not be able to be obtained in the future at affordable premiums, or at all. Even if the Company has such insurance, a judgement against the Company in a large product liability or professional indemnity suit or product recall action could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business or financial position. • The Company may fail to comply with future governmental regulations Products using FlexDiTM technology or other technologies under development by the Company must comply with many emissions, fuel economy and other regulations in Australia, the US and other countries. Based on internal testing, the Company believes that products using FlexDiTM technology and other technologies developed by the Company will be able to meet current emissions and fuel economy standards in the countries that are the Company’s most important markets. The effects of any future regulations on the Company’s business or results of operations cannot be predicted. However, if the Company were unable to comply with any material new regulations in Australia, the US or other key markets, this could delay further commercialisation of FlexDiTM technology and other technologies and have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. - 8 - Table of Contents 