Risk Factors • We have negative shareholders’ equity and a history of operating losses. Orbital has experienced operating losses over a number of years, as a result of which the Company’s net assets have been significantly reduced and the Company has negative shareholders’ equity under both Australian GAAP and US GAAP. If we were to incur future losses, we may not be able to continue our operations. For the reasons set out in Note 1.1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report, we believe that the Company is operating on a going concern basis. • Our customers may reduce their out-sourced engineering services expenditure. A major source of Orbital’s income is the provision of engineering services to customers in the automotive, motorcycle and marine and recreation sectors. Customers utilise Orbital’s services as they either do not have the necessary skills in-house or their internal resources are overloaded. The sourcing of overload work is very dependent on the state of the market. In the event of a market downturn, this source of work would diminish. Reduction by Orbital’s customers on their expenditure on out-sourced engineering services may substantially lessen the revenue received by Orbital. • The future fees we receive under agreements with Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEMs”) may be substantially less than the fees received in recent years. Agreements are entered into with vehicle, engine and component manufacturers and financing parties that grant rights to manufacture, use and sell products that utilise OCP Technology. In the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005, royalty and licence fees revenue generated from the seventeen current licensed users of OCP technology and their affiliates accounted for approximately 19% of Orbital’s consolidated operating revenues. During the last three fiscal years, royalty and licence fees income from licensed users accounted for approximately 19% of Orbital’s total consolidated revenues. In 2003 and prior years, Orbital generated revenue from system sales to its licensees. The marine end recreation system sales business was transferred to Synerject LLC (“Synerject”), our 50:50 joint venture with SiemensVDO Automotive, in April 2003. Orbital has already received a majority of the total lump sum fees due under its existing license agreements. The amount of additional lump sum fees earned under these agreements will depend on several factors, including the commercialisation of products incorporating OCP Technology, whether the licensees expand the territories or volumes covered by the agreements and whether additional engineering or engine development services are provided. As a result, the remaining fees received by Orbital under existing agreements may be substantially less than the fees received in prior years. • The failure to obtain new customers or receive royalties from existing or new customers could have a material adverse effect on us. The agreements with OEMs usually entitle Orbital to receive ongoing royalties when licensees sell engines incorporating OCP Technology. The total royalties paid to Orbital will depend on whether manufacturers succeed in selling large numbers of these engines to consumers. As at December 31, 2005, seven of Orbital’s seventeen current licensed users are in commercial production and selling engines using OCP Technology. Orbital has not received any royalty payments, other than insubstantial minimum annual royalty payments, under any of its other agreements. Orbital may not be able to enter into additional agreements with new customers. In addition, current licensees may choose not to commercially produce engines incorporating OCP Technology, and those who do may not succeed in selling these products to consumers. The failure to obtain new customers or receive royalties from existing or new customers could have a material adverse effect on Orbital’s business and results of operations. - 6 - Table of Contents • We rely on a small number of key customers. Orbital relies on a small number of key customers for the majority of its revenues. Three customers accounted for 36% of total revenue in fiscal 2005. The loss of one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on Orbital’s business and results of operations. The three customers referred to above accounted for 28% of Orbital’s total revenue in fiscal 2004. Synerject, which makes a significant contribution to Orbital’s overall result, is also reliant on a small number of key customers for the majority of its revenues. In fiscal 2005, two customers accounted for 73% (2004: 73%) of Synerject’s total revenue. • We may not be able to successfully complete the production testing programs for the application of OCP Technology to customer engines. Orbital and its licensees engage in production testing programs, which typically last two to four years, for the application of OCP Technology to customer engines. These tests must be successfully completed before manufacturers will consider committing the large capital amounts needed to modify existing or build new engine manufacturing plants. Orbital generally receives engineering fees for undertaking these programs. Orbital may not be able to complete these testing programs successfully or without unforeseen problems or delays. As a result there can be no certainty that further products using OCP Technology will be introduced into the market or that Orbital will continue to receive engineering fees for performing these production programs. • The market may not accept OCP Technology. Many factors will influence whether Orbital’s licensees decide to produce engines commercially using OCP Technology. These include the cost of adapting existing facilities or building new manufacturing facilities, the cost of producing each system and the reliability and efficiency of OCP Technology. Manufacturers also will evaluate competing technologies and consider how government fuel economy and emissions standards in different countries may favour one technology over another. If manufacturers begin commercial production using OCP Technology, the number of engines sold will depend on market acceptance. Many of these factors are beyond Orbital’s control, but will ultimately affect the amount of royalties received. If licensees decide not to use OCP Technology commercially or consumers choose not to buy products incorporating OCP Technology, there would be a material adverse effect on Orbital’s business and results of operations. • We may not be able to fund the capital and working capital requirements necessary for our business. Orbital has needed significant capital amounts to conduct its business, although these costs are now minimal. Orbital will incur on-going research and development costs and operating costs to develop second generation OCP Technology to improve performance or lower unit costs to extend the roll out of our technology. In the past, these costs have been paid with a combination of operating revenues, equity injections, debt and other financing. However, there can be no assurance that Orbital will have sufficient operating revenues to fund future costs or that outside financing will be available at affordable prices, or at all. A failure to obtain sufficient financing for ongoing costs could prevent Orbital from carrying out business plans on time and give an advantage to competitors with greater financial resources. If a shortage of financing caused long delays in the further development and commercialisation of OCP Technology, licensees could choose not to build engines with OCP Technologies or to use competing technologies. This could have a material adverse effect on Orbital’s business and results of operations. If Orbital has insufficient cash available to meet its costs, it may be required to cease operations. • We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. Orbital has obtained patents on many aspects of its OCP Technology, and has applied for additional patents on other aspects of this technology. Orbital’s success in part, may depend upon the ability to protect the technology and products under United States and foreign intellectual property laws. Orbital is not a party to any present patent or intellectual property litigation, but in the future may be sued by other parties that claim OCP Technology infringes their patent rights or other rights, or may need to sue other parties to enforce its patent or other intellectual property rights. In the event of being sued by other parties, if proved, these claims could have a material adverse effect upon Orbital. Even if Orbital won any of these suits, the management time and legal expenses required to defend these claims could have an adverse effect on Orbital’s future operating results. Orbital also has trade - 7 - Table of Contents secrets and know-how, which are not patentable but are still important to Orbital’s business. Orbital seeks to protect these rights through confidentiality agreements and contractual protections. These arrangements may not protect Orbital from unauthorised use or disclosure of its trade secrets and know-how. • Our share price may be volatile. The price of Orbital’s ordinary shares on the Australian Stock Exchange (“ASX”) and price of the ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange (prior to July 1, 2004) and the OTC Bulletin Board have experienced historic volatility. (Orbital’s ADSs were de-listed from the NYSE effective June 30, 2004 and the ADSs now trade only on the OTC Bulletin Board.) In addition, high technology stocks traded in both markets have experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations from time to time, even though these changes were sometimes unrelated to the operating performance of specific companies. Announcements of operating results or technical innovations by Orbital or its competitors, including reports or announcements about OCP Technology, may have a material effect on the market price of the ordinary shares or the ADSs. On December 31, 2005, the closing price of Orbital’s ordinary shares on the ASX was A$0.098, which was a decrease of approximately 7% from the closing price of A$0.105 on June 30, 2005. The closing price of the ADSs on the OTC Bulletin Board on December 31, 2005 was US$2.65, a decrease of approximately 18% from the closing price of US$3.25 for the ADSs on the OTC Bulletin Board on June 30, 2005. See Item 9. - “The Offer and Listing - Nature of Trading Market”. • A large product liability or professional indemnity judgement could have a material adverse effect on us. Orbital is subject to business risk from product liability or professional indemnity suits if third parties claim that defects in OCP Technology or in engineering services provided by Orbital resulted in personal injury or other losses. Orbital may also be required to indemnify licensees for claims arising from alleged defects in products, which use OCP Technology or are designed or manufactured by Orbital. Licensees are, however, required to indemnify us from liabilities caused by defects in products not manufactured by Orbital. Orbital believes that sufficient product liability and indemnity insurance is held for the range of products and services currently provided to licensees and other customers but sufficient coverage may not be able to be obtained in the future, at affordable costs, or at all. Even if Orbital has such insurance, a judgement against us in a large product liability or professional indemnity suit could have a material adverse effect on Orbital’s business or financial condition. • OCP Technology may not be able to compete successfully against other engine technologies. Orbital faces significant competition from automobile and engine manufacturers and engineering firms specialising in internal combustion engine technology. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and technological resources than Orbital. Orbital’s commercial success depends in part upon whether OCP Technology can compete successfully against both existing and new engine technologies, including new technologies that are similar to OCP Technology. To achieve further commercial success, OCP Technology will need to displace current four-stroke and two-stroke internal combustion engine technologies, which have a dominant market position. Current four-stroke and two-stroke engine technologies may continue to dominate the engine market, or they may be replaced by new technologies other than OCP Technology. Orbital’s competitors may develop products that are technically superior to Orbital’s products or more acceptable to the market. This could reduce available market share to Orbital or make OCP Technology less attractive or obsolete, which would have a material adverse effect on Orbital’s business. • Fluctuations in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on us. Orbital records its transactions and prepares its financial statements in Australian dollars. Most of Orbital’s earnings from license and supply agreements are in US dollars. Cash and investments are denominated in both Australian and US dollars. Almost all Orbital’s expenditures are denominated in Australian dollars. When the US dollar appreciates against the Australian dollar, the US dollar earnings would convert into more Australian dollars. However, when the US dollar depreciates against the Australian dollar the US dollar earnings would convert into fewer Australian dollars. Fluctuations in exchange rates between the Australian dollar and the US dollar may also affect the book value of assets and the amount of shareholders’ equity. To reduce its potential currency exposure, Orbital has entered into forward foreign currency exchange contracts to fix, in Australian dollars, the majority of forecast US dollar royalty and engineering services fee receipts. Details of Orbital’s total foreign currency forward exchange contracts as at June 30, 2005 are contained in Item 5 – “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Foreign currency exchange sensitivity”. As at December 31, 2005, Orbital’s outstanding forward foreign currency exchange contracts totalled US$1.15 million. See also Item 3 – “Key Information - Exchange Rate Information” above. - 8 - Table of Contents • We may not be able to comply with future governmental regulations. Products using OCP Technology must comply with many emissions, fuel economy and other regulations in the US and other countries. Based on internal testing, Orbital believes that products using OCP Technology will be able to meet current emissions and fuel economy standards in the countries that are Orbital’s most important markets. The effects of any future regulations on Orbital’s business or results of operations cannot be predicted. However, if Orbital were unable to comply with any material new regulations in the US or other key markets, this could delay further commercialisation of OCP Technology and have a material adverse effect on Orbital’s business and results of operations. • Classification as a “PFIC” would result in adverse tax treatment to our US shareholders. Under US federal tax laws, a foreign corporation is treated as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) if 50% or more of its assets or 75% or more of its income is passive. Historically, Orbital has not been treated as a PFIC and currently believes that it is not a PFIC. This is, however, a factual determination made annually, which could change, based upon future developments or changes in Orbital’s gross income or the value of its assets. If Orbital were classified as a PFIC in any taxable year, a US holder of Ordinary Shares or ADSs would be subject to special rules. These rules are intended to reduce or eliminate any benefit from the deferral of US income tax that a US holder could derive if the foreign company does not distribute all of its earnings on a current basis. See Item 10. - “Additional Information - United States Federal Income Taxation”. • We may be required to meet our guarantee obligations to Siemens in respect of the loan to Synerject. Orbital has a 50% interest in Synerject LLC (“Synerject”), a joint venture with SiemensVDO Automotive. Refer to Item 4 – “Information on the Company – Strategic Alliances – Siemens”. Synerject has borrowings of approximately US$13 million from Siemens, half of which have been guaranteed by Orbital. The loan is due for repayment in full on September 30, 2006, provided agreed payments are made during the intervening period. This payment schedule was set having regard to the business restructure of Synerject which took effect from April 1, 2003. While there can be no assurances, management expects the loan to be extended prior to its scheduled maturity on September 30, 2006. Should Synerject default in its obligations under the loan arrangements, Orbital may be required to make payments pursuant to the guarantee. If Orbital has insufficient funds at that time to meet that obligation, it would be required to secure additional funding in order to continue its operations. Failure to secure such funding could result in Orbital becoming insolvent. • Our shareholding in Synerject LLC may be reduced. Synerject was restructured and refinanced during fiscal year 2003. In January 2003, new financing arrangements were put in place for Synerject until September 30, 2006. As part of the restructure, in April 2003, Synerject acquired, by way of capital contributions from each joint venturer, the operations of Orbital’s marine and recreation system sales business and Siemens VDO’s non-automotive systems business. The actual performance of each of these contributed businesses in the period to June 30, 2006, compared to the planned performances, will be reviewed to determine the adjustment (if any) to the percentage shareholdings of Orbital and Siemens VDO in Synerject. The maximum change in shareholdings as a result of the above recalculation is 10% ie. ownership percentages of 60:40. There is an option for the joint venturer who has the minority shareholding as a result of the recalculation to reinstate the 50:50 ownership structure by purchasing shares from the other joint venturer at a price of US$400,000 for each 1% of Synerject or contributing $800,000 to the joint venture for each 1%. - 9 - Table of Contents 