ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following sets forth risk factors known to us that may materially adversely affect the Company and its results of operations or our shareholders’ investment. We could face liquidity and working capital constraints if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to service our obligations, we could face liquidity and working capital constraints, which could adversely impact our future operations and growth. If we need to raise additional funds to support our operations, we may not be able to do so on favorable terms, or at all. Without such funding, we may need to modify or abandon our growth strategy or eliminate product offerings, any of which could negatively impact our financial position. Failure to comply with a financial covenant in our credit facility could result in our inability to borrow additional funds We have incurred substantial indebtedness to fund our business operations. Our Senior Credit Facility requires us to maintain compliance with a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio covenant. Our ability to meet this covenant in the future can be affected by events beyond our control, and therefore we may be unable to meet this covenant. If our actual results deviate significantly from our projections, we may not be in compliance with the covenant or the lenders could impose additional reserves within their reasonable credit judgment, and we might not be allowed to borrow under the Senior Credit Facility or may be required to 7 Table of Contents accelerate repayment. If we were not able to borrow under our Senior Credit Facility, we would be required to develop an alternative source of liquidity, or to sell additional securities which would result in dilution to existing shareholders. Without a source of financing, we could experience cash flow difficulties and be forced to curtail our then current operations. Due to the weakness in the credit markets, we may not be able to obtain replacement financing or, if we can obtain such refinancing, there can be no assurance that the terms of a new facility would be on terms comparable to the current Senior Credit Facility. If we are unable to obtain adequate replacement financing, our operations and financial condition would be materially adversely impacted and we would be forced to seek an alternative source of liquidity, such as by selling additional securities, to continue operations, or to limit our operations. We may have problems raising money needed in the future, which could adversely impact operations or existing stockholders Our growth strategy includes selectively opening and operating new Perfumania retail locations and increasing the average retail sales per store. We may need to obtain funding to achieve our growth strategy. Additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, which would adversely affect our operations. In order to obtain additional liquidity, we might issue additional common stock which could dilute our existing shareholders’ ownership interest or we may be required to issue securities with greater rights than those currently possessed by holders of our common stock. We may also be required to take other actions, which may lessen the value of our common stock, including borrowing money on terms that are not favorable. The beauty industry is highly competitive and if we cannot effectively compete our business and results of operations will suffer The beauty industry is highly competitive and can change rapidly due to consumer preferences and industry trends. Some of our competitors sell fragrances at discount prices and some are part of large national or regional chains that have substantially greater resources and name recognition than we do. Perfumania’s stores compete on the basis of selling price, customer service, merchandise variety and store location. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, technical, operational, and marketing resources. We may not be able to compete successfully against these competitors in developing our products and services. These factors, as well as demographic trends, economic conditions and discount pricing strategies by competitors, could result in increased competition and could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, operating cash flow, and many other aspects of our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The current economy is depressing consumer spending patterns, which will adversely affect our business Our business is sensitive to a number of factors that influence the levels of consumer spending, including political and economic conditions such as recessionary environments, the levels of disposable consumer income, consumer debt, interest rates and consumer confidence. The global economic downturn and the related increases in unemployment have significantly reduced consumer confidence and spending and customer traffic. If such conditions persist, consumer spending levels and customer traffic could decline further, which would have an adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. The current economy is reducing our wholesale customers’ ability to pay us, which will adversely affect our business The global economic downturn has reduced the availability of credit for businesses. Some of our customers have also experienced declining financial performance. These conditions affect their ability to pay amounts owed to us on a timely basis or at all. There can be no assurance that government responses to the economic disruptions will increase liquidity and the availability of credit, and our wholesale customers may be unable to borrow funds on acceptable terms. Any economic decline affecting our customers would adversely affect our business and results of operations. If Perfumania cannot successfully manage its growth, our business will be adversely affected We may not be able to sustain growth in revenues. Perfumania’s growth is somewhat dependent upon opening and operating new retail stores on a profitable basis, which in turn is subject to, among other things, securing suitable store sites on satisfactory terms, hiring, training and retaining qualified management and other personnel, having adequate capital resources and successfully integrating new stores into existing operations. Circumstances outside our control could negatively affect these anticipated store openings. Perfumania’s new stores may take up to three years to reach planned operating levels. It is possible that Perfumania’s new stores might not achieve sales and profitability comparable to existing stores, and it is possible that the opening of new locations might adversely affect sales at existing locations. The failure to expand by successfully opening new stores as planned or the failure of a significant number of these stores to perform as planned, could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. 8 Table of Contents The market for real estate is competitive, which could adversely impact our results Our ability to effectively obtain real estate to open new stores depends upon the availability of real estate that meets our criteria, including traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, lease economics, demographics, and other factors, and our ability to negotiate terms that meet our financial targets. In addition, we must be able to effectively renew our existing store leases. Failure to secure real estate locations adequate to meet annual targets, as well as effectively managing the profitability of our existing stores, could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. If we are unable to effectively manage the inventory we sell on consignment, we will not achieve our expected results Our business includes a significant portion of consigned sales, and our revenue recognition policy defers recognition of revenue for this type of sales. Consignment sales remain in inventory until the products are sold to end users and, if not sold, the inventory may be returned to us upon termination of the consignment relationships. The turnover frequency of our inventory on consignment is critical to generating regular cash flow in amounts necessary to keep financing costs to targeted levels and to purchase additional inventory. If this turnover is not sufficiently frequent, our financing costs may exceed targeted levels and we may be unable to generate regular cash flow in amounts necessary to purchase additional inventory to meet the demand for other products. In addition, slow inventory turnover may force us to reduce prices and accept lower margins to sell consigned products. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could lead to fluctuations in our stock price We have historically experienced and expect to continue experiencing higher sales in the fourth fiscal quarter than in any of the first three fiscal quarters. Purchases of fragrances as gift items increase during the holiday season, which results in significantly higher fourth fiscal quarter retail sales. Sales levels of new and existing stores are affected by a variety of factors, including the retail sales environment, the level of competition, the effect of marketing and promotional programs, acceptance of new product introductions, adverse weather conditions, general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. Our quarterly results may also vary as a result of the timing of new store openings and store closings, net sales contributed by new stores and fluctuations in comparable sales of existing stores. If our quarterly operating results are below expectations, our stock price might decline. We may experience shortages of the merchandise we need because we do not have long-term agreements with suppliers Our success depends to a large degree on our ability to provide an extensive assortment of brand name and designer fragrances. We have no long-term purchase contracts or other contractual assurance of continued supply, pricing or access to new products. If we are unable to obtain merchandise from one or more key suppliers on a timely basis or acceptable terms, or if there is a material change in our ability to obtain necessary merchandise, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We could be subject to litigation because of the merchandising aspect of our business Some of the merchandise we purchase from suppliers might be manufactured by entities that are not the owners of the trademarks or copyrights for the merchandise. The owner of a particular trademark or copyright may challenge us to demonstrate that the specific merchandise was produced and sold with the proper authority, and if we are unable to demonstrate this, we could, among other things, be restricted from reselling the particular merchandise or be subjected to other liabilities. This type of restriction could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our stock price volatility could result in litigation, substantial cost, and diversion of management’s attention The price of our common stock has been and likely will continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of events, such as: • quarterly variations in operating results; • acquisitions, capital commitments or strategic alliances by us or our competitors; • legal and regulatory matters that are applicable to our business; • the operating and stock price performances of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; • news reports relating to trends in our markets; and • the amount of shares constituting our public float. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the performance of specific companies. The broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Our stock price volatility could result in litigation, including class action lawsuits, which would require substantial monetary cost to defend, as well as the diversion of management attention from day-to-day activities which could negatively affect operating performance. Such litigation could also have a negative impact on the price of our common stock due to the uncertainty and negative publicity associated with litigation. 9 Table of Contents Future growth may place strains on our managerial, operational and financial resources If we grow as we anticipate, a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources may occur. Future growth or increase in the number of our strategic relationships could strain our managerial, operational and financial resources, inhibiting our ability to achieve the execution necessary to successfully implement our business plan. The loss of or disruption in our distribution facility could have a material adverse effect on our business We currently have one distribution facility located in Bellport, New York. In addition we use third-party fulfillment centers in New York and New Jersey. The loss of, or damage to any of these facilities, as well as the inventory stored therein, could adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Expanding our business through acquisitions and investments in other businesses and technologies presents special risks that may disrupt our business We may expand through the acquisition of and investment in other businesses. Acquisitions involve a number of special problems, including: • difficulty integrating acquired technologies, operations, and personnel with our existing business; • diversion of management’s attention in connection with both negotiating the acquisitions and integrating the assets; • the need for additional financing; • strain on managerial, operational and financial resources as management tries to oversee larger operations; and • exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies. We may not be able to successfully address these problems. Moreover, our future operating results will depend to a significant degree on our ability to successfully manage growth or integrate acquisitions. Current economic conditions and the global financial crisis may have an impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict The global economy has experienced a significant contraction, with an almost unprecedented lack of availability of business and consumer credit. This decrease and any future decrease in economic activity in the United States or in other regions of the world in which we do business could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Continued and potentially increased volatility, instability and economic weakness and a resulting decrease in discretionary consumer and business spending may result in a reduction in our revenues. We currently cannot predict the extent to which our revenues may be impacted. In addition, our ability to make acquisitions depends, in part, on the availability of equity and debt financing. The credit markets and the general economy have experienced a period of large scale turmoil and upheaval. As a result, equity and debt financing from the capital markets may not be available to us on acceptable terms and may not be available for some time. This may limit our ability to pursue an acquisition-based strategy. The Company maintains operating bank accounts at a number of financial institutions in the United States. Some of the Company’s cash balances in the United States are in excess of the government’s Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limits. The FDIC insures deposits in most banks and savings associations located in the United States. We could incur substantial losses if the underlying financial institutions fail or are otherwise unable to return our deposits. Any weakness in internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and lead to a stock price decline We are required to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, as well as effective disclosure controls and procedures, complying with SEC rules and covering all our business operations. Any failure to have effective internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures covering our business could cause investors to lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, limit our ability to raise financing or lead to regulatory sanctions, any of which could result in a material adverse effect on our business or a decline in the market price of our common stock. 10 Table of Contents If we fail to protect the security of personal information about our retail customers, our reputation could suffer and we could suffer financial harm We receive and store personal information about the customers of our retail businesses. The regulatory environment for information security is increasingly demanding, and our customers have a high expectation that we will protect their personal information. If we experience a data security breach, we could be exposed to costly government enforcement actions and private litigation. In addition, this could damage our reputation and our customers could lose confidence in us, which could cause them to stop using credit cards to purchase our products or stop shopping at our stores altogether. Such events could lead to lost future sales, fines or lawsuits, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Control of our management and policies is with our principal shareholders, who could take actions that are not in the best interest of the other shareholders Stephen and Glenn Nussdorf beneficially own an aggregate of approximately 61.6% of our outstanding common stock, assuming conversion of their convertible note and exercise of the Warrants they received in the Merger. Including shares and Warrants owned by their sister, Arlene Nussdorf, the Nussdorfs beneficially own approximately 79.0% of our capital stock in aggregate. As a result, they are able to direct our corporate policies and can act unilaterally to approve most actions requiring shareholder approval under law or our governing documents. The Nussdorfs’ collective stock ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing policies or actions deemed desirable by our Board of Directors, such as a business combination that might be in the interests of our other shareholders, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Conversely, such ownership may cause us to implement policies that are not in the best interests of our other shareholders. We also have a material amount of indebtedness to the Nussdorfs and their affiliates. As significant creditors, the Nussdorfs may refuse consent to actions our Board may consider necessary or may be able to demand repayment of the debt in the event of default. We are a “controlled corporation” under the NASDAQ rules. Accordingly, we are not required to have a board of directors with a majority of independent directors, to have executive compensation determined by an independent compensation committee, or to have our directors nominated by a majority of the independent directors. This could increase the extent to which the principal shareholders are able to control our operations to the possible detriment of the other shareholders. Furthermore, we have agreed that, in certain circumstances, we will register with the SEC the resale of the shares of our common stock that the former Model Reorg shareholders, including the Nussdorfs, received in the Merger. The former Model Reorg shareholders may require that, in the event of any marketing limitation on the number of shares included in an applicable registration statement, their shares be registered on a pro rata basis with shares being registered for parties that have obtained registration rights in connection with providing financing to us. This may limit our ability to obtain financing in the future. If we cannot successfully integrate E Com and Model Reorg businesses, our business and growth will be adversely impacted While we have substantially completed the integration of the Model Reorg and E Com operations, there can be no assurance that anticipated synergies will be achieved. Any failure or delay in completing the integration or achieving such synergies could have a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows of the combined company. The absence of contracts with customers or suppliers could result in loss of key customers or suppliers, which would have a material adverse effect on our business We do not have long-term or exclusive contracts with our customers or with the suppliers of distributed brands. Suppliers of distributed brands generally may choose to reduce or eliminate the volume of their products we distribute, including supplying products to our wholesale customers directly or through another distributor. Our wholesale customers are generally able to cancel orders or delay the delivery of products on short notice. The loss of any key suppliers or customers, or a change in our relationship with any of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 11 Table of Contents 