Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K and the exhibits hereto, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. This section contains forward-looking statements. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements set forth immediately prior to the beginning of Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business We are subject to extensive medical device regulation which may impede or hinder the approval process for our products and, in some cases, may not ultimately result in approval or may result in the recall or seizure of previously approved products. Our products, development activities and manufacturing processes are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the FDC Act), by comparable agencies in foreign countries, and by other regulatory agencies and governing bodies. Under the FDC Act, medical devices must receive FDA clearance or approval before they can be commercially marketed in the U.S. In addition, most major markets for medical devices outside the U.S. require clearance, approval or compliance with certain standards before a product can be commercially marketed. The process of obtaining marketing approval or clearance from the FDA for new products, or with respect to enhancements or modifications to existing products, could: § take a significant period of time; § require the expenditure of substantial resources; § involve rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing; § require changes to the products; and § result in limitations on the indicated uses of the products. 14 Even after products have received marketing approval or clearance, product approvals and clearances by the FDA can be withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial approval. There can be no assurance that we will receive the required clearances from the FDA for new products or modifications to existing products on a timely basis or that any FDA approval will not be subsequently withdrawn. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturer could result in fines, delays or suspensions of regulatory clearances, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and/or criminal prosecution. The failure to receive product approval clearance on a timely basis, suspensions of regulatory clearances, seizures or recalls of products or the withdrawal of product approval by the FDA could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may not meet regulatory quality standards applicable to our manufacturing and quality processes, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. As a device manufacturer, w are required to register with the FDA and are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation (QSR) requirements, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation procedures. In addition, the federal Medical Device Reporting regulations require us to provide information to the FDA whenever there is evidence that reasonably suggests that a device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or, if a malfunction were to occur, could cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is rigorously monitored through periodic inspections by the FDA. In the European Community, we are required to maintain certain ISO certifications in order to sell our products and must undergo periodic inspections by notified bodies to obtain and maintain these certifications. Future intellectual property litigation could be costly and disruptive to us. We operate in an industry that is susceptible to significant intellectual property litigation and, in recent years, it has been common for companies in the medical device field to aggressively challenge the patent rights of other companies in order to prevent the marketing of new devices. Intellectual property litigation is expensive, complex and lengthy and its outcome is difficult to predict. Future patent litigation may result in significant royalty or other payments or injunctions that can prevent the sale of products and may significantly divert the attention of our technical and management personnel. In the event that our right to market any of our products is successfully challenged, and if we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may not be able effectively to protect our intellectual property rights which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Patents and other proprietary rights are and will be essential to our business, and our ability to compete effectively with other companies will be dependent upon the proprietary nature of our technologies. We rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations, strategic alliances and licensing opportunities to develop, maintain and strengthen our competitive position. We pursue a policy of generally obtaining patent protection in both the U.S. and abroad for patentable subject matter in our proprietary devices and also attempt to review third-party patents and patent applications to the extent publicly available to develop an effective patent strategy, avoid infringement of third-party patents, identify licensing opportunities and monitor the patent claims of others. We currently own numerous U.S. and foreign patents. We also are party to various license agreements pursuant to which patent rights have been obtained or granted in consideration for cash or royalty payments. No assurance can be made that any pending or future patent applications will result in issued patents, that any current or future patents issued to, or licensed by, us will not be challenged or circumvented by our competitors, or that our patents will not be found invalid. In addition, we may have to take legal action in the future to protect our patents, trade secrets or know-how or to assert them against claimed infringement by others. Any legal action of that type could be costly and time consuming to us and no assurances can be made that any lawsuit will be successful. 15 The invalidation of key patents or proprietary rights that we own, or an unsuccessful outcome in lawsuits to protect our intellectual property, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. Future product liability claims and other litigation, including private securities litigation and shareholder derivative suits, may adversely affect our business, reputation and ability to attract and retain customers. The design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices of the types that we produce entail and inherent risk of product liability claims. A number of factors could results in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient with respect to these or other products that we manufacture or sell, including component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information. These factors could result in product liability claims, a recall of one or more of our products or a safety alert relating to one or more of our products. Product liability claims may be brought by individuals or by groups seeking to represent a class. We may not be successful in our strategic initiatives to become primarily a medical device company. Our strategic initiatives intend to further expand our ability to offer customers effective, quality medical devices that satisfy their needs, as well as focus the Company on our medical device platform. If we are unsuccessful in our strategic initiatives, we may be unable to continue to grow our business significantly or may record asset impairment charges in the future. Our future growth is dependent upon the development of new products, which requires significant research and development, clinical trials and regulatory approvals, all of which are very expensive and time-consuming and may not result in a commercially viable product. In order to develop new products and improve current product offerings, we focus our research and development programs largely on the development of next-generation and novel technology offerings across multiple programs and opportunities. We expect to launch our bone cutter product for laminectomies during the first calendar quarter 2007. We currently are performing clinicals on the product. We are also performing clinicals for kidney cancer treatment in Europe. Further, we anticipate continuing our increased focus and spending on areas such as HIFU technologies for the kidney, liver and breast. However, given their early stage of development, there can be no assurance that these and other technologies will achieve technological feasibility, obtain regulatory approval or gain market acceptance. A delay in the development or approval of these technologies or our decision to reduce funding of these projects may adversely impact the contribution of these technologies to our future growth. As a part of the regulatory process of obtaining marketing clearance from the FDA for new products, we conduct and participate in numerous clinical trials with a variety of study designs, patient populations and trial endpoints. Unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future clinical trials conducted by us, by our competitors or by third parties, or the market’s perception of this clinical data, may adversely impact our ability to obtain product approvals from the FDA, our position in, and share of, the markets in which we participate and our business, financial condition, results of operations or future prospects. We face intense competition and may not be able to keep pace with the rapid technological changes in the medical devices industry, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 16 The medical device market is highly competitive. We encounter significant competition across our product lines and in each market in which our products are sold from various medical device companies, some of which may have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Additionally, the medical device market is characterized by extensive research and development, and rapid technological change. Developments by other companies of new or improved products, processes or technologies, in particular in the cancer treatment market, may make our products or proposed products obsolete or less competitive and may negatively impact our revenues. We are required to devote continued efforts and financial resources to develop or acquire scientifically advanced technologies and products, apply our technologies cost-effectively across product lines and markets, attract and retain skilled development personnel, obtain patent and other protection for our technologies and products, obtain required regulatory and reimbursement approvals and successfully manufacture and market our products. Failure to develop new products or enhance existing products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Because we derive a significant amount of our revenues from international operations and a significant percentage of our growth is expected to come from international operations, changes in international economic or regulatory conditions could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Sales outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 37% of our net sales in Fiscal 2006. Additionally, a significant percentage of our future growth is expected to come from international operations. As a result, our profitability from our international operations may be limited by risks and uncertainties related to economic conditions in these regions, foreign currency fluctuations, regulatory and reimbursement approvals, competitive offerings, infrastructure development, rights to intellectual property and our ability to implement our overall business strategy. Further, international markets are also being affected by economic pressure to contain reimbursement levels and healthcare costs. The trend in countries around the world, including Japan, toward more stringent regulatory requirements for product clearance, changing reimbursement models and more rigorous inspection and enforcement activities has generally caused or may cause medical device manufacturers to experience more uncertainty, delay, risk and expense. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could lead to demands for price concessions or the exclusion of some suppliers from certain of our significant market segments, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The cost of healthcare has risen significantly over the past decade and numerous initiatives and reforms initiated by legislators, regulators and third-party payers to curb these costs have resulted in a consolidation trend in the healthcare industry, including hospitals. This in turn has resulted in greater pricing pressures and the exclusion of certain suppliers from important market segments as group purchasing organizations, independent delivery networks and large single accounts continue to consolidate purchasing decisions for some of our hospital customers. We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies and societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide healthcare industry, resulting in further business consolidations and alliances among our customers and competitors, which may reduce competition, exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products and may adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. Item 