ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSYou should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our securities. We organize our risks into the following categories:•Risks Relating to Our Business; and•Risks Relating to an Investment in Our Common Stock or Debt.Risks Relating to Our BusinessWe have experienced losses from operations and may experience future losses from operations.For the year ended September 30, 2013, we had a net loss of $22.1 million. Due to general economic conditions and slowdowns in purchases of networking equipment, it continues to be difficult for us to predict the purchasing activities of our customers. We expect that our operating results will fluctuate substantially in the future and we may experience future losses from operations. In order to achieve and sustain profitability, we must achieve a combination of substantial revenue growth and/or a reduction in operating expenses.If we are unable to accurately predict our future sales and to appropriately budget for our expenses, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected.The rapidly changing nature of the markets in which we sell our products limit our ability to accurately forecast quarterly and annual sales. Our sales cycle is often lengthy, particularly for larger transactions. As a result, we devote substantial time and effort and incur significant upfront expense in our sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will result in a customer purchase. Therefore, it is often difficult to predict when, or even if, we will make a sale with a potential customer. Additionally, we make investment decisions and budget our expense levels based primarily on sales forecasts. Because a substantial portion of our expenses are fixed in the short term or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any shortfall of sales. Our operating results will be adversely affected if revenues fall below our expectations in a particular quarter, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly.Our quarterly revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate and be difficult to predict in the future, and such fluctuations could adversely affect our stock price.Our quarterly revenues and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and we believe they may continue to do so. As a result, you should not rely on the results of any one quarter or fiscal period as an indication of future performance and period-to-period comparisons of our revenues and operating results may not be meaningful.Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including, among others, those described elsewhere in this section and those listed below, many of which are outside of our control.•Fluctuations in demand for network infrastructure equipment;•The timing of receipt, reduction or cancellation of significant orders and shipments;•Fluctuations in the levels of component inventories held by our customers and distribution partners;•The gain or loss of significant customers;•Significant changes in the type and mix of products being sold;•Increased competition from current and future competitors;•Market acceptance of our products and our customers products;•Our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis;•The availability and cost of products from our suppliers;18Table of Contents•Reductions in the selling prices of our products;•Design changes to our products made by our customers;•New product and technology introductions by competitors;•Failure by third-party foundries and other subcontractors to manufacture, assemble, test and ship products on time;•Changes in third-party foundries’ and other subcontractors’ manufacturing capacity, utilization of their capacity and manufacturing yields;•Intellectual property disputes; and•The timing and extent of product development costs.Our operating results may be adversely impacted by economic conditions and uncertainties in the markets we address, including the cyclical nature of and volatility in the semiconductor industry. As a result, the market price of our common stock may decline.We operate primarily in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards. From time-to-time, the semiconductor industry has experienced significant and extended downturns. These downturns are characterized by decreases in product demand, excess customer inventories and accelerated erosion of prices. These factors could cause substantial fluctuations in our revenues and in our results of operations. Any downturns in the semiconductor industry may be severe and prolonged and any failure of the industry or wired and wireless communications markets to fully recover from downturns could seriously impact our revenues and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The semiconductor industry also periodically experiences increased demand and production capacity constraints which may affect our ability to manufacture and ship products. Accordingly, our operating results may vary significantly as a result of the general conditions in the semiconductor industry, which could cause large fluctuations in our stock price.The lengthy life cycle of our products as well as the short life cycles of some of the end products for which our products are designed may leave us with obsolete or excess inventories, which could have an adverse impact on our operating profit and net income results.Many of our products have very long life cycles, often exceeding 10 years or more. These life cycles may be longer than what is typically supported by wafer and/or assembly manufacturers. Accordingly, we are sometimes subjected to end-of-life notices on certain materials and/or products provided by these manufacturers. This longer life cycle may impact our ability to continue to support certain products, forcing us to cease offering these products if we cannot obtain a replacement source of material. This longer life cycle may impact revenues and/or require us to incur additional costs to obtain alternative sources for these materials.Further, the life cycles of some of our products depend heavily upon the life cycles of the end products for which our products are designed. Products with short life cycles require us to manage production and inventory levels closely. Write-offs of obsolete or excess inventories resulting from unanticipated changes in the estimated total demand for our products and/or the estimated life cycles of the end products for which our products are designed may negatively affect our operating profit and net income results.We have limited control over the indirect channels of distribution we utilize, which makes it difficult to accurately forecast orders and could result in the loss of certain sales opportunities.A portion of our sales is realized through independent resellers and distributors that are not under our control. For the year ended September 30, 2013, 52.7% of our product revenues were through these entities. These independent sales organizations generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could reduce their sales efforts applied to our products or terminate their representation of us. Our revenues could be adversely affected if our relationships with resellers or distributors were to deteriorate or if the financial condition of one or more significant resellers or distributors were to decline.19Table of ContentsIn addition, as our business grows, there may be an increased reliance on indirect channels of distribution. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining or expanding these indirect channels of distribution. This uncertainty could result in the loss of certain sales opportunities. Furthermore, our reliance on indirect channels of distribution may reduce visibility with respect to future business opportunities, thereby making it more difficult to accurately forecast orders.Further, we generally use the sell-through accounting policy model which recognizes revenue only upon shipment of the merchandise from our distributor to the final customer. Because we use the sell-through methodology, we may have variability in our revenue from quarter-to-quarter as customers have substantial flexibility to reschedule backlog with most of our distribution partners as part of their terms and conditions of sale.Order or shipment cancellations or deferrals could cause reductions in our revenues or unplanned inventory growth resulting in excess inventory, which may adversely affect our operating results.We sell, and expect to continue selling, a significant number of products pursuant to purchase orders that customers may cancel or defer on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. If a customer cancels or defers product shipments or refuses to accept shipped products, we may incur unanticipated reductions or delays in recognizing revenues and be required to hold excess inventory. Holding excess inventory could reduce our profit margins by reducing sales prices or requiring inventory write-downs or write-offs for excess or obsolete inventory.Our international sales and operations subject us to risks that could adversely affect our revenues and operating results.Sales to customers located outside the United States account for a significant percentage of our revenues. International sales constituted 72.6%, 65.2% and 63.3% of our net revenue in fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Development and customer support operations located outside the United States have historically accounted for a significant percentage of our operating expenses, and we anticipate that such operations will continue to account for a significant percentage of our expenses. International sales and operations involve a variety of risks and uncertainties, including risks related to:•Reliance on strategic alliance partners;•Compliance with changing foreign regulatory requirements and tax laws;•Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;•Reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;•Longer payment cycles to collect accounts receivable in some countries;•Political and economic instability and potential hostilities and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships;•Economic downturns in international markets and disruptions in capital and trading markets;•Wage inflation;•Currency risks;•Existing or future environmental laws and regulations; •Cultural differences in the conduct of business; •Natural disasters, acts of terrorism and war;•Changing restrictions imposed by United States export laws, including increasing restrictions based on security concerns; and•Competition from companies based in North America that have established significant international operations.Failure to successfully address these risks and uncertainties could adversely affect our international sales and operations, which could in turn have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.20Table of ContentsIf we are unable to develop and introduce new products successfully, keep abreast of the rapid technological changes in our market or achieve market acceptance of our new products, our revenues and operating results will be adversely affected.Our future success will depend on our ability to develop and timely introduce new, high-performance ICs and IC systems for existing and new markets and our success in developing and delivering these new products will depend on various factors, including our ability to:•Accurately predict market requirements, changes in technology and evolving industry standards; •Accurately define new products;•Expand our software capabilities in order to provide customers with complete product solutions;•Complete and introduce new products in a cost-effective and timely manner; •Qualify and obtain industry interoperability certification of our products and our customers products into which our products will be incorporated, including the related software content included in our products or with which our products integrate; •Work with our wafer foundry, assembly, and probe and test subcontractors to achieve high manufacturing yields; •Convince leading communications equipment manufacturers to select these products; and •Gain market acceptance of our products and our customers’ products.We may not have sufficient resources to make the substantial investment in R&D in order to develop and bring to market new and enhanced products or to improve and further develop the software content included in our products or their compatibility with systems in which our products integrate. Furthermore, we are required to continually evaluate expenditures for planned product development and to choose among alternative technologies based on our expectations of future market growth. We may be unable to timely develop and introduce new or enhanced products, our products may not satisfy customer requirements or achieve market acceptance, or we may be unable to anticipate new industry standards and technological changes. We also may not be able to respond successfully to new product announcements and introductions by competitors. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing these new or other future products. Our inability to develop and introduce new products successfully and in a timely manner could negatively affect our business and results of operations.Demand for our products is dependent on demand for our customers’ products.Our success will also depend on the ability of our customers to successfully develop new products and enhance existing products for the Carrier and Enterprise networking markets. These markets may not develop in the manner or in the time periods that our customers anticipate. If they do not, or if our customers’ products do not gain widespread acceptance in these markets, our revenues and operating results may be materially and adversely affected.Failure to accurately forecast market and customer demand for our products, or to quickly adjust to forecast changes, could adversely affect our business and financial results or operating efficiencies.Product introductions as well as plans for future products are based on our expectations regarding market demand and direction. If our expectations regarding market demand and direction are incorrect, the rate of development or acceptance of our current and next-generation solutions do not meet market demand and customer expectation, the sales of our legacy or current Carrier and Enterprise networking products decline more rapidly than we anticipate, or if the rate of decline continues to exceed the rate of growth of our new products, our revenues and operating results could be materially and adversely affected.Our ability to accurately forecast customer demand may also be impaired by the delays inherent in our lengthy sales cycle. After we have developed and delivered a product to a customer, our customers need time to test, evaluate and adopt our products and additional time to begin production of the equipment that incorporates our products. Due to this lengthy cycle, we may experience significant delays from the time we increase our operating expenses and make investments in inventory 21Table of Contentsuntil the time that we generate revenues from these products. It is possible that we may never generate any revenues from these products after incurring such expenditures. Even if a customer selects our product to incorporate into their equipment or devices, we have no assurance that the customer will ultimately bring our product to market or that such effort by our customer will be successful. If we incur significant research and development expenses, marketing expenses and investments in inventory in the future that we are not able to recover, and our operating results could be adversely affected.We are dependent on a small number of customers in a few industries for a significant amount of revenues. A decrease in sales to or the loss of one or more significant customers could adversely impact our revenues and results of operations.We focus our sales efforts on a small number of customers in the Carrier and Enterprise networking markets that require high-performance ICs. We intend to continue doing so in the future. Some of these customers are also our competitors. If any of our major customers were to delay orders of our products or stop buying our products, our business and financial condition would be severely affected. Additionally, if any of our customers are impacted by consolidation, experience financial difficulty, or are impacted by adverse economic conditions that would delay networking infrastructure upgrades, build-outs or new installations, we could experience increased competition for our products and downward pressure on the pricing of our products.We depend on third-party wafer foundries and other suppliers and subcontract manufacturers to manufacture and test substantially all of our current products and any delays in materials or packaging, availability of manufacturing capacity, or failure to meet quality control requirements could have material adverse effects on our customer relationships, revenues and cash flows.Wafer fabrication for our products is outsourced to third-party silicon wafer foundry subcontractors, primarily TSMC and, to a lesser extent, GlobalFoundries, IBM, and TowerJazz Semiconductor. We depend on these third-party wafer foundries to allocate a portion of their manufacturing capacity sufficient to meet our needs and to produce wafers of acceptable quality in a timely manner. There are significant risks associated with our reliance on third-party foundries, including:•Lack of assured wafer supply, the potential for wafer shortages and possible increases in wafer prices;•Limited control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, product costs, and product quality; and•Unavailability of, or delays in, obtaining access to key process technologies.These risks and other risks associated with our reliance on third-party wafer foundries could materially and adversely affect our revenues, cash flows, operating results, and relationships with our customers.Our third-party wafer foundries fabricate products for other companies and, in certain cases, manufacture products of their own design. Historically, there have been periods in which there has been a worldwide shortage of wafer foundry capacity for the production of high-performance ICs such as ours. Instead of having long-term agreements with any of our third-party foundries, we subcontract our manufacturing requirements on a purchase order basis. As a result, it is possible that the capacity we may need in the future may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all.A significant portion of the manufacturing operations required for our products are located in Asia. These areas are subject to natural disasters including earthquakes, tsunamis and floods such as the earthquake and tsunami that occurred in Japan and the floods that occurred in Thailand that disrupted the global supply chain for components manufactured in those countries. A significant natural disaster or other catastrophic event could significantly disrupt our foundries’ production capabilities and could result in our experiencing a significant delay in delivery or substantial shortage of wafers and possibly in higher wafer prices. Any supply disruption or business interruption could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.If any of our foundries do not have adequate available capacity for us for any reason, we may encounter supply delays or disruptions, and we may need to qualify an alternative foundry. Our current foundries need to have new manufacturing processes qualified if there is a disruption in an existing process. We typically require several months to qualify a new foundry or process before we can begin shipping products from the new foundry. If we cannot accomplish this qualification in a timely manner, we may experience a significant interruption in supply of the affected products.In addition to third-party wafer foundries, we also depend on third-party subcontractors in Asia and the United States for the assembly, wafer probe and package testing of our products. As with the wafer foundries, any difficulty in obtaining parts or 22Table of Contentsservices from these subcontractors could affect our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to customers, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our customer relationships, revenues and operating results.These third-party subcontractors purchase materials used in the assembly process based on our forecast. In the event we fail to meet our obligations by placing purchase orders that are inconsistent with our forecast, we may be required to pay for material forecasted, but not ordered. This obligation may have an adverse effect on operating results and cash flows.As with wafer fabrication, worldwide assembly and testing capacity for our products is limited, and we are dependent on our suppliers to provide enough capacity in the correct mix to address all of our requirements. The master service agreements with our assembly subcontractors have provisions for the subcontractors to maintain inventory stocks based on forecasts, but these agreements do not include any guaranteed capacity provisions. As a result, it is possible that the capacity we will need in the future may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, and we could experience shortages or assembly problems in the future. As part of our test outsourcing agreement, we consigned testing equipment to our test subcontractor. The availability of assembly and test services from these subcontractors could be materially and adversely affected in the event a subcontractor experiences financial difficulties or suffers any damage to their facilities.If we do not achieve satisfactory manufacturing yields or quality, our business will be harmed because of increases in our business expenses.The fabrication of ICs is a highly complex and technically demanding process. Defects in designs, problems associated with transitions to newer manufacturing processes, and the inadvertent use of defective or contaminated materials can result in unacceptable manufacturing yields and performance. These problems are frequently difficult to detect in the early stages of the production process and can be time-consuming and expensive to correct once detected. Even though we procure all of our wafers from third-party foundries, we may be responsible for low yields when these wafers are tested against our quality control standards. In addition, defects in our existing or new products may require us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, and could divert the attention of our engineering personnel away from the development of new products.In the past, we have experienced difficulties in achieving acceptable probe and/or final test yields on some of our products, particularly with new products, which frequently involve new manufacturing processes and smaller geometry features than previous generations. Decreased yields can result in higher unit costs, shipment delays and increased expenses associated with resolving yield problems. Because we also estimate yields to value work-in-process inventory, yields below our estimates may require us to increase the value of inventory and related reserves reflected on our financial statements. Poor manufacturing yields, defects or other performance problems with our products could adversely affect our ability to provide competitively priced products and our operating results.Defects, errors, or failures in our products could result in higher costs than we expect and could harm our reputation and adversely affect our revenues and level of customer satisfaction.Due to the highly complex nature of our products, on occasion an undetected defect, error, or failure may occur when one of our products is deployed in the field. The occurrence of defects, errors, or failures in our products could result in cancellation of orders, product returns, increased warranty expense, and the loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our IC solutions. Our customers could, in turn, bring legal actions against us, resulting in the diversion of our resources, legal expenses and judgments, fines or other penalties, or losses. Any of these occurrences could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.We face significant emerging and existing competition and, therefore, may not be able to maintain our market share or may be negatively impacted by competitive pricing practices.The markets for our products are intensely competitive and subject to rapid technological advancement in design technology, wafer manufacturing techniques and alternative networking technologies. Our competitors have increasingly frequent opportunities to supplant our products in next-generation systems because of shortened product life and design cycles in many of our customers’ products. Our customers may substitute use of our products in their next-generation equipment with those of current or future competitors. Our customers may choose to internally design and develop products for themselves.In the communications market, which includes our Carrier and Enterprise network markets, competitors include Applied Micro Circuit, Broadcom, Cortina Systems, Marvell Technology Group, and PMC-Sierra. In the signal integrity market, our competitors include Maxim Integrated Products, Semtech, and Texas Instruments. Larger competitors in our market have acquired both mature and early stage companies with advanced technologies. These acquisitions could enhance the ability of larger competitors to obtain new business that we might have otherwise won. In addition, we are aware of smaller privately-23Table of Contentsheld companies that focus on specific portions of our range of products. Over the next few years, we expect additional competitors, some of which may have greater financial and other resources than we have, to enter the market with new products. These companies, individually and collectively, represent future competition during the design stage and in subsequent product sales.We must keep pace with rapid technological change and evolving industry standards in order to grow our revenues and our business.We sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological changes in product technologies, process technologies and software, including evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles, and increasing demand for higher levels of integration, smaller process geometries, and increasing levels of software content. We believe that our success, to a large extent, depends on our ability to adapt to these changes, to continue to improve our product technologies, and to develop new products and technologies to maintain our competitive position. Our failure to accomplish any of these objectives could have a negative impact on our business and financial results. If new industry standards emerge, our products or our customers’ products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could lose market share. We may also have to incur substantial unanticipated costs to comply with these new standards.Development costs for new product technologies continue to increase. We may incur substantially higher research and development costs for next-generation products, as these products are typically more complex and must be implemented in more advanced wafer fabrication processes and assembly technologies.Our operating results may be adversely impacted by worldwide political and economic conditions and uncertainties. As a result, the market price of our common stock may decline.Recent general worldwide economic conditions have included slower economic activity, an increase in bankruptcy filings, concerns about inflation and deflation, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions, liquidity concerns in the wired and wireless communications markets, international conflicts, terrorist and military activity, and the impact of natural disasters and public health emergencies. These conditions make it extremely difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and these conditions have caused, and may continue to cause, United States and foreign businesses to slow spending on products such as ours, which delays and lengthens sales cycles. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any slowdown or subsequent recovery in the worldwide economy, the semiconductor industry or the wired and wireless communications markets. If the economy or markets in which we operate do not return to historical levels, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected.Our business is subject to environmental regulations that could increase our operating expenses.We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and country-specific environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, and disposal of toxic, volatile and other hazardous chemicals used in our design process. In some circumstances, these regulations may require us to fund remedial action regardless of fault. Consequently, it is often difficult to estimate the future impact of environmental matters, including the potential liabilities associated with chemicals used in our design process. If we fail to comply with these regulations, we could be subject to fines or be required to suspend or cease our operations. In addition, these regulations may restrict our ability to expand operations at our present locations in the United States and worldwide or require us to incur significant compliance related expenses.Laws and regulations have been enacted in several jurisdictions in which we sell our products, including various European Union (“EU”), member countries. For example, the RoHS directive, an EU regulation, restricts the use of certain hazardous substances, including lead, used in the construction of component parts of electrical and electronic equipment. We believe that our products comply with the RoHS directive; however, if we fail to comply with these regulations in the future we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties. We may incur increased manufacturing costs, and some products may be subject to production delays to comply with future legislation which implements this directive, but we cannot currently estimate the extent of such increased costs or production delays, if any. To the extent that any such cost increases or delays are substantial, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. Also, we are aware that lead times for new, compliant components are longer and that older, non-compliant components are being discontinued at a fast pace. We or our customers may be impacted by shortages if parts that comply with the RoHS directive are not available.Similar legislation may be enacted in other countries or regions where we sell our products. We will need to ensure that we comply with these laws and regulations as they are enacted, and that our subcontractors also comply with these laws and 24Table of Contentsregulations. If we or our subcontractors fail to comply with the legislation, our customers may refuse or be unable to purchase our products, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we have to make significant capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws, or if we are subject to significant expenses in connection with a violation of these laws, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete or maintain market share may be harmed.We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret protections, as well as confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. For example, we enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and business partners, and control access to, and distribution of our proprietary information. As of September 30, 2013, we held 84 United States patents and 19 foreign patents, as well as 22 patent applications pending in the United States and 28 foreign applications pending for various aspects of design and process innovations.However, despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, we cannot assure you that:•Steps we take to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property will be successful;•Any existing or future patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented;•Any pending patent applications or future applications will be approved;•Others will not independently develop similar products or processes to our, or design around our, patents; or•Any of the measures described above will provide meaningful protection.Further, we do not file patent applications on a worldwide basis, meaning we do not have patent protection in some jurisdictions. It may be possible for a third-party, including our licensees, to misappropriate our copyrighted material or trademarks. It is possible that existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented and effective patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in foreign countries. It may be possible for a third-party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our patents in the United States and in other jurisdictions. It is also possible that some of our existing or new licensing relationships will enable other parties to use our intellectual property to compete against us. Legal actions to enforce intellectual property rights tend to be lengthy and expensive and the outcome often is not predictable. As a result, despite our efforts and expenses, we may be unable to prevent others from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property, which could harm our business. In addition, practicality also limits our assertion of intellectual property rights. Patent litigation is expensive and its results are often unpredictable. Assertion of intellectual property rights often results in counterclaims for perceived violations of the defendant’s intellectual property rights and/or antitrust claims. Certain parties, after receipt of an assertion of infringement will cut off all commercial relationships with the party making the assertion, thus making assertions against suppliers, customers, and key business partners risky. If we forgo making such claims, we may run the risk of creating legal and equitable defenses for an infringer.Certain of our software (as well as that of our customers) may be derived from so-called “open source” software that is generally made available to the public by its authors and/or other third parties. Open source software is made available under licenses that impose certain obligations on us in the event we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. These obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to the public, and/or license such derivative works under a particular type of license, rather than the forms of license customarily used to protect our intellectual property. While we believe we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software, in the event that the copyright holder of any open source software were to successfully establish in court that we had not complied with the terms of a license for a particular work, we could be required to release the source code of that work to the public and/or stop distribution of that work if the license is terminated.We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights or demands that we license third-party technology, which could result in significant expense and loss of our proprietary rights.The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. As is common in the industry, from time-to-time, third parties have asserted patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business and have demanded that we license their patents and technology. To 25Table of Contentsdate, we have not believed it necessary to license any of the rights referred to in such claims. We expect, however, that we will continue to receive such claims in the future, and any litigation to determine their validity, regardless of our merit or resolution, could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. We also may be required to defend and indemnify customers against claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, which could result in significant expense. Our recent efforts to license our intellectual property to third-parties may also increase the potential for others to initiate claims against us. We cannot assure that we would prevail in such disputes given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. The resolution or compromise of any litigation or other legal process to enforce such alleged third-party rights, including claims arising through our contractual indemnification of our customers, or claims challenging the validity of our patents, regardless of its merit or resolution, could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. If such litigation were to result in an adverse ruling we could be required to:•Pay substantial damages;•Discontinue the use of infringing technology, including ceasing the manufacture, use or sale of infringing products;•Expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology; •Pay substantial damages to our customers or end users to discontinue use or replace infringing technology with non-infringing technology; or•License technology from the party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms.Litigation resulting in any of the above could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.We are subject to United States Customs and Export Regulations.We are subject to United States Customs and Export Regulations, including United States International Traffic and Arms Regulations and similar laws, which collectively control import, export and sale of technologies by United States companies. Failure to comply with such regulations may result in civil and criminal enforcement, including monetary fines and possible injunctions against shipment of product, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.Risks Relating to an Investment in Our Common Stock or Debt InstrumentsWe have significant debt in the form of our Term A Loan, Term B Loan and 2014 Debentures.As of November 7, 2013, we had outstanding $17.2 million in original principal of our senior term loans (the “Term A Loan” and “Term B Loan”) with certain lenders for which Whitebox VSC, Ltd. serves as agent, and $32.8 million of our 8.0% Convertible Second Lien Debentures Due 2014 (the “2014 Debentures”). Our Term A Loan and Term B Loan bear interest at a fixed rate of 9.0% per annum, payable quarterly in arrears, and have a maturity date of August 31, 2016, and our 2014 Debentures bear interest at a fixed rate of 8.0% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears, and have a maturity date of October 30, 2014. We intend to use our existing cash to repay our 2014 Debentures on or before their maturity in October 2014, which will achieve our objective of reducing our outstanding indebtedness but will also reduce our cash balances. While we believe that our existing sources of liquidity, along with cash expected to be generated from product sales, will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months after repayment of the 2014 Debentures, this ultimately may not be the case. If we incur operating losses and negative cash flows in the future, we may need to further reduce our operating costs or obtain alternate sources of financing, or both. We may need additional capital in the future and may not have access to additional sources of capital on favorable terms or at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity-based or debt securities, such securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock and our stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests.Early repayment of our 2014 Debentures may result in significant interest expense.Our 2014 Debentures mature on October 30, 2014. Although we do not have a contractual right to retire our 2014 Debentures early, we will continue to consider opportunistically repurchasing all or a portion of our 2014 Debentures prior to their scheduled maturity by repurchasing the debentures at a premium to the outstanding principal amount of the debentures. Our 26Table of Contentsrepurchase of 2014 Debentures at a premium will result in increased interest expense in the periods during which the repurchases occur. In November 2013, we repurchased $13.7 million of our 2014 Debentures at a premium of 7.0% resulting in increased interest expense of $1.6 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2014. If the remaining $32.8 million of 2014 Debentures outstanding after the November 2013 repurchase were to be repurchased at a premium of 5.0%, there would be interest expense of $3.3 million.Our operating and financial flexibility is limited by the terms of the agreements governing our Term A and Term B Loans and the indenture governing our 2014 Debentures. The loan agreement governing our Term A Loan and Term B Loan and the indenture governing our 2014 Debentures contain financial and other covenants that may limit our ability to, or prevent us from, taking certain actions that we believe are in the best interests of our business and our stockholders. For example, the loan agreement and the indenture contain covenants that limit our ability, among other things, to:•incur additional indebtedness;•pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders;•repurchase or redeem our stock;•make investments;•grant liens;•make capital expenditures;•enter into transactions with our stockholder and affiliates;•enter into hedging agreements;•sell assets;•maintain less than $8.0 million of unrestricted cash;•allow consolidated revenue for any fiscal quarter to be less than $10.0 million; and•acquire the assets of, or merge or consolidate with, other companies.A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the loan agreement or the indenture or both, in which event our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. If the lenders require immediate repayment, and we do not have sufficient funds to repay them in full, substantially all of our assets secure our obligations under the Term A Loan, Term B Loan and 2014 Debentures, and assets may be sold to pay those obligations, which could severely harm our business.Our stockholders will experience significant dilution in connection with the conversion of our 2014 Debentures and our Term B Loan.As of November 7, 2013, we had outstanding $32.8 million of 2014 Debentures and $9.3 million of Term B Loan, which indebtedness is convertible into shares of our common stock at a price of $4.50 per share and $4.95 per share, respectively. Full conversion of the currently outstanding 2014 Debentures and Term B Loan would result in the issuance of 9,185,606 shares of common stock. The conversion of our 2014 Debentures and Term B Loan could have a significant dilutive impact on the ownership rights of our stockholders.The holders of our 2014 Debentures can convert their debt into common stock and own a significant percentage of our voting securities, which would give these holders significant influence over us and enable them to act in a manner with which other stockholders may disagree or that is not necessarily in the interests of other stockholders.As of November 7, 2013, we had outstanding $32.8 million of 2014 Debentures convertible at a price of $4.50 per share into an aggregate of 7,298,372 shares of our common stock. If all of the 2014 Debentures converted into common stock, those 27Table of Contentsshares would represent 12.7% of our outstanding common stock as of November 7, 2013. Some of the holders of our 2014 Debentures also may hold shares of our common stock. If the holders of our 2014 Debentures convert their debt into common stock, they would own a significant percentage of our voting securities and would have significant influence over all matters submitted to the stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. These security holders may have interests that are different from our other stockholders. For example, the holders of the 2014 Debentures may support proposals and actions with which other stockholders may disagree or which are not in their interests. In addition, their combined ownership of common stock and 2014 Debentures could motivate them to support a sale of Vitesse at a price that is not attractive to many other stockholders. Furthermore, the concentration of ownership could delay or prevent a change in control of Vitesse or otherwise discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of Vitesse, which in turn could reduce the price of our common stock.The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly.The price of our common stock is volatile and may fluctuate significantly. There can be no assurance as to the prices at which our common stock will trade or that an active trading market in our common stock will be sustained in the future. The market price at which our common stock trades may be influenced by many factors, including:•Our operating and financial performance and prospects, including our ability to achieve sustained profitability;•The depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock which can impact, among other things, the volatility of our stock price and the availability of market participants to borrow shares;•Investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate;•The level of research on our Company;•Changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts;•The issuance and sale of additional shares of common stock;•General financial and other market conditions; and•Domestic and international economic conditions.In addition, public stock markets have experienced, and may in the future experience, extreme price and trading volume volatility, particularly in the technology sectors of the market. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to or disproportionately impacted by the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.Provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law will make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us.Our restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain several provisions that would make more difficult an acquisition of control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. Our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions such as:•The ability of our board of directors to issue shares of our preferred stock in one or more series without further authorization of our stockholders;•A prohibition on stockholder action by written consent; and•A requirement that stockholders provide advance notice of any stockholder nominations of directors or any proposal of new business to be considered at any meeting of stockholders.In addition to the provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally provides that a corporation shall not engage in any business combination with any interested stockholder during the three-year period following the time that such stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless a majority of the directors then in office approves either the business combination or the transaction that results in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder or specified stockholder approval requirements are met.28Table of ContentsOur ability to use our net operating losses (“NOLs”) and other tax attributes to offset future taxable income is limited and could be limited further by an ownership change and/or decisions by California and other states to suspend the use of NOLs.We have significant NOLs and R&D tax credits available to offset our future United States federal and state taxable income. Our ability to utilize our NOLs and other tax attributes are subject to significant limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (and applicable state law) resulting from ownership changes and may in the future be subject to additional limitations under Section 382 if we undergo further ownership changes. Section 382 imposes an annual limitation (based upon our value at the time of the ownership change, as determined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code) on the amount of taxable income a corporation may offset with NOLs. Section 382 also limits our ability to use R&D tax credits. In addition, if the tax basis of our assets exceeded the fair market value of our assets at the time of an ownership change, Section 382 could also limit our ability to use amortization of capitalized R&D and goodwill to offset taxable income for the first five years following an ownership change. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years until the applicable expiration date for the respective NOLs. As a result, our inability to utilize these NOLs, credits or amortization as a result of any ownership changes could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. In addition, California and certain states have suspended use of NOLs for certain taxable years and other states are considering similar measures. As a result, we may incur higher state income tax expense in the future. Depending on our future tax position, continued suspension of our ability to use NOLs in states in which we are subject to income tax could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition.Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel.A small number of key executive officers manage our business. Their departure could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We believe that our future success will also depend, in large part, on our continued ability to attract and retain highly-qualified technical sales and marketing personnel, design and application engineers, as well as senior management. We believe that there is, and will continue to be, intense competition for qualified personnel in the semiconductor industry as the emerging broadband wireless and wire line communications markets develop, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in retaining our key personnel or in attracting and retaining highly-qualified manufacturing personnel, technical sales and marketing personnel, design and application engineers, as well as senior management. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could have a material effect on our ability to operate our business. We do not presently maintain key-man life insurance for any of our key executive officers.The market price for our common stock has experienced significant price and volume volatility and is likely to continue to experience significant volatility in the future. This volatility may impair our ability to finance strategic transactions with our stock and otherwise harm our business.Our stock price is likely to experience significant volatility in the future as a result of numerous factors outside our control. Significant declines in our stock price may interfere with our ability to raise additional funds through equity financing or to finance strategic transactions with our stock. We have historically used equity incentive compensation as part of our overall compensation arrangements. The effectiveness of equity incentive compensation in retaining key employees may be adversely impacted by volatility in our stock price. In addition, there may be increased risk of securities litigation following periods of fluctuations in our stock price. Securities class action lawsuits are often brought against companies after periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. These and other consequences of volatility in our stock price which could be exacerbated by the recent worldwide financial crisis could have the effect of diverting management’s attention and could materially harm our business.The effectiveness of disclosure controls is inherently limited.We do not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures, or our internal control over financial reporting, will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system objectives will be met. The design of a control system must also reflect applicable resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. As a result of these inherent limitations, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company have been detected. Failure of the control systems to prevent error or fraud could materially adversely impact our financial results and our business.29Table of ContentsITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone