Risk Factors We Have Experienced Continuing Losses from Operations Since March 31, 2001, and We Anticipate Future Losses from Operations We have experienced continuing losses from operations since our revenues peaked in the quarter ended December 31, 2000. Although our revenues have fluctuated since that time, in recent periods they have not been sufficient to cover our operating expenses, and we anticipate future losses from operations as a result. Moreover, since fiscal 2001 our operating results have been materially and adversely affected by inventory write-downs, restructuring charges and impairment charges. We may be required to take additional similar charges in the future, which could have a material and adverse effect on our operating results. Due to general economic conditions and slowdowns in purchases of networking equipment, it has become increasingly difficult for us to predict the purchasing activities of our customers and we expect that our operating results will fluctuate substantially in the future. Due to a slowdown in orders from our storage customers, we have recorded declining total revenues in two of our four most recent quarters relative to the prior quarter. Future fluctuations in operating results may also be caused by a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. Additional factors that could affect our future operating results include the following: • The loss of major customers; • Variations, delays or cancellations of orders and shipments of our products; • Increased competition from current and future competitors; • Reductions in the selling prices of our products; • Significant changes in the type and mix of products being sold; • Delays in introducing new products; • Design changes made by our customers; • Failure by third-party foundries and other subcontractors to manufacture and ship products on time; • Changes in third-party foundries’ and other subcontractors’ manufacturing capacity, utilization of their capacity and manufacturing yields; • Variations in product development costs; • Changes in our or our customers’ inventory levels; • Expenses or operational disruptions resulting from acquisitions; and • Sale or closure of discontinued operations. For example, our customers’ high levels of inventory contributed to a significant decline in sales of our products in fiscal 2001, 2002, 2004 and in the first and fourth quarters of fiscal 2005. In addition, in fiscal 2003 we decided to discontinue our line of optical module products and sell certain assets of that business, as a result of which our fiscal 2003 statements of operations and cash flows reflect losses from discontinued operations associated with that business. We implemented significant restructuring programs and cost reductions between fiscal 2001 and 2005, and we cannot assure you that we will not undertake further such actions in the future. In addition, in the past we 10 Table of Contents have recorded significant new product development costs because our policy is to expense these costs at the time that they are incurred. We may incur these types of expenses in the future. These additional expenses may have a material and adverse effect on our operating results in future periods. The occurrence of any of the above-mentioned factors could have a material adverse effect on our business and on our financial results. If We Are Unable to Develop and Introduce New Products Successfully or to Achieve Market Acceptance of Our New Products, Our Operating Results Will Be Adversely Affected Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new high-performance integrated circuits for existing and new markets, introduce these products in a cost-effective and timely manner and convince leading equipment manufacturers to select these products for design into their own new products. Our financial results in the past have been, and are expected in the future to continue to be, dependent on the introduction of a relatively small number of new products and the timely completion and delivery of those products to customers. The development of new integrated circuits is highly complex, and from time to time we have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. Our ability to develop and deliver new products successfully will depend on various factors, including our ability to: • Accurately predict market requirements and evolving industry standards; • Accurately define new products; • Timely complete and introduce new products; • Timely qualify and obtain industry interoperability certification of our products and our customers’ products into which our products will be incorporated; • Work with our foundry subcontractors to achieve high manufacturing yields; and • Gain market acceptance of our products and our customers’ products. If we are not able to develop and introduce new products successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. Our success will also depend on the ability of our customers to successfully develop new products and enhance existing products for the communications and storage markets. The communications and storage markets may not develop in the manner or in the time periods that our customers anticipate. If they do not, or if our customers’ products do not gain widespread acceptance in these markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. We Are Dependent on a Small Number of Customers in a Few Industries We intend to continue focusing our sales efforts on a small number of customers in the communications and storage markets that require high-performance integrated circuits. Some of these customers are also our competitors. If any of our major customers were to delay orders of our products or stop buying our products, our business and financial condition would be severely affected. We Depend on Third Party Foundries and Other Suppliers to Manufacture Substantially All of Our Current Products Wafer fabrication for the majority of our products is outsourced to third-party silicon foundries such as IBM, LSI Logic, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation, Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing and United Microelectronics Corporation. As a result, we depend on third-party foundries to allocate a portion of their manufacturing capacity sufficient to meet our needs and to produce products of acceptable quality in a timely manner. There are significant risks associated with our reliance on third-party foundries, including: • The lack of assured wafer supply, the potential for wafer shortages and possible increases in wafer prices; • Limited control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, production costs and product quality; and • The unavailability of, or delays in obtaining, access to key process technologies. 11 Table of Contents These and other risks associated with our reliance on third-party foundries could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, the third-party foundries that manufacture our wafers have from time to time experienced manufacturing defects and reductions in manufacturing yields. In addition, disruptions and shortages in foundry capacity may impair our ability to meet our customers’ needs and negatively impact our operating results. Our third-party foundries fabricate products for other companies and, in certain cases, manufacture products of their own design. Historically, there have been periods in which there has been a worldwide shortage of foundry capacity for the production of high-performance integrated circuits such as ours. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our third-party foundries, but instead subcontract our manufacturing requirements on a purchase order basis. As a result, although we believe that we currently have access to adequate foundry capacity to support our sales levels, it is possible that the capacity we will need in the future may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition to third-party foundries, we also depend on third-party subcontractors in the U.S. and Asia for the assembly and packaging of our products. As with our foundries, any difficulty in obtaining parts or services from these subcontractors could affect our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to customers, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our customer relationships, business and financial results. If We Do Not Achieve Satisfactory Manufacturing Yields or Quality, Our Business Will Be Harmed The fabrication of integrated circuits is a highly complex and technically demanding process. Defects in designs, problems associated with transitions to newer manufacturing processes and the inadvertent use of defective or contaminated materials can result in unacceptable manufacturing yields and performance. These problems are frequently difficult to detect in the early stages of the production process and can be time-consuming and expensive to correct once detected. Even though we procure substantially all of our wafers from third-party foundries, we are responsible for low yields when these wafers are probed. In the past, we have experienced difficulties in achieving acceptable yields on some of our products, particularly with new products, which frequently involve newer manufacturing processes and smaller geometry features than previous generations. Maintaining high numbers of shippable die per wafer is critical to our operating results, as decreased yields can result in higher per-unit costs, shipment delays and increased expenses associated with resolving yield problems. Because we also use estimated yields to value work-in-process inventory, yields below our estimates can require us to increase the value of inventory that is already reflected on our financial statements, and possible the related reserves. In addition, defects in our existing or new products may require us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, and could divert the attention of our engineering personnel away from the development of new products. As a result, poor manufacturing yields, defects or other performance problems with our products could adversely affect our business and operating results. Acquisitions May Be Difficult to Integrate, Disrupt Our Business, Dilute Stockholder Value or Divert the Attention of Our Management Within the last several years we have made a series of acquisitions, including a number of significant acquisitions. Our management frequently evaluates available strategic opportunities, and as a result we may pursue additional acquisitions of complementary products, technologies or businesses in the future. If we fail to achieve the financial and strategic benefits of past and future acquisitions, however, including our acquisitions of the Adaptec RAID on Chip (ROC) business, Cicada and Multilink, our business and operating results will be materially and adversely affected. In undertaking future acquisitions we may: • Issue stock that would dilute the ownership of our then-existing stockholders; • Reduce the cash available to fund operations or meet other liquidity needs; • Incur debt; or • Assume other liabilities. 12 Table of Contents For example, in connection with our acquisition of Versatile Optical Networks, Inc. in July 2001, we issued approximately 8.8 million shares of our common stock. In August 2003, we subsequently sold certain assets of this business at a loss, requiring us to recognize losses from discontinued operations on our fiscal 2003 statements of operations and cash flows. Acquisitions also involve numerous other risks after they are completed, including: • Difficulties in integrating the acquired operations, technologies, products and personnel with ours; • Failure to achieve targeted synergies; • Amortization expenses and impairment charges relating to intangible assets; • Unanticipated costs and liabilities, including charges for the impairment of the value of acquired assets; • Diversion of management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our core business; • Adverse effects on our existing business relationships with suppliers and customers or those of the acquired organization; • Difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and • Potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired organizations. For example, in fiscal 2002 we recorded impairment charges of $398.9 million associated with goodwill and other intangible assets related to past acquisitions. As of September 30, 2005, and after accounting for these impairment charges, we had an aggregate of $238.9 million of goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet. These assets may be written down in the future to the extent they are deemed to be impaired and any such write-downs would adversely affect our results of operations. Our Industry Is Highly Competitive The markets for our products are intensely competitive and subject to rapid technological advancement in design technology, wafer-manufacturing techniques and alternate networking technologies. We must identify and capture future market opportunities to offset the rapid price erosion that characterizes our industry. We may not be able to develop new products at competitive pricing and performance levels. Even if we are able to do so, we may not complete a new product and introduce it to market in a timely manner. Our customers may substitute use of our products in their next-generation equipment with those of current or future competitors. In the communications market, which includes our Ethernet business, our competitors include Agere Systems, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation, Broadcom, Marvell, Maxim Integrated Products, Mindspeed and PMC Sierra. In our storage markets, we principally compete against Emulex, LSI Logic, PMC Sierra and Qlogic. Over the next few years, we expect additional competitors, some of which may have greater financial and other resources, to enter the market with new products. In addition, we are aware of smaller privately-held companies that focus on specific portions of our range of products. These companies, individually and collectively, represent future competition for design wins and subsequent product sales. We typically face competition at the design stage, where customers evaluate alternative design approaches that require integrated circuits. Our competitors have increasingly frequent opportunities to supplant our products in next generation systems because of shortened product life and design-in cycles in many of our customers’ products. Competition is particularly strong in the market for communications and storage ICs, in part due to the market’s historical growth rate, which attracts larger competitors, and in part due to the number of smaller companies focused on this area. Larger competitors in our market have acquired both mature and early stage companies with advanced technologies. These acquisitions could enhance the ability of larger competitors to obtain new business that Vitesse might have otherwise won. 13 Table of Contents Our International Sales and Operations Subject Us to Risks That Could Adversely Affect Our Revenue and Operating Results Sales to customers located outside the U.S. have historically accounted for a significant percentage of our revenue and we anticipate that such sales will continue to be a significant percentage of our revenue. International sales constituted 59%, 46% and 30% of our total revenue in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. International sales involve a variety of risks and uncertainties, including risks related to: • Reliance on strategic alliance partners; • Compliance with changing foreign regulatory requirements and tax laws; • Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • Reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • Longer payment cycles to collect accounts receivable in some countries; • Political and economic instability; • Economic downturns in international markets. • Changing restrictions imposed by U.S. export laws; and • Competition from U.S. based companies that have firmly established significant international operations. Failure to successfully address these risks and uncertainties could adversely affect our international sales, which could in turn have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We Must Keep Pace with Rapid Technological Change and Evolving Industry Standards We sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid changes in both product and process technologies, including evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing demand for higher levels of integration and smaller process geometries. We believe that our success to a large extent depends on our ability to adapt to these changes, to continue to improve our product technologies and to develop new products and technologies in order to maintain our competitive position. Our failure to accomplish any of the above could have a negative impact on our business and financial results. If new industry standards emerge, our products or our customers’ products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could lose market share. We may also have to incur substantial unanticipated costs to comply with these new standards. Our Business Is Subject to Environmental Regulations We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile and other hazardous chemicals used in our design and manufacturing processes. In some circumstances, these regulations may require us to fund remedial action regardless of fault. Consequently, it is often difficult to estimate the future impact of environmental matters, including the potential liabilities associated with chemicals used in our design and manufacturing processes. If we fail to comply with these regulations, we could be subject to fines or be required to suspend or cease our operations. In addition, these regulations may restrict our ability to expand operations at our present locations or require us to incur significant compliance-related expenses. Due to environmental concerns, the need for lead-free solutions in electronic components is receiving increasing attention within the semiconductor industry and many companies are moving towards becoming compliant with the Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive, the European legislation that restricts the use of a number of substances, including lead, effective July 2006. We believe that our products are compliant with the RoHS Directive and that materials will be available to meet these emerging regulations. However, it is possible that unanticipated supply shortages or delays may occur as a result of these new regulations. 14 Table of Contents Our Failure to Manage Changes to Our Operations Infrastructure May Adversely Affect Us Prior to fiscal 2001 we experienced a period of rapid growth and expanded our operations and infrastructure accordingly. More recently, we implemented a series of restructuring plans between fiscal 2001 and 2005 that reduced this infrastructure. Throughout this period we have also made a number of acquisitions. These changes have placed, and continue to place, a significant strain on our personnel, systems and other resources. Unless we manage these changes effectively, we may encounter challenges in executing our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our recent restructuring efforts, in particular, may disrupt our operations and adversely affect our ability to respond rapidly to any renewed growth opportunities. We Are Dependent on Key Personnel Due to the specialized nature of our business, our success depends in part upon attracting and retaining the services of qualified managerial and technical personnel. The competition for qualified personnel is intense. The loss of any of our key employees or the failure to hire additional skilled technical personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. If We Are Not Successful in Protecting Our Intellectual Property Rights, It May Harm Our Ability to Compete We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protections, as well as confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. For example, we enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and business partners, and control access to and distribution of our proprietary information. We have been issued 73 U.S. patents and 4 foreign patents and have a number of pending patent applications. However, despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, we cannot assure you that: • The steps we take to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property will be successful; • Any existing or future patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented; • Any pending patent applications or future applications will be approved; • Others will not independently develop similar products or processes to ours or design around our patents; or • Any of the measures described above would provide meaningful protection. A failure by us to meaningfully protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and ability to compete. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain countries. We May Be Subject to Claims of Infringement of Third-Party Intellectual Property Rights or Demands That We License Third-Party Technology, Which Could Result in Significant Expense and Loss of Our Proprietary Rights The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. As is common in the industry, from time to time third parties have asserted patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business and have demanded that we license their patents and technology. To date, none of these claims has resulted in the commencement of any litigation against us nor have we believed that it is necessary to license any of the rights referred to in such claims. We expect, however, that we will continue to receive such claims in the future, and any litigation to determine their validity, regardless of their merit or resolution, could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. We cannot assure you that we would prevail in such disputes given 15 Table of Contents the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If such litigation were to result in an adverse ruling we could be required to: • Pay substantial damages; • Discontinue the use of infringing technology, including ceasing the manufacture, use or sale of infringing products; • Expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology; or • License technology from the party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. A Recently Announced Change in the Accounting Treatment of Stock Options Will Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued revised SFAS No. 123, Share-Based Payment, or SFAS 123R, which requires companies to expense employee stock options for financial reporting purposes. As a result, beginning in October 2005, we will be required to value our employee stock option grants pursuant to an option valuation model, and then amortize that value against our reported earnings over the vesting period in effect for those options. We currently account for stock-based awards to employees in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and have adopted the disclosure-only alternative of SFAS 123 and SFAS 128, each of which has been superseded by SFAS 123R. Following the implementation of SFAS 123R, our stock-based compensation expense will be charged directly against our reported earnings. We are currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of SFAS 123R will have on our consolidated results of operations, consolidated financial position, and consolidated cash flows, and the change in accounting treatment, and we expect that the change in accounting treatment will materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The Market Price for Our Common Stock Has Been Volatile and Future Volatility Could Cause the Value of Your Investment in Our Company to Fluctuate Our stock price has recently experienced significant volatility. In particular, our stock price declined significantly during fiscal 2004 and 2005 following announcements made by us and other semiconductor suppliers of reduced revenue expectations and of a general slowdown in the technology sector. We expect that fluctuations in the demand for our products and our operating results will cause our stock price to continue to be volatile. In addition, the value of your investment could decline due to the impact of any of the following factors, among others, upon the market price of our common stock: • Additional changes in financial analysts’ estimates of our revenues and operating results; • Our failure to meet financial analysts’ performance expectations; and • Changes in market valuations of other companies in the semiconductor or networking industries. In addition, many of the risks described elsewhere in this section could materially and adversely affect our stock price, as discussed in those risk factors. U.S. financial markets have recently experienced substantial price and volume volatility. Fluctuations such as these have affected and are likely to continue to affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility and decline in the market price of such companies’ securities. If instituted against us, regardless of the outcome, such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management’s attention and resources and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be required to pay substantial damages, including punitive damages, if we were to lose such a lawsuit. 16 Table of Contents Our Ability to Repurchase Our Debentures, If Required, with Cash, upon a Change of Control May Be Limited In certain circumstances involving a change of control or the termination of public trading of our common stock, holders of our 2024 Debentures may require us to repurchase some or all of the debentures. We cannot assure that we will have sufficient financial resources at such time or will be able to arrange financing to pay the repurchase price of the debentures. Our ability to repurchase the debentures in such event may be limited by law, by the indenture associated with the debentures, by the terms of other agreements relating to our senior debt and by such indebtedness and agreements as may be entered into, replaced, supplemented or amended from time to time. We may be required to refinance our debt in order to make such payments. We may not have the financial ability to repurchase the debentures if payment of our debt is accelerated. If we fail to repurchase the debentures as required by the indenture, it would constitute an event of default under the indenture governing the debentures which, in turn, may also constitute an event of default under other of our obligations. Our Operating Results May Fluctuate Significantly Due to the Embedded Derivative Associated with Our 1.5% Convertible Subordinated Debentures In connection with the issuance of our 2024 Debentures, the requirement that we pay a make-whole premium in certain circumstances upon the occurrence of a fundamental change constitutes an embedded derivative in accordance with SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, the value of which we are required to mark-to-market each reporting period. Any fluctuations in the value of this embedded derivative would generally be reflected as interest expense or income in our results of operations. As a result, there may be material fluctuations in our results of operations. 