RISK FACTORS In evaluating the Company’s business, readers should carefully consider the business risks discussed in this section in addition to the other information presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC. The conversion ratio of the convertible notes and the exercise price of the warrants may be substantially below the market price of our stock at the time of exercise which could potentially have a negative impact our stock price. In conjunction with the acquisition of Gupta, we obtained debt financing that included convertible notes in the principal amount of $5,350,000 and we also issued 670,000 warrants. The convertible notes resulting from our debt financing are currently convertible into our common stock at a fixed ratio of $2.50 per share for $1,000,000 of the convertible notes and $5.00 per share for the remaining $4,350,000 of convertible notes. The warrants are exercisable at fixed exercise prices ranging from $1.35 per share to $1.90 per share. Subject to certain exceptions, these conversion ratios and exercise prices are subject to downward adjustment in the event we issue additional shares of common stock at prices below the then-current conversion ratio or exercise price. Conversion of the notes or exercise of the warrants is only likely to occur at such time as the conversion ratio or exercise price, as the case may be, is lower than the current market price for our stock. Issuance of common stock at a price below our current market price would have a dilutive effect on current stockholders and could potentially have a negative impact on our stock price. If we default on any secured loan, all or a portion of our assets could be subject to forfeiture. To finance the cash portion of the acquisition of Gupta and provide working capital, we entered into a Revolving Credit and Term Loan Agreement (the “Loan Agreement”) with ComVest on November 20, 2006. Under the Loan Agreement, we granted to ComVest a first priority security interest in substantially all of our assets. If we default on the Loan Agreement and are unable to cure the default pursuant to the terms of the agreement, our lender could take possession of any or all assets in which it holds a security interest, including intellectual property, and dispose of those assets to the extent necessary to pay off the debts, which could seriously harm our business. Furthermore, we may enter into other secured credit or loan agreements in the future. If we are unable to register the shares underlying the convertible notes and warrants issued pursuant to the Loan Agreement in a timely fashion we may be required to pay liquidated damages. We entered into a registration rights agreement with the investors under the Loan Agreement pursuant to which we agreed to register the shares of common stock issuable on conversion of the notes and exercise of the warrants. Recent changes in SEC policy with respect to transactions has made it more difficult to register shares in transactions such as the transaction contemplated by the Loan Agreement. Pursuant to the loan agreement we were required to have the shares registered on or before May 19, 2007 or be subject to a penalty equal to $1,000 for each day the registration statement is not effective, up to an aggregate maximum of $500,000. While we have filed a registration statement with SEC for the shares, to date we have not received SEC approval to have the related registration statement made effective. We have not obtained an extension or waiver from the investor with respect to registration statement being deemed effective and we may be required to pay to the investors a cash fee per the loan agreement. As of July 18, 2007, we have paid a total of $12,000 in liquidated damages under this provision. We are subject to intense competition. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience intense competition from current and future competitors including BEA Systems, IBM, Microsoft Corporation, and Oracle Corporation. Often, these competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than Unify, in addition to having greater name recognition and more extensive customer bases. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. In addition, current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, thereby increasing the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among current and new competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share. Such competition could adversely affect our ability to sell additional licenses and maintenance and support renewals on terms favorable to us. Further, competitive pressures could require us to reduce the price of our products and related services, which could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competition, and the failure to do so would have an adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. 9 The markets in which we compete are subject to rapid technological change. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent introductions of new and enhanced products, changes in customer demands and evolving industry standards. The introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to address the increasingly sophisticated needs of customers by developing new product functionality and enhancements that keep pace with technological developments, emerging industry standards and customer requirements. There can be no assurance that our products will continue to be perceived by our customers as technologically advantageous or that we will not experience difficulties that delay or prevent the sale of enhancements to existing products that meet with a significant degree of market acceptance. If the release dates of any future product enhancements, or new products are delayed or if when released they fail to achieve market acceptance, our business, operating results, and financial condition would be adversely affected. We are dependent on indirect sales channels. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from indirect sales channels, including ISVs, VARs and distributors. ISVs, VARs and distributors accounted for approximately 61%, 51% and 51% of our software license revenues for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Our success therefore depends in part upon the performance of our indirect sales channels, over which we have limited influence. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth in the future depends in part on maintaining and expanding our indirect sales channels worldwide. The loss of any major partners, either to competitive products offered by other companies or to products developed internally by those partners, or the failure to attract effective new partners, could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. There are numerous risks associated with our international operations and sales. Revenues derived from our international customers accounted for 73%, 70% and 64% of our total revenues, with the remainder from North America, in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. If the revenues generated by our international operations are not adequate to offset the expense of maintaining such operations, our overall business, operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to successfully market, sell and deliver our products in these markets. Although we have had international operations for a number of years, there are certain unique business challenges and risks inherent in doing business outside of North America, and such challenges and risks can vary from region to region. These include unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; export restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; longer payment cycles; problems in collecting accounts receivable; political instability; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe and other parts of the world; unfamiliar or unusual business practices; and potentially adverse tax consequences, any of which could adversely impact the success of our international operations. There can be no assurance that one or more of these factors will not have an adverse effect on our future international operations and, consequently, on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the Company’s subsidiaries and distributors in Europe and Japan operate in local currencies. If the value of the U.S. dollar increases relative to foreign currencies, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. The reverse stock split may have an effect on the trading market for our shares. The reduction in the number of issued and outstanding shares occasioned by the reverse stock split resulted in an increase in the market price of our Common Stock, although such price increase is not necessarily in proportion to the ratio of the reverse stock split. The trading price of our Common Stock depends on many factors, including many which are beyond our control. A higher stock price may increase investor interest and reduce resistance of brokerage firms to recommend the purchase of our Common Stock. On the other hand, to the extent that negative investor sentiment regarding our Common Stock is not based on our underlying business fundamentals, the reverse stock split may not overcome such sentiment enough to increase our stock price. In addition, the liquidity of our Common Stock may be adversely affected by the reduced number of shares outstanding after the reverse stock split, and the reverse stock split will increase the number of stockholders who own “odd lots,” which consist of blocks of fewer than 100 shares. Stockholders who hold odd lots may be required to pay higher brokerage commissions when they sell their shares and may have greater difficulty in making sales. Our stock price may be subject to volatility. Unify’s common stock price has been and is likely to continue to be subject to significant volatility. A variety of factors could cause the price of the common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including: announcements of developments related to our business; fluctuations in the operating results and order levels of Unify or its competitors; general conditions in the computer industry or the worldwide economy; announcements of technological innovations; new products or product enhancements from us or our competitors; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; developments in patent, copyright or other intellectual property rights; and developments in our relationships with our customers, distributors and suppliers; legal proceedings brought against the Company or its officers; and significant changes in our senior management team. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general, and the market for shares of equity securities of many high technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. Such fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 10 Unify’s stock trades over-the-counter on the “bulletin board.” Companies whose shares trade over-the-counter generally receive less analyst coverage and their shares are more thinly traded than stock that is traded on the NASDAQ National Market System or a major stock exchange. Our stock is therefore subject to greater price volatility than stock trading on national market systems or major exchanges. Our quarterly operating results may be subject to fluctuations and seasonal variability. Unify’s quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past and we expect that they could vary significantly in the future. Such variations could result from the following factors: the size and timing of significant orders and their fulfillment; demand for our products; the quantity, timing and significance of our product enhancements and new product announcements or those of our competitors; our ability to attract and retain key employees; seasonality; changes in our pricing or our competitors’; realignments of our organizational structure; changes in the level of our operating expenses; incurrence of extraordinary operating expenses, changes in our sales incentive plans; budgeting cycles of our customers; customer order deferrals in anticipation of enhancements or new products offered by us or our competitors; product life cycles; product defects and other product quality problems; currency fluctuations; and general domestic and international economic and political conditions. Due to the foregoing factors, quarterly revenues and operating results may vary on a quarterly basis. Revenues and quarterly results may vary because software technology is rapidly evolving, and our sales cycle, from initial evaluation to purchase and the providing of maintenance services, can be lengthy and varies substantially from customer to customer. Because we normally deliver products within a short time of receiving an order, we typically do not have a backlog of orders. As a result, to achieve our quarterly revenue objectives, we are dependent upon obtaining orders in any given quarter for shipment in that quarter. Furthermore, because many customers place orders toward the end of a fiscal quarter, we generally recognize a substantial portion of our software license revenues at the end of a quarter. Our expense levels largely reflect our expectations for future revenue and are therefore somewhat fixed in the short term. We expect that our operating results will continue to be affected by the continually challenging IT economic environment as well as by seasonal trends. In particular, we anticipate relatively weak demand in the fiscal quarters ending July 31 and October 31 as a result of reduced business activity in Europe during the summer months. Our products are subject to lengthy sales cycles. Our products are used to implement comprehensive solutions including policy administration and underwriting, transportation labor standards evaluations and process-centric, composite applications. As a result, the licensing and implementation of our applications and applications built using our products generally involve a five to ten week implementation time and a significant commitment of management attention and resources by prospective customers. Accordingly, our sales cycle is subject to delays associated with the long approval process that typically accompanies significant initiatives or capital expenditures. Our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected if customers reduce or delay orders. There can be no assurance that we will not continue to experience these and additional delays in the future. Such delays may contribute to significant fluctuations of quarterly operating results in the future and may adversely affect those results. Our software products could contain defects and could be subject to potential release delays. Software products frequently contain errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Although we have not experienced adverse effects resulting from any such defects or errors to date, there can be no assurance that, despite testing by us and current and potential customers, defects and errors will not be found in current versions, new versions or enhancements after commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of revenues, delay in market acceptance, or unexpected re-programming costs, which could have an adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, if the release dates of any future Unify product line additions or enhancements are delayed or if, when released, they fail to achieve market acceptance, our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows would be adversely affected. 11 Our license agreements may not protect us from product liability claims. The license agreements we have with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims. It is possible, however, that the limitation of liability provisions contained in these license agreements may not be effective as a result of existing or future federal, state or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions. The sale and support of current and future products may involve the risk of such claims, any of which are likely to be substantial in light of the use of these products in the development of core business applications. A successful product liability claim brought against the Company could have an adverse effect upon our business, operating results, and financial condition. We rely upon technology from certain third-party suppliers. Unify is dependent on third-party suppliers for software which is embedded in some of its products. We believe that the functionality provided by software which is licensed from third parties is obtainable from multiple sources or could be developed by the Company. However, if any such third-party licenses were terminated, or not renewed, or if these third parties fail to develop new products in a timely manner, we could be required to develop an alternative approach to developing such products, which could require payment of additional fees to third parties, internal development costs and delays and might not be successful in providing the same level of functionality. Such delays, increased costs or reduced functionality could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be subject to violations of our intellectual property rights. Unify relies on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, non-disclosure agreements and other intellectual property protection methods to protect its proprietary technology. Despite our efforts to protect proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and while we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our technology exists, piracy can be expected to be a persistent problem. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. There can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate and, to the extent such rights are not adequate, other companies could independently develop similar products using similar technology. Although there are no pending lawsuits against us regarding infringement of any existing patents or other intellectual property rights, and we have received no notices that we are infringing or allegedly infringing the intellectual property rights of others, there can be no assurance that such infringement claims will not be asserted by third parties in the future. If any such claims are asserted, there can be no assurance that we will be able to defend such claim or if necessary obtain licenses on reasonable terms. Our involvement in any patent dispute or other intellectual property dispute or action to protect trade secrets and know-how may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Adverse determinations in any litigation may subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require that we seek licenses from third parties and prevent us from developing and selling our products. Any of these situations could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Unify may not successfully integrate Gupta into its business and operations. Prior to the consummation of the Purchase and Exchange, Gupta and Unify operated as separate entities. Unify may experience material negative consequences to its business, financial condition or results of operations if it cannot successfully integrate Gupta’s operations with Unify’s. The integration of companies that have previously been operated separately involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to: demands on management related to the significant increase in the size of the business for which they are responsible; diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations to the integration of operations, whether perceived or actual; management of employee relations across facilities; difficulties in the assimilation of different corporate cultures and practices, as well as in the assimilation and retention of broad and geographically dispersed personnel and operations; difficulties and unanticipated expenses related to the integration of departments, systems (including accounting systems), technologies, books and records, procedures and controls (including internal accounting controls, procedures and policies), as well as in maintaining uniform standards, including environmental management systems; expenses of any undisclosed or potential liabilities; and Unify’s ability to maintain its customers Gupta’s customers after the acquisition. Successful integration of Gupta’s operations with Unify’s depends on Unify’s ability to manage the combined operations, to realize opportunities for revenue growth presented by broader product offerings and expanded geographic coverage and to eliminate redundant and excess costs. If Unify’s integration efforts are not successful, Unify may not be able to maintain the levels of revenues, earnings or operating efficiency that it and Gupta achieved or might achieve separately. Our success is dependent upon the retention of key personnel and we may be unable to retain key employees. Our future performance depends on the continued service of key technical, sales and senior management personnel. With the exception of Unify’s president and chief executive officer, there are no other Unify technical, sales, executive or senior management personnel bound by an employment agreement. The loss of the services of one or more of our officers or other key employees could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may fail to retain our key technical, sales and managerial employees, or attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel in the future. Rapid growth may significantly strain the resources of the Company. If we are able to achieve rapid and successful market acceptance of our current and future products, we may undergo a period of rapid growth. This expansion may significantly strain management, financial, customer support, operational and other resources. To accommodate this anticipated growth, we are continuing to implement a variety of new and upgraded operating and financial systems, procedures and controls, including the improvement of our internal management systems. There can be no assurance that such efforts can be accomplished successfully. Any failure to expand these areas in an efficient manner could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Moreover, there can be no assurance that our systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future operations. 12 Our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting may not be effective to detect all errors or to detect and deter wrongdoing, fraud or improper activities in all instances. While we believe we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, our management does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors and fraud. In designing our control systems, management recognizes that any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. Further the design of a control system must reflect the necessity of considering the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. Because of inherent limitations in any control system, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of wrongdoing, if any, that may affect our operations, have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake and that controls may be circumvented by individual acts by some person, by collusion of two or more people or by management’s override of the control. The design of any control system also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of a potential future event, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Because of the inherent limitations in cost-effective control systems, misstatements due to error or wrongdoing may occur and not be detected. Over time, it is also possible that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions that could not be, or were not, anticipated at inception or review of the control systems. Any breakdown in our control systems, whether or not foreseeable by management, could cause investors to lose confidence in the accuracy of our financial reporting and may have an adverse impact on our business and on the market price for Unify’s common stock. 