Item 1A. Risk Factors.Our business faces many risks. We have described below the material risks that we face. There may be additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we do not currently perceive to be material that may also impact our business. Each of the risks and uncertainties described below could lead to events or circumstances that have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and business prospects.Our substantial debt could impair our ability to operate and expose us to certain risks.Our future performance could be affected by our substantial amount of debt. As of March 31, 2013, our total principal amount of outstanding debt was approximately $481.9 million, consisting of $365.0 million principal amount of debt under the First Lien Notes, $104.9 million principal amount of debt under the Second Lien Notes and $12.0 million amount of debt under the 2010 Revolving Credit Facility. Our total consolidated interest expense was $59.8 million, which consists of interest under the Senior Secured Notes and the 2010 Revolving Credit Facility. In addition, the 2010 Revolving Credit Facility and the indentures governing the Senior Secured Notes contain certain covenants that, subject to certain exceptions, restrict us from paying dividends, incurring additional debt, creating liens, entering into certain mergers or consolidations, making acquisitions or other investments and selling or otherwise disposing of assets.Our high level of debt could have important consequences for our business and operations, including the following:•our debt level requires that a significant portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest on debt, reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures and general corporate requirements;•our debt under the 2010 Revolving Credit Facility has a variable rate of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates;•we may have a much higher level of debt than certain of our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage;•our debt level makes us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business;•our debt level reduces our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including increased competition in the publishing industry; and•our debt level limits our ability to pursue other business opportunities, borrow more money for operations or capital in the future and implement our business strategy.Under the 2010 Revolving Credit Facility, we have to comply with a maximum first lien leverage ratio. Our ability to satisfy this ratio is dependent on our business performing in accordance with our projections. If the performance of our business deviates from our projections, we may not be able to satisfy this ratio. If we do not comply with this or other covenants and restrictions, we would be in default under our 2010 Revolving Credit Facility unless we obtained a waiver from the required lenders thereunder. Our outstanding debt under our 2010 Revolving Credit Facility, together with accrued interest, could then be declared immediately due and payable and commitments thereunder could be terminated. Our ability to comply with such provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. Moreover, the instruments governing almost all our other debt contain cross-acceleration provisions so that acceleration under any of our debt may result in a default under our other debt instruments. If a cross-acceleration occurs, the maturity of almost all our debt could be accelerated and become immediately due and payable. If that happens, we would not be able to satisfy our debt obligations, which would have a substantial adverse effect on our ability to continue as a going concern.Obligations under our 2010 Revolving Credit Facility are secured by liens on substantially all our assets and the assets of certain domestic subsidiaries. In addition, our obligations under our 2010 Revolving Credit Facility are secured by a pledge of all the issued and outstanding shares of, or other equity interests in, certain of our existing or subsequently acquired or organized domestic subsidiaries and a percentage of the capital stock of, or other equity interests in, certain of our existing or subsequently acquired or organized foreign subsidiaries. If we, or one of our restricted subsidiaries, should be declared bankrupt or insolvent, or if we otherwise default under our 2010 Revolving Credit Facility, the lenders could declare all the funds borrowed thereunder, together with accrued interest, immediately due and payable and commitments thereunder could be terminated. If we were unable to repay such debt, the lenders could foreclose on the pledged stock of our subsidiaries and on the assets in which they have been granted a security interest.14Table of ContentsFuture acquisitions, partnerships, publishing services agreements and joint ventures may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities.In the future, we may seek to grow the Company and its businesses by making acquisitions or entering into partnerships, publishing services agreements or joint ventures. Any future acquisition, partnership, publishing service agreement or joint venture may require that we make significant cash investments, issue stock or incur substantial debt. In addition, acquisitions, partnerships, publishing services agreements or investments may require significant managerial attention, which may be diverted from our other operations. These capital, equity and managerial commitments may impair the operation of our businesses. Furthermore, any future acquisitions of businesses or facilities could entail a number of additional risks, including:•problems with effective integration of operations;•the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships;•increased operating costs;•exposure to unanticipated liabilities; and•difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings.Such acquisitions and investments may require additional funding which may be provided in the form of additional debt, equity financing or a combination thereof. We cannot assure that any such additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all, or that we will be permitted under the terms of the 2010 Revolving Credit Facility (or any replacement thereof) or under the terms of the indentures governing our Senior Secured Notes to obtain such financing for such purpose.We have incurred indebtedness to finance past acquisitions. We may finance future acquisitions with additional indebtedness, subject to limits in our debt agreements. As a result, we could face the financial risks associated with incurring additional indebtedness such as reducing our liquidity and access to financing markets and increasing the amount of cash flow required to service such indebtedness.Our performance could be adversely affected if we lose our key personnel.We believe that our success is largely dependent on the abilities and experience of our senior management team. The loss of the services of one or more of these senior executives could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our overall operations or successfully execute current or future business strategies. We do not maintain key man life insurance on the lives of our senior management. We have entered into employment agreements or arrangements with our senior management team, certain of which contain non-compete provisions. While we believe that we could find replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services could have a significant adverse effect on our operations.If we fail to implement our business strategy, our business will be adversely affected.Our future financial performance and success are dependent in large part upon our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. We may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy or improve our operating results. In particular, we may not be able to increase circulation of our publications, obtain new sources of advertising revenues, generate additional revenues by building on the brand names of our publications, attract new clients for DSI or raise the cover prices of our publications without causing a decline in circulation. Furthermore, any growth through acquisitions and investments will be dependent upon identifying suitable acquisition or investment candidates and successfully consummating such transactions and integrating the acquired operations at reasonable costs. We may not successfully integrate any acquired businesses or publishing services client and may not be able to achieve anticipated revenue and cost benefits.Any failure to successfully implement our business strategy may adversely affect our ability to service our indebtedness, including our ability to make principal and interest payments on the debt. We may, in addition, decide to alter or discontinue certain aspects of our business strategy at any time.15Table of ContentsThe global financial crisis and economic downturn could continue to negatively impact our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition, as well as our ability to accurately forecast our results, and it may cause a number of the risks that we currently face to increase in likelihood, magnitude and duration.The recent financial crisis and economic downturn continue to negatively impact economic activity globally. Our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. Our customers may continue to delay or reduce their expenditures in response to deteriorating macroeconomic and industry conditions and uncertainty, which has had a significant negative impact on the demand for our products and therefore the cash flows of our business and could continue to have a negative impact on our liquidity and capital resources. In addition, our revenues from advertising are still negatively impacted as some customer advertising budgets have continued to be scaled back. Management expects to continue facing challenges resulting from the recent downturn in economic conditions.A number of risks that we ordinarily face may increase in likelihood, magnitude and duration. These risks include potential deterioration of our customers’ ability to pay; losses or impairment charges; reduced revenue; further deterioration in our cash balances; an inability to access the capital markets; a further reduction in the amount of money that advertisers have available to spend for advertising in our products, increases in fuel prices, which affect our freight costs; increases in postage rates; unfavorable regulations; and our inability to achieve cost savings. We expect to continue facing challenges resulting from the recent downturn in economic conditions.Our business is affected by factors that impact consumer spending habits or patterns.Most of our products involve discretionary spending on the part of consumers. Consumer spending is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. This makes our products sensitive to general economic conditions and economic cycles and trends in advertising placements, and we have experienced reduced demand for, and decreased advertising in, our products in the recent recessionary environment. Certain economic conditions such as regional or international economic downturns, including periods of increased inflation, unemployment levels, tax rates, interest rates, gasoline and other energy prices or declining consumer confidence negatively impact consumer spending. Reduced consumer spending or a shift in consumer spending patterns will likely result in reduced demand for our products and may also require increased selling and promotional expenses. A reduction or shift in domestic or international consumer spending habits or patterns could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.General economic trends, as well as trends in advertising spending and competition, along with declines in single copy circulation, may reduce our advertising and circulation revenues, which represent the vast majority of our revenues.Our advertising and circulation revenues, which accounted for 92% of our total operating revenues in fiscal 2013, are subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global market conditions (e.g. recessionary environments or increases in fuel prices and interest rates) and possible shifting of advertising spending from print to Internet or other media or decreases in advertising budgets. Extraordinary weather conditions, such as hurricanes and the tornado outbreaks, can impact newsstand sales, advertising revenues and other revenues, such as distribution. Any adverse impact of economic conditions on our business may result in reductions in advertising and circulation revenue.Our circulation revenues are subject to the risks arising from our ability to institute price increases for our print products and are affected by competition from other publications and other forms of media available in our various markets, changing consumer lifestyles resulting in decreasing amounts of free time, declining frequency of regular magazine buying among young people and increasing costs of circulation acquisition.We believe that the principal factors contributing to the declines in our single copy circulation include: (1) the recent economic slowdown; (2) increased competition from other publications and forms of media, such as certain newspapers, television and radio programs and websites concentrating on celebrity news; (3) a general industry-wide decline in single copy circulation of individual publications due to the recent economic decline and competition from other forms of media; and (4) diminished service levels from wholesalers who distribute our magazines to retailers and fill the pockets at checkout counters as a result of consolidation among wholesalers and their related efforts to cut expenses.Historically, we have been able to offset some of the declines in single copy circulation, in part, through increases in cover prices and cost reductions. We may not be able to increase cover prices without decreasing circulation or be able to take other measures, such as increasing advertising revenue rates or pages and reducing print orders of our titles, to offset such circulation declines. In addition, we may not be able to reverse the single copy circulation declines described above, and such declines in circulation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.16Table of ContentsWe face significant competition from other publications and other forms of media, such as television, radio and digital concentrating on celebrity news and health and fitness, which we expect will continue to intensify, and we may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position.We compete in varying degrees with other publications sold at retailers’ checkout counters, as well as forms of media concentrating on celebrity news, such as certain tabloids, magazines and digital, and television and radio programs. We believe that historical declines in single copy circulation have resulted, in part, from increased competition from publications and other forms of media. Competition for circulation is largely based upon the content of the publication, its placement in retail outlets and its price. Competition for advertising revenues is largely based upon circulation levels, readership, demographics, price and results. Certain of our competitors have substantially larger operating staffs, greater capital resources and greater revenues from their publications. In this respect, we may be at a competitive disadvantage with such entities. We believe that our most significant direct competitors in the print media are Time Warner (People Magazine), Bauer Publishing (In Touch and Life & Style), Wenner Media (US Weekly and Men's Journal), Condé Nast Publications (Self), Meredith Corporation (Fitness, Parents and American Baby) and Rodale (Women's Health, Men's Health and Prevention). The publishing industry is undergoing a transformation in the way consumers consume a publisher's content. Consumers are increasingly opting to access editorial and other content through digital platforms besides print publications. In order to address the consumer migration to digital platforms, we have been implementing, and continue to implement, a digital investment strategy to ensure that we offer editorial and other content for digital platforms and we have the appropriate technology to digitally deliver such content to our consumers in the formats they prefer. In addition, we compete with other publishers and non-publishing parties for advertising sales for our digital properties based on the number of unique users we attract each month, the demographic profile of that audience and the number of pages they view on our websites. Due to the competitive nature of the publishing industry, advertising sales in general and the rapidly evolving technology used to deliver digital content, we may not be able to successfully monetize our digital content. In addition, we may not be able to monetize our digital content at a level necessary to meet or exceed the amount of print revenue we may lose due to the consumer's migration to digital content. If we are not able to successfully monetize our digital content or do so at a level to offset the print revenue we lose, our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Increased competition may result in less demand for our products and services, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by increases in fuel costs, the price of paper or postage and printing costs.Many aspects of our business have been directly affected by increases in the cost of fuel. Increased fuel costs have translated into increased costs for the products and services we receive from our third-party suppliers, including, but not limited to, increased production and distribution costs for our products. In particular, paper and postage represent significant components of our total cost to produce and distribute our printed products and represented approximately 20% of our total operating expenses for fiscal 2013. Paper is a commodity and its price has been subject to significant volatility due to supply and demand in the marketplace as well as volatility in the raw material and other costs incurred by our paper suppliers. We have not entered into a long-term supply agreement with our paper suppliers, and they may raise their prices for paper from time to time. Furthermore, because the United States Postal Service and Canada Post Corporation distribute substantially all our subscription publications and many of our marketing materials, increases in the cost of postage to mail our subscription publications may have an adverse effect on our business. We cannot predict with certainty the magnitude of future price changes in paper and postage or how increases in fuel costs will affect our third-party suppliers and the rates they charge us. If fuel, paper or postage prices increase and we cannot pass these costs on to our customers, such increases may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our business may be adversely affected if we lose one or more of our vendors.A loss of one or more of our vendors related to production or circulation or a disruption in one of those vendors’ businesses or a failure by one of them to meet our production or circulation needs on a timely basis could cause temporary shortages in needed materials or services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.17Table of ContentsTerrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the financial markets and our business, results of operations and financial condition.Terrorist attacks may negatively affect our operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the United States or U.S. businesses. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our retailers, suppliers and customers. These events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. and world financial markets and economy. They could result in an economic recession in the United States or abroad. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Pending and future litigation or regulatory proceedings could materially affect our operations.Since the focus of some of our publications often involves celebrities or controversial subjects and because of our news gathering techniques, the risk of defamation or invasion of privacy litigation or the filing of criminal charges exists. While we have not historically experienced any difficulty obtaining insurance coverage, we cannot assure that we will be able to do so in the future at rates acceptable to us, or at all. There are currently no such claims pending that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition to the celebrity litigation in which we may be involved, from time to time we may be involved in commercial litigation. Any pending or future litigation or regulatory proceeding, if adversely determined, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.If our goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.As of March 31, 2013, the net book value of our goodwill and other intangible assets was approximately $465.4 million. Accounting rules require us to record a charge against our earnings to the extent that any of these assets are impaired. Accordingly, impairment of our goodwill, trade names, subscriber lists or the impairment of other intangible assets due to litigation, obsolescence, competitive factors or other reasons could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Some provisions of Delaware law and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as well as our stockholders’ agreement, may deter third parties from acquiring us.Provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and the laws of Delaware, the state in which we are incorporated, as well as our stockholders’ agreement, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and stockholders’ agreement impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and cause us to take other corporate actions that our stockholders desire.If we do not maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls, our operating results and reputation would be harmed.Effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, effectively prevent fraud and operate successfully. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our operating results and reputation would be harmed. As part of our ongoing monitoring, we may discover material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that require remediation.We cannot assure that material weaknesses or significant deficiencies, to the extent they exist, in internal controls over financial reporting or disclosure controls would be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain effective controls or timely effect any necessary improvement of our internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls could, among other things, result in losses from fraud or error, cause us not to satisfy our reporting obligations, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information or harm our reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.18Table of ContentsWe may suffer credit losses that could adversely affect our results of operations.We extend unsecured credit to most of our customers. We recognize that extending credit and setting appropriate reserves for receivables is largely a subjective decision based on knowledge of the customer and the industry. Credit exposure also includes the amount of estimated unbilled sales. The level of credit is influenced by the customer’s credit history with us and other available information, including industry-specific data. We maintain a reserve account for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to pay, additional allowances might be required, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our single copy revenues consist of copies sold primarily to two wholesalers and the loss of either of these wholesalers could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.As of March 31, 2013, single copy revenues consisted of copies distributed to retailers primarily by two major wholesalers. In fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, The News Group accounted for approximately 29%, 23% and 25%, respectively, of our total operating revenue and Source Interlink Companies accounted for approximately 14%, 12% and 13%, respectively, of our total operating revenue. We have multi-year service arrangements with our wholesalers, which provide incentives to maintain certain levels of service. When these arrangements expire, we may not be able to renew them with the wholesalers on favorable terms, extend the terms of these arrangements or extend our relationship with the wholesalers at all. Our operating results could be materially affected by disruption of the distribution of our magazines through the wholesalers.Employee benefit costs are increasing significantly.Health insurance costs have increased significantly faster than inflation on an annual basis during the past few years. We also anticipate that in coming years, the cost of health care will continue to escalate, causing an increase to our expenses and employee contributions.If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, the value of our intangible assets may be diminished and our competitive position and business may be adversely affected.Our success depends in part upon our ability to protect our intellectual property, consisting primarily of trade secrets, trademarks and copyrights. To protect our intellectual property, we control access to our proprietary technology and other confidential information through a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants, and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, copyright and other protection laws, to protect our proprietary rights. Other parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights and may thereby dilute the value of our brands in the marketplace. Brand dilution or the introduction of competitive brands could cause confusion in the marketplace and adversely affect the value that consumers associate with our brands, thereby negatively impacting our sales. Any such infringement of our intellectual property rights would also likely result in a commitment of our time and resources, financial or otherwise, to protect these rights through litigation or other means. In addition, third parties may assert claims against our intellectual property rights and we may not be able to successfully resolve those claims causing us to lose our ability to use our intellectual property that is the subject of those claims. Such loss could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. Furthermore, from time to time, we may be involved in litigation in which we are enforcing or defending our intellectual property rights, which could require us to incur substantial fees and expenses and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations.Our financial statements are subject to changes in accounting standards that could adversely impact our profitability or financial position.Our financial statements are subject to the application of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“US GAAP”), which are periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board. The impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in our annual and quarterly reports. An assessment of proposed standards is not provided, as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure draft process and, therefore, their effects on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. It is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on the reported results of operations and financial position.19Table of ContentsItem 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.