RISK FACTORS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS Our current liabilities significantly exceed our current assets, and we may not be able to continue to conduct our businesses. As of December 31, 2008, we were in default under the indentures governing our Senior Notes; therefore, Ps. 16,689 million was reclassified in our consolidated financial statements as short-term debt resulting in current liabilities significantly exceeding current assets. As disclosed in Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements, we have initiated negotiations with our financial creditors in order to try to restructure our debt. We continue to operate normally as we work to achieve a financial restructuring. Our consolidated financial statements do not reflect the impact on our results if such plans were unable to be realized. We are in default under our indentures and other financial instruments, and our future is dependent upon our ability to restructure our debt and other financial instruments. As of December 31, 2008, our total consolidated indebtedness was Ps. 20,243 million ($1,464 million) and our consolidated off-balance sheet financings, related to our receivables securitization and sale of receivables transactions, were Ps. 1,546 million ($112 million). Our net interest expense on debt for the year ended December 31, 2008 was Ps. 2,089 million ($151 million), while our operating income was Ps. 1,710 million ($124 million). In order to preserve the necessary cash to continue our operations, we did not make scheduled interest payments due February 2, 2009 of an aggregate amount of $44.8 million on our 2012 Notes and 2017 Notes and we did not make a scheduled interest payment due May 1, 2009 of $12.7 million on our 2013 Notes. Under the indentures governing the Senior Notes, the noteholders have the right to accelerate this debt. In addition, we also did not make a scheduled payment of Ps. 150 million, plus accrued interest, due February 5, 2009, on our Certificados Bursátiles Vitro 03. As a result of these defaults other payment defaults of approximately $17.6 million and other debt of the Company of approximately $81 million is also in default. The common representative of our Certificados Bursátiles Vitro 03 has initiated legal proceedings in Mexico in order to demand payment of Ps. 150 million ($10.9 million), plus accrued interest, on such Certificados Bursátiles Vitro 03. For further discussion, see “Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” and “Item 13. Defaults, Dividend Arrearages and Delinquencies.” In the fourth quarter of 2008, we decided to unwind a majority of our open derivative positions that had been adversely affected due to the high volatility experienced in the financial markets, which resulted in a significant devaluation between the peso and the U.S. dollar and the peso and the euro (see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Trend Information—Inflation and Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Fluctuations.”), as well as a significant reduction in energy prices. Six of the seven banks that are Counterparties with whom we and some of our subsidiaries entered into DFIs have filed law suits in New York demanding payment of the unwound, unpaid positions, in an amount of approximately $325 million (not deducting approximately $85 million, which we dispute, held as cash collateral by the counterparties). On April 24, 2009, we filed our initial response to these lawsuits disputing the amount, legality and enforceability of the DFIs. The six Counterparties that filed suit against the Company have moved for summary judgment on their claims. The Company’s responses to the motions for summary judgment are due on July 10, 2009, and the Court has scheduled an oral hearing on the motions for August 12, 2009. We cannot predict when or how the Court will rule on the motions for summary judgment. 4 Table of Contents We do not have the means to repay or refinance the amounts that are due and payable under our indentures and other financial instruments. Our future is dependent on our ability to restructure our obligations under our indentures and other financial instruments, which will involve a significant reduction of the claims of the holders of our Senior Notes and other financial instruments. If we are able to enter into consensual arrangements with our financial creditors, as part of that process we would make filings under Mexican and U.S. bankruptcy laws to accomplish a prepackaged reorganization of our debt. If we are unable to enter into consensual arrangements with our financial creditors, we could be forced to seek relief through filings under Mexican and U.S. bankruptcy laws, which could force us to operate in bankruptcy (Concurso Mercantil) for an extended period of time, which could materially adversely affect the relationships between us and our customers, suppliers and employees, and may result in a liquidation of the Company. We may not be able to successfully complete our restructuring plan. In addition to negotiations with our financial creditors to restructure our outstanding obligations under our indentures and financial instruments, our ability to complete our restructuring plan and continue our operations is also dependent on: • The overall strength and stability of general economic conditions in the glass container, automotive and construction industries; • Customer confidence in our viability going forward, and our ability to continue to maintain and expand our customer base; • The availability of adequate financing on acceptable terms from our suppliers and their continuing business relationships with us; • Our ability to maintain off-balance sheet securitization programs which provide working capital for operations; • Our ability to sell non-productive assets at favorable prices; • Development of new products and new uses for our products; and • Expansion of our existing customer base. Our business and our ability to continue operations are highly dependent on sales volume, which has been significantly affected by the continued financial crisis. Our operational and financial results are highly sensitive to sales volume, as demonstrated by the sharp declines in each of our core businesses, glass containers and flat glass sales, in relation to the financial crisis that commenced in mid 2008, particularly in the markets in which we operate, principally Mexico, the Unites States and Europe. The sharp decline in demand for new cars and trucks in the automobile industry, for new homes and buildings in the construction industry, and higher priced imported beer in the beverage industry in the United States resulted in an 11.9% decline year over year of our consolidated net sales for the first quarter of 2009, from Ps. 6,881 million to Ps. 6,065 million. Measured in nominal U.S. dollars, the sales decline was 34.5%, from $640 million to $419 million, reflecting the effect of the devaluation of the Mexican peso to the U.S. dollar of 34% for that same period. Operating income went down from Ps. 453 million to Ps. 300 million, or measured in nominal U.S. dollars from $42 million to $21 million. Net income went down from a gain of Ps. 323 million to a loss of Ps. 1,246 million, or measured in nominal U.S. dollars from a gain of $30 million to a loss of $84 million. The continuation of the current recession will continue to adversely affect our business and our ability to maintain profitable operations. A continued downturn in the Mexican economy, from which we derived 44% of our consolidated net sales for both the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008, would reduce the demand for our products and negatively impact our results of operations. Similarly, a prolonged economic downturn in the United States, from which we derived 37% and 40% of our consolidated net sales in 2007 and 2008, respectively, would have an adverse impact on the export and foreign subsidiary sales of our Flat Glass and Glass Containers business units. In recent years, economic conditions in Mexico have become increasingly correlated to economic conditions in the United States. Therefore, continuing adverse economic conditions in the United States could have a significant adverse effect on the Mexican economy. Also, in the past, economic crises in Asia, Russia, Brazil, Argentina and other countries have adversely affected the Mexican economy and therefore our results of operations. 5 Table of Contents We have insufficient liquidity to repay our existing obligations and meet our capital requirements. Our net interest expense from debt for the year ended December 31, 2008 was Ps. 2,089 million ($151 million) and our total comprehensive financing cost was Ps. 9,077 million ($656 million), while our operating income was Ps. 1,710 million ($124 million). As of December 31, 2008, our total consolidated indebtedness was Ps. 20,243 million ($1,464 million), of which Ps. 18,488 million ($1,337 million) is short-term debt, and our consolidated off-balance sheet financings, related to our receivables securitization and sale of receivables transactions, were Ps. 1,546 million ($112 million). As of December 31, 2008 and March 31, 2009, our unrestricted cash and cash equivalent balances were Ps. 1,428 million ($103 million) and Ps. 1,165 million ($81 million), respectively. As a result of our financial condition a number of our suppliers have imposed more restrictive payment terms and security arrangements, which further restrict our liquidity. In addition, under our arrangements to purchase the minority interest in Vitro Cristalglass, we are obligated to make payments of approximately 13 million euros ($19 million) from July 2009 to December 2010. In February 2009, one of our receivables securitization programs providing $19 million of financing for our U.S. operations was terminated. As of March 31, 2009 we had $72 million of securitization financings, and the cancellation of any of these securitization facilities by the lenders would have a significant effect on our liquidity. As of December 31, 2008, we had open DFI hedges with Pemex for approximately 70% of our estimated historical average of natural gas consumption of 20 million MMBTU per year at an average price of approximately $7.90 per MMBTU for 2009, 25% at an average price of approximately $6.80 per MMBTU for 2010 and 15% at an average price of approximately $7.32 per MMBTU for 2011. Our estimated consumption for 2009 is 18 million MMBTU. As of May 31, 2009, our open DFIs with Pemex had a mark-to-market liability value of approximately $45 million, which represents a $12 million increase from a mark-to-market liability value of $33 million as of December 31, 2008. Although Pemex has historically never required collateral or requested early termination, Pemex has the right to seek such remedies pursuant to the agreements. Under the Pemex agreements mentioned above, we are obligated to make monthly settlement payments until December 2011 to the extent the market price on the monthly settlement date of natural gas is below the exercise price set forth in the agreement. For the first five months of 2009, we made monthly settlement payments of an aggregate of approximately $22 million, including the payment of approximately $7.5 million made in May 2009. If the market price of natural gas increases above the exercise price set forth in the agreement, we will be entitled to receive payments from Pemex. However, if the market price ($3.84 per MMBTU as of May 31, 2009) remains low or continues to decrease, our monthly settlement payments will continue at an unsustainable rate or increase, the negative mark-to-market value will increase, and we will be more likely subject to an unprecedented Pemex margin call, any of which would substantially adversely impact our liquidity. In November 2008, we contributed non-productive real estate assets with a book value of Ps. 1,875 million ($136 million) to a trust and received proceeds of $85 million from Bancomext, which provided us with necessary liquidity to continue our operations. In accordance with the trust documents, in the event that the value of the assets transferred to the trust were to decline beneath designated levels, we would be obligated to contribute additional assets to the trust. Under the trust agreement, while the assets are not sold, we are obligated to pay an annual charge of an equivalent of Libor (3 months) + 5% annually on the outstanding amount received from Bancomext until the bank has been repaid from the proceeds from the sale of the contributed assets. Under our indentures, we are prohibited from incurring additional debt, other than the refinancing of outstanding debt and other limited exceptions, and, in addition, based upon our financial condition, we may not be able to arrange debt and other financings that could provide us with additional liquidity to operate our businesses. Even if our debt restructuring is successful, our indebtedness and other obligations could continue to be significant and could contain significant restrictions. Even if we are successful in restructuring our obligations under our indentures and financial instruments and complete our restructuring plan, we could continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness and other obligations. Our ability to make scheduled interest and principal payments on the restructured debt will depend upon our ability to achieve profitability levels to support our new debt, which may be dependent upon an improvement in the current economic environment in the industries we operate. Our net interest expense on debt for the year ended December 31, 2008 was Ps. 2,089 million ($151 million), while our operating income was Ps. 1,710 million ($124 million). 6 Table of Contents The amount of our interest payment requirements could adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including but not limited to, the following: • We may have less cash available to expand and improve our business, since we are required to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of interest on our debt; • Our ability to obtain additional debt financing may be limited and the terms on which such financing is obtained may be negatively affected; and • Our ability to compete effectively against better-capitalized competitors and to withstand downturns in our business may be affected since a significant portion of our cash flow from operations is required to be dedicated to making interest payments. As a result, we may lose market share and experience lower sales, which, in turn, could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The indentures governing our new debt are expected to contain restrictive covenants that are customary to similar indebtedness, including restrictions on the incurrence of additional debt, the payment of dividends, the granting of liens and the making of investments, and may require us to dedicate significant portions of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness. Price pressures that result from over-capacity, lower-margin business opportunities, flat glass customers’ initiatives, and consolidation of our customer base may adversely affect our businesses. Due to the current worldwide economic crisis, there is a significant over-capacity in the markets in which we operate, therefore, we could face significant pricing pressure or could be forced to temporarily enter into different business segments with lower margins within our glass containers and flat glass businesses. Downward pricing pressures by automotive manufacturers is a characteristic of the automotive industry. Virtually all automakers have aggressive price reduction initiatives and objectives each year with their suppliers, and such actions are expected to continue in the future. In addition, estimating such amounts is subject to risk and uncertainties as any price reductions are a result of negotiations and other factors. If we are unable to offset customer price reduction in the future through improved operating efficiencies and other cost reduction initiatives, our results of operations would be adversely affected. Some of our largest customers, mainly in the glass containers business, have acquired companies with similar or complementary product lines. This consolidation has increased the concentration of our business with our largest customers. In many cases, such consolidation has been accompanied by pressure from customers for lower prices, reflecting the increase in the total volume of products purchased or the elimination of a price differential between the acquiring customer and the company acquired. Increased pricing pressures from our customers may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have customers that are significant to us and the loss of all or a portion of their business will have an adverse effect on us. Because of the relative importance of our largest customers, our business is exposed to a certain degree of risk related to customer concentration. In December 2008 Grupo Modelo, one of our key customers in our glass container business notified us that due to the current world market contraction, it significantly reduced its beer bottle requirements from us. The volume reduction impact on our annual consolidated sales for 2009 is expected to be approximately 6.9% of our 2008 consolidated sales. 7 Table of Contents Our significant customers in our flat glass segment are major original equipment car and truck manufacturers, Ford, General Motors, Chrysler and Nissan. Our automotive sales in 2008 declined 1.7% from 2007 and further declined 48.7% in our first quarter ending March 31, 2009. The global worldwide recession is continuing to affect the level of sales in the automotive industry, and some of our key customers are subject to reorganizations under U.S. bankruptcy laws or industry consolidations which may further reduce our levels of sales to this business segment. Given that our profitability depends on our maintenance of a high capacity utilization rate, the loss of all or a portion of the sales volume from a significant customer would have an adverse effect on us. We have experienced rising operating costs in our businesses. Some of our components of our costs of goods sold are subject to market price variations, especially energy costs which represented 18% of our consolidated cost of goods sold in 2008. Such cost is directly linked to the price of natural gas which has experienced significant volatility in recent years. Since the price of natural gas in Mexico is tied to the price of natural gas in Southern Texas, which in turn is fully exposed to market factors such as demand in the United States or the amount of available natural gas reserves, we are exposed to such price variations. Each one dollar change in our unit price of natural gas per million MMBTU has a direct impact of approximately $20 million on our annual operating costs based on our average historical consumption of approximately 1.7 million MMBTUs per month. Natural gas prices in 2008 and the first quarter of 2009 were particularly volatile. During the first seven months of 2008, natural gas prices recorded a sharp price increase from $6.51 to a record high of $12.60 per MMBTU. From July to the end of the year 2008, however, natural gas prices plummeted to $6.00 per MMBTU. The prices have further decreased since then. As of June 26, 2009, the closing price of natural gas on the New York Mercantile Exchange (“NYMEX”) was $3.95 per MMBTU. In the ordinary course of our business, historically we have entered into swaps and other derivative instruments to hedge our exposure to natural gas price increases. As of May 31, 2009, however, the only hedging arrangements to which we remain subject consist in a liability of $45 million of natural gas hedges with Pemex. Because of our financial condition, we are currently unable to enter into hedging transactions to further minimize our exposure to increases in the price of natural gas, and were we able to enter into such transactions, we could not assure you they would be on favorable terms. Therefore, increases in the price of natural gas may cause us to realize significant losses in our results of operations. Additionally, if the price of natural gas increases, we cannot assure you we would be able to raise the prices of our products to fully reflect the increases in our operating costs, and, therefore our results of operations could be adversely affected by continued high prices of natural gas. Furthermore, although a further decrease in the price of natural gas would have a positive impact of substantially reducing our cost of goods sold, the benefits to our cost of sales would be realized over a period of time; whereas, such a further decrease would also have an adverse effect on the fair market value of our natural gas DFIs, resulting in losses that would be immediately recorded within our comprehensive financial results in our statements of operations as a result of mark-to-market valuation accounting requirements. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” We are also a large consumer of soda ash with a consumption of approximately 400 thousand metric tons in 2008, which represented approximately 4% of our cost of goods sold. In the last two years, the price of the soda ash has increased by approximately 70%. Other potential sources of significant variations in our cost of goods sold are packaging and freight costs, which represented 6% and 1% respectively of our cost of goods sold in 2008, respectively. 8 Table of Contents Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may have an adverse effect on our operating income and our total comprehensive financial result. Our total comprehensive financing result is impacted by changes in the value of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar. Foreign currency exchange gains or losses included in our total financing cost result primarily from the impact of changes in the U.S. dollar-peso exchange rate on our Mexican subsidiaries’ U.S. dollar-denominated monetary liabilities (such as U.S. dollar-denominated debt and accounts payable arising from imports of raw materials and equipment) and assets (such as U.S. dollar-denominated cash, cash equivalents and accounts receivable). Because our U.S. dollar-denominated monetary liabilities have historically been significantly in excess of our U.S. dollar-denominated monetary assets, the devaluation or appreciation of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar has historically resulted in foreign currency exchange losses and gains, respectively. Accordingly, in 2008, the devaluation of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar during the year resulted in foreign currency exchange losses. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Trend Information—Inflation and Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Fluctuations.” and “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Trend Information—Effect of Inflation and Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Fluctuations on Total Comprehensive Financing Result.” Changes in the value of the peso to the U.S. dollar also have an effect on our results of operations. In general, a devaluation of the peso results in an increase of our operating margins, and an appreciation of the peso results in a decrease in our operating margins, in each case, when measured in pesos. This is because the aggregate amount of our consolidated net sales denominated in or linked to U.S. dollars exceeds the aggregate amount of our costs of goods sold and our general, administrative and selling expenses denominated in or linked to U.S. dollars. “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Trend Information—Effect of Inflation and Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Fluctuations on Total Comprehensive Financing Result.” A substantial portion of the sales generated by our Mexican and U.S. subsidiaries are either denominated in or linked to the value of the U.S. dollar. The prices of a significant number of the products we sell in Mexico, in particular those of flat glass for automotive uses and capital goods are linked to the U.S. dollar. In addition, substantially all of our export sales are invoiced in U.S. dollars and subsequently translated into pesos using the exchange rate in effect at the date of the transaction. Further, a strong peso relative to the U.S. dollar makes the Mexican market more attractive for importers and competitors that might not otherwise sell in the Mexican market. A strong peso relative to the U.S. dollar also makes those of our products whose prices are denominated in or are linked to the value of the U.S. dollar less competitive or profitable. When the peso appreciates, with respect to such products, we must either increase our prices in U.S. dollars, which make our products less price-competitive, or bear reduced operating margins when measured in pesos. Given the competitive nature of the industries in which we operate, in the past, our operating margins have been reduced for such products in response to appreciation of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar. The sales generated by our Spanish subsidiary are either denominated in or linked to the value of the euro, while its cost of goods sold is denominated in or linked to U.S. dollars. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar to the euro may have an adverse effect on us in a similar fashion to those described with respect to the value of the peso above. We may be adversely affected by increases in natural gas prices, interest rates or foreign exchange rate changes that we are unable to mitigate through derivative transactions due to our financial condition. Some of our components of our costs of goods sold are subject to market price variations, especially energy costs which represented 18% of our consolidated cost of goods sold in 2008. Such cost is directly linked to the price of natural gas which has experienced significant volatility in recent years. Since the price of natural gas in Mexico is tied to the price of natural gas in Southern Texas, which in turn is fully exposed to market factors such as demand in the United States or the amount of available natural gas reserves, we are exposed to such price variations. Interest rate risk exists primarily with respect to our floating-rate peso and dollar-denominated debt, which generally bear interest based on the Mexican equilibrium interbank interest rate, which we refer to as the “TIIE,” or the London interbank offered rate, which we refer to as “LIBOR”. If the TIIE or LIBOR rates increase significantly, our ability to service our debt will be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2008, our floating-rate peso and dollar-denominated debt amounted to Ps. 550 million ($40 million) and Ps. 2,079 million ($150 million), respectively. 9 Table of Contents Because our net sales and a significant portion of our operations are denominated in the Mexican peso and the U.S. dollar, our business is subject to adverse effects of foreign exchange rate fluctuations. These fluctuations may result from changes in economic conditions, investor sentiment, monetary and fiscal policies, the liquidity of global markets, international and regional political events, and acts of war or terrorism. In addition, the fluctuation of the foreign exchange rate may adversely affect our floating-rate peso and dollar-denominated debt and distributions. In the ordinary course of our business, historically we have entered into swaps and other derivative instruments to hedge our exposure to increases in natural gas price, interest rates or foreign exchange rates. As of May 31, 2009, however, the only hedging arrangements to which we remain subject consist in a liability of $45 million of natural gas hedges with Pemex. Because of our current financial condition, we are currently unable to enter into hedging transactions to further minimize our exposure to increases in natural gas prices, interest rates or foreign exchange rates, and were we able to enter into such transactions, we could not assure you they would be on favorable terms. Therefore, increases in the price of natural gas, interest rates or exchange rates may cause us to realize significant losses in our results of operations. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” We have to pay interest and principal on our dollar-denominated debt with revenues generated in pesos or other currencies, as we do not generate sufficient revenue in dollars from our operations. As of March 31, 2009, 93% of our outstanding debt was denominated in dollars. This debt must be serviced by funds generated from sales by our subsidiaries. We do not generate sufficient revenues in dollars from our operations to service our entire dollar denominated debt. Consequently, we have to use revenues generated in pesos or other currencies to service our dollar denominated debt. A devaluation of the peso against the dollar could adversely affect our ability to service our debt. We operate in a highly competitive industry in which we compete with global competitors and vertically integrated customers, have relatively high fixed costs and are faced with sharply decreasing demands. Historically, aggressive investment by our global competitors such as Compagnie de Saint Gobain (“Saint Gobain”) and Guardian Industries Corporation (“Guardian”), and vertically integrated customers with glass manufacturing facilities in Mexico, coupled with the increased imports of low-cost competitive products into several of our important markets, has resulted in an increase in capacity that has brought significant pricing pressure on our products, particularly in our Flat Glass construction market where the industry is faced with over-capacity. Similarly, our competitors may make new investments in Mexico in the glass containers market. Loss of existing or future market share to competitors or customers in any of our business units may adversely affect our performance and, to the extent that one or more of our competitors becomes more successful than us with respect to any key competitive factor, our results of operations, financial position and liquidity may be adversely affected. Our operations have relatively high fixed costs relating to equipment purchases and employee costs. Customer financial difficulties have resulted, and could result in the future, in sharp decreases in demand and we may be unable to adjust our cost structure in a timely manner to compensate for shortfalls in sales. If current and anticipated customers do not place orders with us in accordance with our expectations or at all, it may be difficult to plan our capacity which cannot be altered easily. If our capacity does not match our customer demand, we will be burdened with expensive and unutilized overcapacity which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We face intense competition from other glass container producers, as well as from makers of alternative forms of packaging. We face competition from other glass container producers, as well as from makers of alternative forms of packaging, such as aluminum cans and plastic containers. We compete with each rigid packaging competitor on the basis of price, quality, service and the marketing attributes of the container. Advantages or disadvantages in any of these competitive factors may be sufficient to cause the customer to consider changing suppliers and/or using an alternative form of packaging. We also compete with manufacturers of non-rigid packaging alternatives, including flexible pouches and aseptic cartons, in serving the packaging needs of, among others, juice and food customers. 10 Table of Contents Difficult market conditions in the automotive industry may affect our operating margins and results of operations. The North American automotive industry continues to face difficult market conditions. North American automobile manufacturers have experienced slower demand and increased pricing pressures on their products. These difficult market conditions in the automotive industry may continue to lead to additional pricing pressure on our products and may lead to loss of sales volume, either of which may have an adverse effect on us. In addition, the automotive industry has experienced pressures due to increased oil prices which could decrease of our original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) business sales, as the U.S. demand in the automobile sector has declined. Certain of our flat glass products sold to OEMs in the automotive industry are sold under global purchase agreements, which are entered into after completion of a bidding process. Such automotive OEMs have significant buying power which, coupled with substantial competition, puts pressure on prices and margins relating to products supplied under the global purchase agreements. As a result, even if we were awarded the right to sell to an automotive OEM under a global purchase agreement, we may sell at operating margins that are lower than margins generally achievable from sales to other flat glass customers. The automotive OEM business line represented 9% of our consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2007 and 2008. Inflation fluctuations may have an adverse effect on our total comprehensive financing result. Our total comprehensive financing results includes net interest expense, the net effect of inflation on our monetary assets and liabilities (which, as discussed below, applies only for inflationary environments beginning on January 1, 2008 according to the new NIF B-10, “Effects of Inflation”), the net effect of changes in nominal foreign currency exchange rates on monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and gains or losses related to some of our derivative transactions. Inflation has historically affected our total comprehensive financing result. During periods of inflation, the principal amount of our monetary debt will generally be reduced in real terms by the rate of inflation. The amount of such reduction will result in a gain from monetary position. This gain is offset by the reduction in real terms in the value of the monetary assets we held during such period. Historically, our monetary liabilities have exceeded our monetary assets and, thus, we have tended to experience monetary gains during periods of inflation. Declining levels of inflation in recent years have resulted in lower monetary gains. The new NIF B-10, which became effective for fiscal years beginning on January 1, 2008, provides that, in non-inflationary environments (when cumulative inflation of the three preceding years is less than 26%), no inflationary effects should be recognized in a company’s financial statements. Given the cumulative inflation in Mexico for the three years periods ended December 31, 2007 and 2008, the Mexican economic environment did not qualify as inflationary in 2008 or 2009. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Inflation and Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Fluctuations”. If cumulative inflation over a three year period reaches levels greater than 26% in future periods, we will be required to include inflation adjustments in our financial information, which could have an adverse effect on our total comprehensive financing result. The costs of complying with environmental protection and health and safety laws, and any liabilities arising there under, may increase and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We are subject to various environmental protection, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use, remediation, disposal and transportation of hazardous materials, the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water, and the health and safety of our employees. 11 Table of Contents We are also required to obtain permits from governmental authorities for certain operations. We cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with such laws, regulations and permits. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. We could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances or other environmental damage. Since 1998, we have been participating in a voluntary audit program at our Mexican facilities. As a result of audits by and implementation of certain measures suggested by the Procuraduría Federal de Protección al Ambiente (“PROFEPA”), action plans are entered into, and costs are incurred, to make environmental investments and improvements required for PROFEPA Clean Industry certification. Environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. While we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with environmental laws, we cannot assure you that environmental laws will not change or become more stringent in the future. Therefore, we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current and future environmental, health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances will not adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. See “