RISK FACTORS RELATING TO US We have high interest payment requirements. On February 1, 2007, we completed a major refinancing program by virtue of which we refinanced substantially all of our indebtedness under improved terms and conditions. See “Item 3. Key Information— Recent Developments—New Perspectives” and “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financing Transactions.” Although the refinancing program reduced our interest expense and extended our debt maturities, we continue to have high interest payment requirements. As of December 31, 2007, our total consolidated indebtedness was Ps. 14,918 million ($1,373 million) and our consolidated off-balance sheet financings, related to our receivable securitization and sale of receivable transactions, were Ps. 1,509 million ($139 million). Our interest expense on debt for the year ended December 31, 2007 was Ps. 1,696 million ($156 million), while our operating income was Ps. 2,704 million ($249 million). After the refinancing program, our average interest rate was reduced. Our ability to make scheduled interest payments when due depends on, and is subject to, several factors, including our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors. The amount of our interest payment requirements could adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including but not limited to, the following: • we may have less cash available to expand and improve our business, since we are required to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of interest on our debt; • our ability to obtain additional debt financing may be limited and the terms on which such financing is obtained may be negatively affected; and • our ability to compete effectively against better-capitalized competitors and to withstand downturns in our business may be affected since a significant portion of our cash flow from operations is required to be dedicated to making interest payments. As a result, we may lose market share and experience lower sales, which, in turn, could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our indentures contain certain restrictive covenants. Our current indentures that govern the terms of our indebtedness contain certain restrictive covenants that are customary for similar indebtedness. Such covenants include restrictions on our ability to (i) incur additional indebtedness unless, at the time of incurrence, we satisfy certain conditions, (ii) pay dividends above a certain permitted amount or make other restricted payments, (iii) grant certain liens on our assets, (iv) make certain investments, and (v) take part in certain merger, consolidation, and asset sale transactions. 3 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2007, under the covenants of our current indentures, we are prohibited from incurring additional debt (other than certain permitted exceptions) and from making certain investments (other than certain permitted investments). The restrictions in our indentures could limit our flexibility to adjust to changes in our business and the industries in which we operate and/or limit our ability to fund future operations, acquisitions or meet extraordinary capital needs. We have to pay interest and principal on our dollar-denominated debt with revenues generated in pesos or other currencies, as we do not generate sufficient revenue in dollars from our operations. As of March 31, 2008, 96% of our outstanding debt was denominated in dollars. This debt must be serviced by funds generated from sales by our subsidiaries. We do not generate sufficient revenues in dollars from our operations to service our entire dollar denominated debt. Consequently, we have to use revenues generated in pesos or other currencies to service our dollar denominated debt. A devaluation of the peso against the dollar could adversely affect our ability to service our debt. As of March 31, 2008, we have entered into swap arrangements under which all interest payments, until 2012, on $500 million principal amount of our outstanding debt were swapped from a fixed dollar rate to a variable peso rate and interest payments on another $500 million principal amount of our outstanding debt were swapped from a fixed dollar rate to a fixed peso rate. In the ordinary course of business, we also enter into currency swap and option agreements to hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate variations. We cannot assure that in the future these instruments will be available on favorable terms to us, if at all, to fully hedge our exposure. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” We have experienced rising operating costs in our businesses. Some of the components of our cost of goods sold are subject to market price variations. For instance, our total energy cost represented 15% of our consolidated cost of goods sold in 2007. Such cost is directly linked to the price of natural gas which has experienced significant increases in recent years due to, among other things, the effects of hurricanes in the production area of the Gulf of Mexico. NYMEX natural gas prices have increased from an average price of $3.22 per million British Thermal Units (“MMBTU”), during 2003 to an average price of $7.12 per MMBTU during 2007, representing an increase of 120%. Since the price of natural gas in Mexico is tied to the price of natural gas in Southern Texas, which in turn is fully exposed to market factors such as demand in the United States or the amount of available natural gas reserves, we are exposed to such price variations. Other potential sources of significant variations in our costs are packaging and freight costs. Our cost of goods sold is sensitive to the price of natural gas. Every dollar fluctuation per MMBTU has had an annual impact of approximately $20 million on our cost of goods sold based on our average historical consumption of approximately 1.7 million MMBTUs per month. The closing price of natural gas on the New York Mercantile Exchange (“NYMEX”) as of June 23, 2008 was $13.20 per MMBTU. We have not been able to raise the prices of our products to fully reflect the increases in our operating costs and therefore our results of operations could be adversely affected by continued high prices of natural gas. In the ordinary course of business, we enter into forwards and other derivatives agreements to hedge our exposure to natural gas price variations. However, we cannot assure you that these instruments will be available on favorable terms to us, if at all, to fully hedge our exposure to such variations. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” We continue to experience competition from our global competitors and vertically integrated customers. Historically, aggressive investment by our global competitors such as Compagnie de Saint Gobain (“Saint Gobain”) and Guardian Industries Corporation (“Guardian”), and vertically integrated customers with glass manufacturing facilities in Mexico, coupled with the increased imports of low-cost competitive products into several of our important markets, has resulted in an increase in capacity that has brought significant pricing pressure on our products, particularly in our Flat Glass construction market where the industry is faced with over-capacity. Similarly, our competitors may make new investments in Mexico in the glass containers market. Loss of existing or future market share to competitors or customers in any of our business units may adversely affect our performance and, to the extent that one or more of our competitors becomes more successful than us with respect to any key competitive factor, our results of operations, financial position and liquidity may be adversely affected. 4 Table of Contents Difficult market conditions in the automotive industry may affect our operating margins and results of operations. The North American automotive industry continues to face difficult market conditions. North American automobile manufacturers have experienced slower demand and increased pricing pressures on their products. These difficult market conditions in the automotive industry may continue to lead to additional pricing pressure on our products and may lead to loss of sales volume, either of which may have an adverse effect on us. In addition, the automotive industry has experienced pressures due to increased oil prices which could decrease of our original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) business sales, as the U.S. demand in the automobile sector has declined. Certain of our flat glass products sold to OEMs in the automotive industry are sold under global purchase agreements, which are entered into after completion of a bidding process. Such automotive OEMs have significant buying power which, coupled with substantial competition, puts pressure on prices and margins relating to products supplied under the global purchase agreements. As a result, even if we were awarded the right to sell to an automotive OEM under a global purchase agreement, we may sell at operating margins that are lower than margins generally achievable from sales to other flat glass customers. The automotive OEM business line represented 8% of our consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 9% for the year ended December 31, 2007. We have customers that are significant to us and the loss of all or a portion of their business would have an adverse effect on us. Because of the relative importance of our largest customers, our business is exposed to a certain degree of risk related to customer concentration. Although no single customer accounted for more than 8% of our consolidated net sales in 2007, we have customers that are significant to our business units. Our three largest customers, who serve different markets, accounted for an aggregate of 14% of our consolidated net sales in 2007. Given that our profitability depends on our maintenance of a high capacity utilization rate, the loss of all or a portion of the sales volume from a significant customer would have an adverse effect on us. Among our most significant customers are automotive OEMs and beer and soft-drink bottlers. One of our main customers has vertically integrated operations and therefore, a capacity increase in its glass production could adversely affect our results of operations. Downturns in the economies in which we operate may negatively affect the demand for our products and our results of operations. Demand for our flat glass and glass containers products is affected by general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate, principally Mexico, the United States and Europe. As a result, demand for our products and, consequently, our results of operations have been and may be negatively affected by the downturn in the economies in which we operate. A downturn in the Mexican economy, from which we derived 43% and 44% of our consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 2007, respectively, would reduce the demand for our products and negatively impact our results of operations. Similarly, a prolonged economic downturn in the United States, from which we derived 43% and 37% of our consolidated net sales in 2006 and 2007, respectively, would have an adverse impact on the export and foreign subsidiary sales of our Flat Glass and Glass Containers business units. Furthermore, in recent years, economic conditions in Mexico have become increasingly correlated to economic conditions in the United States. Therefore, adverse economic conditions in the United States could have a significant adverse effect on the Mexican economy. Also, in the past, economic crises in Asia, Russia, Brazil, Argentina and other countries have adversely affected the Mexican economy and therefore our results of operations. Economic downturns in Mexico and the United States may also subject us to increased foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate risks and impair our results of operations and our ability to raise capital or service our debt. 5 Table of Contents Inflation fluctuations may have an adverse effect on our total comprehensive financing result. Our total comprehensive financing results includes net interest expense, the net effect of inflation on our monetary assets and liabilities (which, as discussed below, applies only for inflationary environments beginning on January 1, 2008 according to the new Mexican FRS B-10, “Effects of Inflation”), the net effect of changes in nominal foreign currency exchange rates on monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and gains or losses related to some of our derivative transactions. Inflation has historically affected our total comprehensive financing result. During periods of inflation, the principal amount of our monetary debt will generally be reduced in real terms by the rate of inflation. The amount of such reduction will result in a gain from monetary position. This gain is offset by the reduction in real terms in the value of the monetary assets we held during such period. Historically, our monetary liabilities have exceeded our monetary assets and, thus, we have tended to experience monetary gains during periods of inflation. Declining levels of inflation in recent years have resulted in lower monetary gains. The new Mexican FRS B-10, which became effective for fiscal years beginning on January 1, 2008, provides that, in non-inflationary environments (when cumulative inflation of the three preceding years is less than 26%), no inflationary effects should be recognized in a company’s financial statements. Given the cumulative inflation in Mexico for the three years ended December 31, 2007, the Mexican economic environment will not qualify as inflationary in 2008, thereby eliminating inflationary accounting in our consolidated financial statements. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Trend Information—Inflation and Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Fluctuations” and “—New Accounting Pronouncements”. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may have an adverse effect on our total comprehensive financial result. Our total comprehensive financing result is impacted by changes in the nominal value of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar. Foreign currency exchange gains or losses included in our total financing cost result primarily from the impact of nominal changes in the U.S. dollar-peso exchange rate on our Mexican subsidiaries’ U.S. dollar-denominated monetary liabilities (such as U.S. dollar-denominated debt and accounts payable arising from imports of raw materials and equipment) and assets (such as U.S. dollar-denominated cash, cash equivalents and accounts receivable). Because our U.S. dollar-denominated monetary liabilities have historically been significantly in excess of our U.S. dollar-denominated monetary assets, the nominal devaluation or appreciation of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar has historically resulted in foreign currency exchange losses and gains, respectively. Accordingly, in 2003, 2006 and 2007, the nominal devaluation of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar during the year resulted in foreign currency exchange losses. The nominal appreciation of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar resulted in a foreign currency exchange gain in 2004 and 2005. In May 2004, with the unwinding of certain currency exchange swaps we recorded a net exchange loss. As of March 31, 2008, we have entered into swap arrangements under which all interest payments, until 2012, on $500 million principal amount of our outstanding debt were swapped from a fixed dollar rate to a variable peso rate and interest payments on another $500 million principal amount of our outstanding debt were swapped from a fixed dollar rate to a fixed peso rate. In the ordinary course of business, we also enter into currency swap and option agreements to hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate variations. We cannot assure you that these instruments or other currency swap and option agreements will be available at favorable terms to us, if at all, to fully hedge our exposure. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Changes in the value of the peso to the U.S. dollar and the Euro may have an adverse effect on us. Changes in the value of the peso to the U.S. dollar have an effect on our results of operations. In general, as described more fully in the following paragraphs, a real devaluation of the peso will likely result in an increase of our operating margins and a real appreciation of the peso will likely result in a decrease in our operating margins, in each case, when measured in pesos. This is so because the aggregate amount of our consolidated net sales denominated in or linked to U.S. dollars exceeds the aggregate amount of our costs of goods sold and our general, administrative and selling expenses denominated in or linked to U.S. dollars. 6 Table of Contents A substantial portion of the sales generated by our Mexican and U.S. subsidiaries are either denominated in or linked to the value of the U.S. dollar. The prices of a significant number of the products we sell in Mexico, in particular those of flat glass for automotive uses, capital goods and packaging products are linked to the U.S. dollar. In addition, substantially all of our export sales are invoiced in U.S. dollars and subsequently translated into pesos using the exchange rate in effect at the time of the transaction. Further, a strong peso relative to the U.S. dollar makes the Mexican market more attractive for importers and competitors that might not otherwise sell in the Mexican market. A strong peso relative to the U.S. dollar also makes those of our products whose prices are denominated in or are linked to the value of the U.S. dollar less competitive or profitable. When the peso appreciates in real terms, with respect to such products, we must either increase our prices in U.S. dollars, which make our products less price-competitive, or bear reduced operating margins when measured in pesos. Given the competitive nature of the industries in which we operate, in the past we have had to reduce our operating margins for such products in response to appreciation of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar. The sales generated by our Spanish subsidiary in our European operations are either denominated in or linked to the value of the Euro, while its cost of goods sold is denominated in or linked to U.S. dollars. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar to the Euro may have an adverse effect on us in a similar fashion to those described with respect to the value of the peso above. We may be adversely affected by increases in interest rates. Interest rate risk exists primarily with respect to our floating-rate peso and dollar-denominated debt, which generally bear interest based on the Mexican equilibrium interbank interest rate, which we refer to as the “TIIE,” or the London interbank offered rate, which we refer to as “LIBOR”. If the TIIE or LIBOR rates increase significantly, our ability to service our debt will be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2007, our floating-rate peso and dollar-denominated debt amounted to Ps. 366 million and $34 million. As of March 31, 2008, we entered into swap arrangements under which all interest payments, until 2012, on $500 million principal amount of our outstanding debt were swapped from a fixed dollar rate to a variable peso rate. We cannot assure you that these instruments will continue to be favorable to us or if other instruments will be available at favorable terms to us, if at all, to fully hedge our exposure. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” The costs of complying with environmental protection and health and safety laws, and any liabilities arising thereunder, may increase and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We are subject to various environmental protection, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use, remediation, disposal and transportation of hazardous materials, the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water, and the health and safety of our employees. We are also required to obtain permits from governmental authorities for certain operations. We cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with such laws, regulations and permits. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. We could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances or other environmental damage. Since 1998, we have been participating in a voluntary audit program at our Mexican facilities. As a result of audits by and implementation of certain measures suggested by the Procuraduría Federal de Protección al Ambiente (“PROFEPA”), action plans are entered into, and costs are incurred, to make environmental investments and improvements required for PROFEPA Clean Industry certification. 7 Table of Contents Environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. While we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with environmental laws, we cannot assure you that environmental laws will not change or become more stringent in the future. Therefore, we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current and future environmental, health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances will not adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. See “