ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In evaluating the Company’s business, readers should carefully consider the business risks discussed in this section in addition to the other information presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC. Deterioration in general economic conditions has caused and could cause additional decreases or delays in spending by customers and could harm our ability to generate revenues and our results of operations. The state of the global economy and availability of capital has and could further impact the spending patterns of existing and potential future customers. Any reduction in spending by, or loss of, existing or potential future customers would cause revenues to decline. Further, it may be difficult to adjust expenses and capital expenditures quickly enough to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall. eDiscovery software and service revenues are derived from the sale of eDiscovery projects in response to regulatory inquires or litigation received by our clients which could be impacted by economic conditions. Software license and maintenance purchases tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns. Since most revenues are derived from sales of eDiscovery projects and software licenses, the current deterioration in economic conditions has caused and could cause additional decreases in or delays in client spending and is likely to reduce revenues and negatively impact our short-term ability to grow revenues. Further, any decreased collectability of accounts receivable or early termination of agreements due to the current deterioration in economic conditions could negatively impact our results of operations. The failure of the legal community to adopt eDiscovery solutions could negatively affect future sales of our Daegis eDiscovery Platform, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The widespread adoption of eDiscovery best practices will require a shift in the way the legal community approaches discovery of electronic documents and other electronically stored data. Currently, most large scale electronic discovery projects are conducted by outsourced service providers that manually retrieve documents from each computer subject to review. These service providers have longstanding and entrenched relationships with the corporations that are subject to large-scale discovery inquiries or security breaches and the large law firms that are typically retained in connection with such discovery projects. Corporations and law firms may continue to prefer to use service providers because of these ongoing established relationships, and because the service providers are widely known and accepted within the legal community, and may resist adoption of our eDiscovery solutions. Moreover, the expense of relying on an outsourced service provider may frequently be covered by the corporation’s insurance policy that is otherwise covering the expense of the litigation, including complying with requests for discovery, while implementation of our eDiscovery products would require a significant unreimbursed capital expenditure by the corporation. The failure of corporations and law firms to adopt our eDiscovery products could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. The exercise price of certain warrants may be substantially below the market price of our stock at the time of exercise which could potentially have a negative impact on our stock price. In conjunction with the acquisition of Gupta Technologies LLC in November 2006, we issued 670,000 warrants and as of April 30, 2012, 435,994 warrants remained outstanding, which are exercisable at fixed exercise prices ranging from $1.35 per share to $1.90 per share. Subject to certain exceptions, these conversion ratios and exercise prices are subject to downward adjustment in the event we issue additional shares of common stock at prices below the then-current or exercise price. Exercise of the warrants is only likely to occur at such time as the exercise price, as the case may be, is lower than the current market price for our stock. Issuance of common stock at a price below our current market price would have a dilutive effect on current stockholders and could potentially have a negative impact on our stock price. In conjunction with private placement issuance of common stock shares in April 2004, we issued 190,182 warrants and as of April 30, 2012, 190,182 warrants remained outstanding, which are exercisable at a fixed exercise price of $2.75 per share. Subject to certain exceptions, these conversion ratios and exercise prices are subject to downward adjustment in the event we issue additional shares of common stock at prices below the then-current or exercise price. Exercise of the warrants is only likely to occur at such time as the exercise price, as the case may be, is lower than the current market price for our stock. Issuance of common stock at a price below our current market price would have a dilutive effect on current stockholders and could potentially have a negative impact on our stock price. 13 In conjunction with the acquisition of Daegis in June 2010, we obtained debt financing and issued 718,860 warrants and as of April 30, 2012, 718,860 warrants remained outstanding, which are exercisable at a fixed exercise price of $2.45 per share. Subject to certain exceptions, these exercise prices are subject to downward adjustment in the event we issue additional shares of common stock at prices below the then-current exercise price. Exercise of the warrants is only likely to occur at such time as the exercise price is lower than the current market price for our stock. Issuance of common stock at a price below our current market price would have a dilutive effect on current stockholders and could potentially have a negative impact on our stock price. If we default on any secured loan, all or a portion of our assets could be subject to forfeiture. On June 30, 2011, the Company entered into the Revolving Credit and Term Loan Agreement with Wells Fargo Bank (the “Wells Fargo Credit Agreement”). Under the Wells Fargo Credit Agreement, we granted to Wells Fargo a first priority security interest in substantially all of our assets. If we default on the Wells Fargo Credit Agreement and are unable to cure the default pursuant to the terms of the agreement, our lender could take possession of any or all assets in which it holds a security interest, including intellectual property, and dispose of those assets to the extent necessary to pay off the debts, which could seriously harm our business. Furthermore, we may enter into other secured credit or loan agreements in the future. Our debt agreements contain certain restrictions that may limit our ability to operate our business. The agreements governing our debt contain, and any other future debt agreement we enter into may contain, restrictive covenants that limit our ability to operate our business, including but not limited to, in each case subject to certain exceptions, restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, grant liens, consolidate, merge or sell our assets unless specified conditions are met, acquire other business organizations, make investments, redeem or repurchase our stock, and change the nature of our business. In addition, our debt agreements contain financial covenants and additional affirmative and negative covenants. Our ability to comply with these covenants is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions. If we are not able to comply with all of these covenants for any reason and we have debt outstanding at the time of such failure, some or all of our outstanding debt could become immediately due and payable and the incurrence of additional debt under the credit facilities provided by the debt agreements would not be allowed. If our cash is utilized to repay any outstanding debt, depending on the amount of debt outstanding, we could experience an immediate and significant reduction in working capital available to operate our business. As a result of these covenants, our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us, such as strategic acquisitions or joint ventures. We are subject to intense competition. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience intense competition from current and future competitors including EMC, IBM, Microsoft, Oracle, and Symantec. Often, these competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than Daegis, in addition to having greater name recognition and more extensive customer bases. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. In addition, current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, thereby increasing the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among current and new competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share. Such competition could adversely affect our ability to sell additional licenses and maintenance and support renewals on terms favorable to us. Further, competitive pressures could require us to reduce the price of our products and related services, which could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competition, and the failure to do so would have an adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. 14 We may be adversely affected by the loss of one or more of our larger customers. Some of our key customers account for a large portion of our revenue. While we have longstanding relationships with many of our customers, if any of our key customers were to significantly reduce their purchases from us, our results of operations would be adversely affected. While sales to major customers may vary from period to period, a major customer that permanently discontinues or significantly reduces its relationship with us could be difficult to replace. For the year ended April 30, 2012, one customer accounted for 23% of consolidated revenues. The customer constituted 24% of consolidated accounts receivable at April 30, 2012. For the year ended April 30, 2011, we had one customer that accounted for 15% of consolidated revenues and another customer that accounted for 14% of consolidated revenues. Those customers constituted 28% and 5%, respectively, of consolidated accounts receivable at April 30, 2011. For the year ended April 30, 2010, we had one customer that accounted for 14% of consolidated revenues and one customer that accounted for 11% of consolidated revenues. The eDiscovery business is project or matter based resulting in unpredictable revenue. The eDiscovery segment derives its revenues from providing services for legal matters received from its customers and from hosting fees for holding data that has been processed. The timing of legal matters is project based and the receipt of these projects is difficult to predict and the related revenue for this segment is difficult to forecast. The eDiscovery customer contracts are month to month such that there is no assurance as to the length of time that we may receive revenue from a customer. Revenue from our eDiscovery segment can fluctuate significantly in a short time frame for a number of reasons including; a legal matter is settled and the project ends, a customer has a reduction in legal matters, a customer decides to have future legal matters processed by another eDiscovery vendor. Customers can also request their data be removed from our servers with little notice such that our hosting revenue could also be adversely impacted quickly. The markets in which we compete are subject to rapid technological change. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent introductions of new and enhanced products, changes in customer demands and evolving industry standards. The introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to address the increasingly sophisticated needs of customers by developing new product functionality and enhancements that keep pace with technological developments, emerging industry standards and customer requirements. There can be no assurance that our products will continue to be perceived by our customers as technologically advantageous or that we will not experience difficulties that delay or prevent the sale of enhancements to existing products that meet with a significant degree of market acceptance. If the release dates of any future product enhancements, or new products are delayed, or if when released, they fail to achieve market acceptance, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. We are dependent on indirect sales channels. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from indirect sales channels, including ISVs, VARs and distributors. ISVs, VARs and distributors accounted for approximately 54%, 55% and 45% of our software license revenues for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our success therefore depends in part upon the performance of our indirect sales channels, over which we have limited influence. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth in the future depends in part on maintaining and expanding our indirect sales channels worldwide. The loss of any major partners, either to competitive products offered by other companies or to products developed internally by those partners, or the failure to attract effective new partners, could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. 15 There are numerous risks associated with our international operations and sales. Revenues derived from our international customers accounted for 32%, 28% and 50% of our total revenues, with the remainder from North America, in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. If the revenues generated by our international operations are not adequate to offset the expense of maintaining such operations, our overall business, operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to successfully market, sell and deliver our products in these markets. Although we have had international operations for a number of years, there are certain unique business challenges and risks inherent in doing business outside of North America, and such challenges and risks can vary from region to region. These include unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; export restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; longer payment cycles; problems in collecting accounts receivable; political instability; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe and other parts of the world; unfamiliar or unusual business practices; and potentially adverse tax consequences, any of which could adversely impact the success of our international operations. There can be no assurance that one or more of these factors will not have an adverse effect on our future international operations and, consequently, on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the Company’s subsidiaries and distributors in Europe and Asia Pacific operate in local currencies. If the value of the U.S. dollar increases relative to foreign currencies, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our stock price may be subject to volatility. The Company’s common stock price has been and is likely to continue to be subject to significant volatility. A variety of factors could cause the price of the common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including: announcements of developments related to our business; fluctuations in the operating results and order levels of Daegis or its competitors; general conditions in the computer industry or the worldwide economy; announcements of technological innovations; new products or product enhancements from us or our competitors; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; developments in patent, copyright or other intellectual property rights; and developments in our relationships with our customers, distributors and suppliers; legal proceedings brought against the Company or its officers; and significant changes in our senior management team. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general, and the market for shares of equity securities of many high technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. Such fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Beginning on August 25, 2008, the Company’s stock started trading on the NASDAQ. Prior to being traded on the NASDAQ, the Company’s stock was traded over-the-counter on the “bulletin board”. Even though our stock is now traded on the NASDAQ, we do not receive any analyst coverage, our stock is thinly traded and our stock is considered to be micro-cap stock. Our stock is therefore subject to greater price volatility than larger companies whose stock trades more actively. Our quarterly operating results may be subject to fluctuations and seasonal variability. The Company’s quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past and we expect that they could vary significantly in the future. Such variations could result from the following factors: the size and timing of significant orders and their fulfillment; demand for our products; the quantity, timing and significance of our product enhancements and new product announcements or those of our competitors; our ability to attract and retain key employees; seasonality; changes in our pricing or our competitors’; realignments of our organizational structure; changes in the level of our operating expenses; incurrence of extraordinary operating expenses, changes in our sales incentive plans; budgeting cycles of our customers; customer order deferrals in anticipation of enhancements or new products offered by us or our competitors; product life cycles; product defects and other product quality problems; currency fluctuations; and general domestic and international economic and political conditions. Due to the foregoing factors, quarterly revenues and operating results may vary on a quarterly basis. Revenues and quarterly results may vary because software technology is rapidly evolving, and our sales cycle, from initial evaluation to purchase and the providing of maintenance services, can be lengthy and vary substantially from customer to customer. Because we normally deliver products within a short time of receiving an order, we typically do not have a backlog of orders. As a result, to achieve our quarterly revenue objectives, we are dependent upon obtaining orders in any given quarter for shipment in that quarter. Furthermore, because many customers place orders toward the end of a fiscal quarter, we generally recognize a substantial portion of our software license revenues at the end of a quarter. Our expense levels largely reflect our expectations for future revenue and are therefore somewhat fixed in the short term. 16 We expect that our operating results will continue to be affected by the continually challenging IT economic environment as well as by seasonal trends. In particular, we anticipate relatively weaker demand in the fiscal quarters ending July 31 and October 31 as a result of reduced business activity in Europe during the summer months. Our products are subject to lengthy sales cycles. Our eDiscovery solutions are used to implement governance and matter driven requirements and involve legal, IT and risk management departments. Our database, archive and migration solutions are used to implement comprehensive solutions including complete technology platform transitions and new applications. The delivery of our database, archive and migration solutions generally involves a four to ten week implementation time and a significant commitment of management attention and resources by prospective customers. Accordingly, our sales cycle is subject to delays associated with the long approval process that typically accompanies significant initiatives or capital expenditures. Our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected if customers reduce or delay orders. There can be no assurance that we will not continue to experience these and additional delays in the future. Such delays may contribute to significant fluctuations of quarterly operating results in the future and may adversely affect those results. Our software products could contain defects and could be subject to potential release delays. Software products frequently contain errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. There can be no assurance that, despite testing by us and current and potential customers, defects and errors will not be found in current versions, new versions or enhancements after commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of revenues, delay in market acceptance, or unexpected re-programming costs, which could have an adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, if the release dates of any future Daegis product line additions or enhancements are delayed or if, when released, they fail to achieve market acceptance, our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows would be adversely affected. Our products and services may be subject to liability claims which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any failure by our products or in the performance of services could result in liability claims against us which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance, industry reputation and ability to market new products. For certain of our customers, we enter into “Service Level Agreements” that require us to perform at certain defined levels such that any failure to do so could subject us to significant penalties or litigation. We maintain insurance to protect against claims associated with the use of our products and services as well as liability limitation language in our agreements, but there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage or contractual language would adequately cover any claim asserted against us. A successful claim brought against us in excess of or outside of our insurance coverage could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even unsuccessful claims could result in our expenditure of funds for litigation and management time and resources. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to claims related to the products and services we provide, that such claims will not result in liability in excess of our insurance coverage, that our insurance will cover such claims or that appropriate insurance will continue to be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates. Such claims could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely upon technology from certain third-party suppliers. Daegis is dependent on third-party suppliers for software which is embedded in some of its products. We believe that the functionality provided by software which is licensed from third parties is obtainable from multiple sources or could be developed by the Company. However, if any such third-party licenses were terminated, or not renewed, or if these third parties fail to develop new products in a timely manner, we could be required to develop an alternative approach to developing such products, which could require payment of additional fees to third parties or internal development costs and delays that might not be successful in providing the same level of functionality. Such delays, increased costs or reduced functionality could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 17 We may be subject to violations of our intellectual property rights. Daegis relies on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, non-disclosure agreements and other intellectual property protection methods to protect its proprietary technology. Despite our efforts to protect proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and while we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our technology exists, piracy can be expected to be a persistent problem. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. There can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate and, to the extent such rights are not adequate, other companies could independently develop similar products using similar technology. Although there are no pending lawsuits against us regarding infringement of any existing patents or other intellectual property rights, and we have received no notices that we are infringing or allegedly infringing the intellectual property rights of others, there can be no assurance that such infringement claims will not be asserted by third parties in the future. If any such claims are asserted, there can be no assurance that we will be able to defend such claim or if necessary obtain licenses on reasonable terms. Our involvement in any patent dispute or other intellectual property dispute or action to protect trade secrets and know-how may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Adverse determinations in any litigation may subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require that we seek licenses from third parties and prevent us from developing and selling our products. Any of these situations could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our success is dependent upon the retention of key personnel and we may be unable to retain key employees. Our future performance depends on the continued service of key technical, sales and senior management personnel. With the exception of the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer and Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, there are no other Daegis technical, sales, executive or senior management personnel bound by an employment agreement. The loss of the services of one or more of our officers or other key employees could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may fail to retain our key technical, sales and managerial employees, or attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel in the future. System failures caused by events beyond our control could adversely affect computer equipment and electronic data on which our operations depend. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and the electronic data stored in our databases from damage by, among other things, earthquake, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failures, unauthorized intrusion and other catastrophic events. While we continue to improve our disaster recovery processes, system failures and other interruptions in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have a redundant data center with the intent to mitigate these risks, however, it is located in a similar geographic area and a large scale disaster could potentially disrupt both facilities. 18 Our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting may not be effective to detect all errors or to detect and deter wrongdoing, fraud or improper activities in all instances. While we believe we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, our management does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors and fraud. In designing our control systems, management recognizes that any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. Further the design of a control system must reflect the necessity of considering the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. Because of inherent limitations in any control system, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of wrongdoing, if any, that may affect our operations, have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake and that controls may be circumvented by individual acts by some person, by collusion of two or more people or by management’s override of the control. The design of any control system also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of a potential future event, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Because of the inherent limitations in cost-effective control systems, misstatements due to error or wrongdoing may occur and not be detected. Over time, it is also possible that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions that could not be, or were not, anticipated at inception or review of the control systems. Any breakdown in our control systems, whether or not foreseeable by management, could cause investors to lose confidence in the accuracy of our financial reporting and may have an adverse impact on our business and on the market price for the Company’s common stock. If we do not maintain effective internal controls and systems, our business may suffer and the value of our shareholders’ investment may be harmed. As a public company, we are required to document and test our internal financial control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). For the fiscal year ended April 30, 2010, we identified material weaknesses with regard to accounting for common stock warrant instruments and contingent consideration that required a restatement of prior period results. We have taken remedial measures to correct such material weaknesses and expect to continue to evaluate our controls and make improvements as necessary. However, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that our controls are adequate in the future or that the controls will be effective in preventing fraud or material misstatement. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results and fraud may be easier to perpetrate on us. Any failures in the effectiveness of our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information which could have a negative effect on our stock price. Acquisitions may have an adverse effect on our business. We expect to continue making acquisitions as part of our long-term business strategy. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that we don’t realize a satisfactory return on our investment, or that we experience difficulty in the integration of new employees, business systems, and technology, or diversion of management’s attention from our other businesses. These events could harm our operating results or financial condition. 19 Economic or other business factors may lead us to further write down the carrying amount of our goodwill or long-lived assets, which could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. We evaluate our goodwill for impairment annually during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year, or more frequently when indicators of impairment are present. Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate impairment might exist. As a result of our most recent fourth quarter assessment, we recorded impairment charges of $13.5 million for the goodwill related to the acquisition of Daegis, representing 69% of its carrying value. As a result of our fiscal 2011 assessment, we recorded impairment charges of $1.1 million for the goodwill related to the acquisition of Ciphersoft, representing 100% of its carrying value, and $11.2 million for the goodwill related to the acquisition of AXS-One, representing 100% of its carrying value. We continue to monitor relevant market and economic conditions, including the price of our stock, and perform appropriate impairment reviews when conditions deteriorate such that we believe the value of our goodwill could be further impaired or an impairment exists in our long-lived assets. It is possible that conditions could deteriorate due to economic or other factors that affect our business, resulting in the need to write down the carrying amount of our goodwill or long-lived assets to fair value at the time of such assessment. As a result, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We face the possibility of damages resulting from internal and external security breaches and viruses. In the course of our business operations, we compile and transmit confidential information in our processing centers and other facilities. A breach of security in any of these facilities could damage our reputation and result in damages being assessed against us. In addition, the other systems with which we may interface, such as the internet and related systems may be vulnerable to security breaches, viruses, programming errors, or similar disruptive problems. The effect of these security breaches and related issues could disrupt our ability to perform certain key business functions and could potentially reduce demand for our services. Accordingly, we have expended significant resources toward establishing and enhancing the security of our related infrastructures, although no assurance can be given that they will be entirely free from potential breach. Maintaining and enhancing our infrastructure security may require us to expend significant capital in the future. The success of our strategy to offer our EDI services and internet solutions depends on the confidence of our clients in our ability to securely receive and transmit confidential information. Our EDI services and solutions rely on encryption, authentication and other security technology licensed from third parties to achieve secure transmission of confidential information. We may not be able to stop unauthorized attempts to gain access to or disrupt the transmission of communications by our clients. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate confidential user information or interrupt our, or our customers’, operations. In addition, our EDI and internet solutions may be vulnerable to viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. Any failure to provide secure infrastructure and/or electronic communication services could result in a lack of trust by our customers causing them to seek out other vendors and/or damage our reputation in the market, making it difficult to obtain new clients. If our security measures are breached or fail and unauthorized access is obtained to a client’s data, our services may be perceived as not being secure, customers may curtail or stop using our services, and we may incur significant liabilities. Our services involve the storage and transmission of customers’ proprietary information. Because of the sensitivity of this information, security features of our software are very important. A party, whether internal or external, that is able to circumvent our security systems could, among other things, misappropriate or misuse sensitive or confidential information, user information or other proprietary information, cause significant interruptions in our operations and cause all or portions of our website to be unavailable. Internal or external parties may attempt to circumvent our security systems. While we currently expend significant resources to protect against cyber-attacks we may need to expend additional significant resources in the future to continue to protect against potential security breaches or to address problems caused by such attacks or any breach of our systems. Further, any reductions in the availability of our website could impair our ability to conduct our business and adversely impact our customers during the occurrence of any such incident. Because the techniques used to circumvent security systems can be highly sophisticated and change frequently, often are not recognized until launched against a target and may originate from less regulated and remote areas around the world, we may be unable to proactively address all possible techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures for all situations. 20 Noncompliance with any privacy laws or data security laws or any security incident or breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized use or disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer information, whether by us, one of our employees or a third party, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations, including but not limited to: material fines and penalties; compensatory, special, punitive, and statutory damages; litigation; consent orders regarding our privacy and security practices; requirements that we provide notices, credit monitoring services and/or credit restoration services or other relevant services to impacted individuals; adverse actions against our licenses to do business; and injunctive relief. Additionally, the costs incurred to remediate any data security or privacy incident could be substantial. We are implementing a new company-wide enterprise accounting (“ERP”) system. The implementation process is complex and involves a number of risks that may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are currently replacing our multiple business systems with a new company-wide, integrated ERP system to handle various business, operating and financial processes. The new system will enhance a variety of important functions, such as order entry, invoicing, accounts receivable, accounts payable, financial consolidation, and internal and external financial and management reporting matters. ERP implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on software and implementation activities that often continue for several years. Such an integrated, wide-scale implementation is extremely complex and requires transformation of business and financial processes in order to reap the benefits of the ERP system. Significant efforts are required for requirements identification, functional design, process documentation, data conversion, user training and post implementation support. Problems in any of these areas could result in operational issues including delayed billing and accounting errors and other operational issues. System delays or malfunctioning could also disrupt our ability to timely and accurately process and report results of our operations, financial position and cash flows, which could impact our ability to timely complete important business processes such as the evaluation of our internal controls and attestation activities pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Until the new ERP system is fully implemented, we expect to incur additional selling, general and administrative expenses to implement and test the system, and there can be no assurance that other issues relating to the ERP system will not occur or be identified. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if it experiences operating problems and/or cost overruns during the ERP implementation process or if the ERP system and the associated process changes do not function as expected or give rise to the expected benefits. 21 