ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the specific risk factors described below in addition to the other information contained in this Report before making a decision to invest in our common stock. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects could be harmed. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline and a loss of all or part of your investment. Certain statements below are forward-looking statements. See the section entitled “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We have only a limited operating history and, as a result, recent historical growth may not provide an accurate representation of the growth we may experience in the future, which may make it difficult to evaluate our future prospects. We launched our first 20 ETFs in June 2006 and have only a limited operating history in the asset management business upon which an evaluation of our performance can be made. We have incurred significant losses since we launched our first ETFs. We first reported net income in the first quarter of 2011 and we only began to generate positive cash flow on a full quarterly basis in the second fiscal quarter of the year ended December 31, 2010 and, as a result, recent historical growth may not provide an accurate representation of the growth we may experience in the future, which may make it difficult to evaluate our future prospects. Although we have reported net income for the 2011 and 2012 fiscal years, we may not be able to maintain or increase our level of profitability. Prior to generating net income for 2011, we incurred net losses of $27.0 million, $21.2 million and $7.5 million in 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. Even though we have achieved profitability, because of the various risks outlined in this Report, we cannot assure you that we will continue to be profitable. Challenging global market conditions associated with declining prices of securities can adversely affect our business by reducing the market value of the assets we manage or causing WisdomTree ETF shareholders to sell their fund shares and trigger redemptions. We are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in global market conditions and the declining prices of securities, which may result in a decrease in demand for investment products, a higher redemption rate and/or a decline in AUM. The securities markets are highly volatile and securities prices may increase or decrease for many reasons, including general economic conditions, political events, acts of terrorism and other matters beyond our control. Substantially all of our revenue is determined by the amount of our AUM and a substantial part of our AUM is represented by equity securities, in both the international and U.S. markets. As a result, our business can be expected to generate lower revenue in declining equity market environments or general economic downturns. A decline in the prices of securities held by the WisdomTree ETFs may cause our revenue to decline by either causing the value of our AUM to decrease, which would result in lower advisory fees, or causing investors in the WisdomTree ETFs to sell their shares in favor of investments they perceive to offer greater opportunity or lower risk, thus triggering redemptions that would also result in decreased AUM and lower fees. Fluctuations in the amount and mix of our AUM may negatively impact revenue and operating margin. The level of our revenue depends on the level and mix of our AUM. Our revenue is derived primarily from advisory fees based on a percentage of the value of our AUM and varies with the nature of the ETFs, which have different fee levels. Fluctuations in the amount and mix of our AUM may be attributable in part to market conditions outside of our control that have had, and in the future could have, a negative impact on our revenue and operating margin. We are subject to an increased risk of asset volatility from changes in the foreign markets as discussed below. Individual markets may be adversely affected by economic, political, financial, or other instabilities that are particular to the country or regions in which a market is located, including without limitation local acts of 16 terrorism, economic crises or other business, social or political crises. Declines in these markets and currency fluctuations have caused in the past, and may cause in the future, a decline in our revenue. Changing market conditions and currency fluctuations may cause a shift in our asset mix between foreign and U.S. assets, potentially resulting in a decline in our revenue since we generally derive higher fee revenue from our ETFs investing in foreign markets, particularly in emerging markets. We have had in the past, and in the future may have, investors who maintain significant positions in one or more of our ETFs. If such an investor were to broadly change or withdraw its investments in our ETFs because of a change to its investment strategy, market conditions or any other reason, it may significantly change the level and mix of our AUM, which may negatively affect our revenue and operating margin. Most of our assets under management are held in ETFs that invest in foreign securities and we therefore have substantial exposure to foreign market conditions and are subject to currency exchange rate risks. Many of our ETFs invest in securities of companies, governments and other organizations located outside the United States and at December 31, 2012, approximately 75% of our AUM was held by these ETFs. Therefore, the success of our business is closely tied to market conditions in foreign markets. Investments in non-U.S. issuers are affected by political, social and economic uncertainty effecting a country or region in which we are invested. In addition, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could reduce the revenue we earn from these foreign invested ETFs. This occurs because an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to non-U.S. currencies may result in a decrease in the dollar value of the AUM in these ETFs, which, in turn, would result in lower revenue. Furthermore, investors are likely to believe these ETFs, as well as our suite of currency and fixed income ETFs, are a less attractive investment opportunity when the value of the U.S. dollar rises relative to non-U.S. currencies, which could have the effect of reducing investments in these ETFs, thus reducing revenue. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from products invested in emerging markets and are exposed to the market-specific political and economic risks as well as general investor sentiment regarding future growth of those markets. At December 31, 2012, approximately 51% of our ETF AUM was concentrated in eight of our WisdomTree ETFs that primarily invest in equity or fixed income securities issued by companies or governments in emerging markets. In 2012, approximately 57% of our revenue was derived from those eight ETFs. As a result, our operating results are particularly exposed to the performance of those funds, economic and market conditions in those emerging markets, general investor sentiment regarding future growth in those emerging markets and our ability to maintain the assets under management of those funds. In addition, because these funds have a higher expense ratio than our other funds in general, they generate a disproportionate percentage of our total revenue. If the AUM in these funds were to decline, either because of declining market values or because of net outflows from these funds, our revenue would be adversely affected. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from a limited number of products and, as a result, our operating results are particularly exposed to the performance of those funds, investor sentiment toward the strategies pursued by those funds and our ability to maintain the assets under management of those funds. At December 31, 2012, approximately 76% of our ETF AUM was concentrated in ten of our WisdomTree ETFs and approximately 55% of our ETF AUM was concentrated in five of our WisdomTree ETFs. As a result, our operating results are particularly exposed to the performance of those funds, investor sentiment toward investing in the strategies pursued by those funds and our ability to maintain the assets under management of those funds. 17 The WisdomTree ETFs have a limited track record and poor investment performance could cause our revenue to decline. The WisdomTree ETFs have a limited track record upon which an evaluation of their investment performance can be made. At December 31, 2012, of our total 46 ETFs, only 30 ETFs had a five year track record and 39 had a three year track record. Furthermore, as part of our strategy, we continuously evaluate our product offerings to ensure that all of our funds are useful, compelling and differentiated investment offerings, to more competitively align our overall product line in the current ETF landscape and to reallocate our attention and resources to areas of greater client interest. As a result, we may further adjust our product offering which may result in the closing of some of our ETFs, changing their investment objective or offering of new funds. The investment performance of our funds is important to our success. While strong investment performance could stimulate sales of our ETFs, poor investment performance, on an absolute basis or as compared to third-party benchmarks or competitive products, could lead to a decrease in sales or stimulate redemptions, thereby lowering the assets under management and reducing our revenue. Our fundamentally-weighted equity ETFs are designed to provide the potential for better risk-adjusted investment returns over full market cycles and are best suited for investors with a longer-term investment horizon. However, the investment approach of our equity ETFs may not perform well during certain shorter periods of time during different points in the economic cycle. We currently depend on BNY Mellon to provide us with critical services to operate our business and the WisdomTree ETFs. The failure of BNY Mellon to adequately provide such services could materially affect our operating business and harm WisdomTree ETF shareholders. We currently depend upon BNY Mellon to provide the WisdomTree Trust with portfolio management services for all of our ETFs except for three that are managed by other sub-advisors. BNY Mellon also provides us with custody services, fund accounting, administration, transfer agency and securities lending services. The failure of BNY Mellon to provide us and the WisdomTree ETFs with these services could result in financial loss to us and WisdomTree ETF shareholders. In addition, because BNY Mellon provides a multitude of important services to us, and portfolio management for the WisdomTree ETFs covers several different asset classes, changing this vendor relationship would be challenging. It might require us to devote a significant portion of management’s time to negotiate a similar relationship with another vendor or have these services provided by multiple vendors, which would require us to coordinate the transfer of these functions to another vendor or vendors. We depend on other third parties to provide many critical services to operate our business and the WisdomTree ETFs. The failure of key vendors to adequately provide such services could materially affect our operating business and harm WisdomTree ETF shareholders. In addition to BNY Mellon, we depend on other third-party vendors to provide us with many services that are critical to operating our business, including two additional subadvisers that provide us with portfolio management services, a third-party provider of index calculation services for our indexes, a distributor of the WisdomTree ETFs and a third-party provider of indicative values of the portfolios of the WisdomTree ETFs. The failure of these key vendors to provide us and the WisdomTree ETFs with these services could lead to operational issues and result in financial loss to us and WisdomTree ETF shareholders. The asset management business is intensely competitive. Many of our competitors have greater market share, offer a broader range of products and have greater financial resources than we do. As a result, we may experience pressures on our pricing and market share. Our business operates in intensely competitive industry segments. We compete directly with other ETF sponsors and mutual fund companies and indirectly against other investment management firms, insurance companies, banks, brokerage firms and other financial institutions that offer products that have similar features and investment objectives to those offered by us. We compete based on a number of factors, including name 18 recognition, service, investment performance, product features and breadth of product choices, and fees. Many of our competitors have greater market share, offer a broader range of products and have greater financial resources than we do. Some financial institutions operate in a more favorable regulatory environment and/or have proprietary products and distribution channels which may provide certain competitive advantages to them and their investment products. Our competitors may also adopt products, services or strategies similar to ours, including the use of fundamentally-weighted indexes. In addition, over time certain sectors of the financial services industry have become considerably more concentrated, as financial institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms. This convergence could result in our competitors gaining greater resources and we may experience pressures on our pricing and market share as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices. We believe that competition within the ETF industry will continue to increase as more traditional asset management companies become ETF sponsors. Competitive pressures could reduce revenue and profit margins. The investment management business is highly competitive and has relatively low barriers to entry. Although the ETF industry currently has a higher barrier to entry as a result of the need for ETF sponsors to obtain exemptive relief from the SEC in order to operate ETFs, we expect that additional companies, both new companies and traditional asset managers, many of whom are much larger than us, will enter the ETF space. In addition, in 2008, the SEC proposed a rule that, if adopted, would eliminate the need to obtain this exemptive relief. In March 2010, the SEC announced it would defer approval of applications for exemptive relief for ETFs that make significant use of derivatives pending a review by the SEC of the use of derivatives by mutual funds, ETFs and other investment companies. This moratorium was lifted in December, 2012 and may have served in the past to prevent potential competitors from directly competing with certain of our products. Now that the moratorium has been lifted we may face increased competition and we may be forced to compete increasingly on the basis of price, we may not be able to maintain our current fee structure. Fee reductions on existing or future new products could cause our revenue and profit margins to decline. Our revenue could be adversely affected if the WisdomTree Trust determines that the advisory fees we receive from the WisdomTree ETFs should be reduced. Our advisory agreements with the WisdomTree Trust and the fees we collect from the WisdomTree ETFs are subject to review and approval by the independent trustees of the WisdomTree Trust. The advisory agreements are subject to initial review and approval. After the initial two-year term of the agreement for each ETF, the continuation of such agreement must be reviewed and approved at least annually by a majority of the independent trustees. In determining whether to approve the agreements, the independent trustees consider factors such as (i) the nature and quality of the services provided by us, (ii) the fees charged by us and the costs and profits realized by us in connection with such services, as well as any ancillary or “fall-out” benefits from such services, (iii) the extent to which economies of scale are shared with the WisdomTree ETFs, and (iv) the level of fees paid by other similar funds. If the independent trustees determine that the advisory fees we charge to any particular fund are too high, we will need to reduce our fees, which could adversely affect our revenue. We have contracted with a third-party financial intermediary that markets our investment portfolios in Latin America and this relationship may not be available or profitable to us in the future. This third-party intermediary generally offers its clients various investment products in addition to, and in competition with, our investment offerings. It would be difficult for us to acquire or retain the management of those assets without the assistance of the intermediary and we cannot be assured that we will be able to maintain this marketing relationship. 19 Our risk management policies and procedures, and those of our third-party vendors upon which we rely, may not be fully effective in identifying or mitigating risk exposure, including employee misconduct. If our policies and procedures do not adequately protect us from exposure to these risks, we may incur losses that would adversely affect our financial condition, reputation and market share. We have developed risk management policies and procedures and we continue to refine them as we conduct our business. Many of our procedures involve oversight of third-party vendors that provide us with critical services such as portfolio management, custody and fund accounting and administration, and index calculation services. Our policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage risks may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure. Moreover, we are subject to the risks of errors and misconduct by our employees, including fraud and non-compliance with policies. These risks are difficult to detect in advance and deter, and could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. Although we maintain insurance and use other traditional risk-shifting tools, such as third-party indemnification, in order to manage certain exposures, they are subject to terms such as deductibles, coinsurance, limits and policy exclusions, as well as risk of counterparty denial of coverage, default or insolvency. If our policies and procedures do not adequately protect us from exposure and our exposure is not adequately covered by insurance or other risk-shifting tools, we may incur losses that would adversely affect our financial condition and could cause a reduction in our revenue as WisdomTree ETF shareholders shift their investments to the products of our competitors. Compliance with extensive, complex and changing regulation imposes significant financial and strategic costs on our business, and non-compliance could result in fines and penalties. Our business is subject to extensive regulation of our business and operations. Our subsidiary, WisdomTree Asset Management, Inc., or WTAM, is a registered investment adviser and is subject to oversight by the SEC pursuant to its regulatory authority under the Investment Advisers Act. We also must comply with certain requirements under the Investment Company Act, with respect to the WisdomTree ETFs for which WTAM acts as investment adviser. WTAM is also a member of the National Futures Association, or NFA, and registered as a Commodity Pool Operator for certain of our ETFs. As a Commodity Pool Operator we are subject to oversight by the NFA and the Commodities Futures Trading Commission pursuant to regulatory authority under the Commodities Exchange Act. In addition, the content and use of our marketing and sales materials and of our sales force is subject to the regulatory authority of FINRA. To a lesser extent, we are also subject to foreign laws and regulatory authorities with respect to operational aspects of our funds that invest in securities of issuers in foreign countries and in the sales of our funds in foreign jurisdictions. Each of the regulatory bodies with jurisdiction over us has regulatory powers dealing with many aspects of our business, including the authority to grant, and, in specific circumstances to cancel, permissions to carry on particular businesses. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, censure, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our registration as an investment adviser. Even if a sanction imposed against us or our personnel is small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity arising from the imposition of sanctions against us by regulators could harm our reputation and thus result in redemptions from our ETFs and impede our ability to retain WisdomTree ETF shareholders and develop new WisdomTree ETF shareholders, all of which may reduce our revenue. We face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities, including extended investigation activity, adoption of costly or restrictive new regulations and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties. Among other things, we could be fined or be prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities. The requirements imposed by our regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect WisdomTree ETF shareholders and our advisory clients, and are not designed to protect our stockholders. Consequently, these regulations often serve to limit our activities, including through WisdomTree ETF shareholder protection and market conduct requirements. In addition, the regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to modifications and further regulation. Recently, concerns have been raised about ETF’s alleged contribution to market volatility as well as 20 the disclosure requirements applicable to certain types of more complex ETFs. New laws or regulations, or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations, applicable to us and our clients also may adversely affect our business, and our ability to function in this environment will depend on our ability to constantly monitor and react to these changes. Regulatory uncertainty continues to surround the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, which represented a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services regulatory environment and requires federal agencies to implement numerous new rules, which, if adopted, may impose additional regulatory burdens and expenses on our business. Compliance with new laws and regulations may result in increased compliance costs and expenses. Specific regulatory changes also may have a direct impact on our revenue. In addition to regulatory scrutiny and potential fines and sanctions, regulators continue to examine different aspects of the asset management industry. New regulation or judicial interpretations regarding the annual approval process for investment advisory agreements may result in the reduction of fees under these agreements, which would mean a reduction in our revenue. Damage to our reputation could adversely affect our business. We believe we have developed a strong brand and a reputation for innovative, thoughtful products, favorable long-term investment performance and excellent client services. The WisdomTree name and brand is a valuable asset and any damage to it could hamper our ability to maintain and grow our AUM and attract and retain employees, thereby having a material adverse effect on our revenue. Risks to our reputation may range from regulatory issues to unsubstantiated accusations. Managing such matters may be expensive, time-consuming and difficult. As described in the section entitled “Management—Involvement in Certain Legal Proceedings,” Michael Steinhardt, who currently serves as the chairman of our Board of Directors and beneficially owns approximately 15.4% of our common stock, was sanctioned in civil litigation by the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware and is required to, among other things, self-report certain trading activity not involving the Company’s securities to the SEC. Mr. Steinhardt’s actions did not involve the Company and, based on the facts currently known, which we are continuing to review, we do not believe Mr. Steinhardt’s actions will have a material impact on our business, although there can be no assurance that this will be the case or that these matters, and any investigations or actions that result from these matters, will not have an adverse effect on our reputation or the price of our common stock. For more details, see the section entitled “Management—Involvement in Certain Legal Proceedings.” Abnormally wide bid/ask spreads and market disruptions that halt or disrupt trading or create extreme volatility could undermine investor confidence in the ETF investment structure and limit investor acceptance of ETFs. The shares of the WisdomTree ETFs, like the shares of all ETFs, trade on exchanges in market transactions that generally approximate the value of the underlying portfolio of securities held by the particular ETF. Trading involves risks including the potential lack of an active market for fund shares, abnormally wide bid/ask spreads (the difference between the prices at which shares of an ETF can be bought and sold) that can exist for a variety of reasons and losses from trading. These risks can be exacerbated during periods when there is low demand for an ETF, when the markets in the underlying basket of securities are closed, when markets conditions are extremely volatile or when trading is disrupted. This could result in limited growth or a reduction in the overall ETF market and result in our revenue not growing as rapidly as it has in the recent past or even in a reduction of revenue. We have experienced significant growth in recent years, and if we were unable to manage this growth it could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have experienced significant growth in recent years, which has placed increased demands on our management and other resources and will continue to do so in the future. We may not be able to maintain or 21 accelerate our current growth rate, manage our expanding operations effectively or achieve planned growth on a timely or profitable basis. Managing our growth effectively will involve, among other things: • continuing to retain, motivate and manage our existing employees and attract and integrate new employees; • developing, implementing and improving our operational, financial, accounting, reporting and other internal systems and controls on a timely basis; and • maintaining and developing our various support functions including human resources, information technology, legal and corporate communications. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, there could be a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain or increase revenue and profitability. Continued growth will require continued investment in personnel, information technology infrastructure and marketing activities, as well as further development and implementation of financial, operational and compliance systems and controls. We may not be successful in implementing all of the processes that are necessary to support our growth. Unless our growth results in an increase in our revenue that is at least proportionate to the increase in our costs associated with this growth, our gross margins and our future profitability will be adversely affected. Our growth strategy also involves, among other things, diversifying our product line to include more ETFs in non-equity asset classes, including fixed income and alternative investment strategies. This will require us to develop products in areas in which we do not have significant prior experience. We may not be successful in developing new products and if developed and launched, we may not be successful in marketing these new products. Our ability to operate effectively could be impaired if we fail to retain or recruit key personnel. The success of our business and the implementation of our growth strategy are highly dependent on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled, and sometimes highly specialized, employees, including in particular, operations, product development, research and sales personnel. Our employees may voluntarily terminate their employment at any time. The market for these individuals is extremely competitive and is likely to become more so as additional investment management firms enter the ETF industry. Our compensation methods may not enable us to recruit and retain required personnel. In particular, our use of equity grants as a component of total employee compensation may be ineffective if the market price of our common stock declines. Also, we may need to increase compensation levels, which would decrease our net income or increase our losses. If we are unable to retain and attract key personnel, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could make some of our products less attractive to investors. Many of the WisdomTree ETFs seek to obtain the investment return achieved by our proprietary indexes that weigh index components based upon dividends. Even with the recent increase in tax rates applicable to dividends, corporate dividends continue to enjoy favorable tax treatment under current U.S. federal income tax law. If the tax rates imposed on dividends were increased, it may make these WisdomTree ETFs less attractive to investors. Our expenses are subject to fluctuations that could materially affect our operating results. Our results of operations are dependent in part on the level of our expenses, which can vary from quarter to quarter. Our expenses may fluctuate primarily as a result of discretionary spending, including marketing, advertising and sales expenses we incur to support our growth initiatives. Accordingly, our results of operation may vary from quarter to quarter. 22 Any significant limitation or failure of our technology systems, or the technology systems of our third party vendors, that are critical to our operations could interrupt or damage our operations and result in material financial loss, regulatory violations, reputational harm or legal liability. We are dependent upon the effectiveness of our own, and our vendors’, information security policies, procedures and capabilities to protect the technology systems used to operate our business and to protect the data that reside on or are transmitted through them. Although we and our third party vendors take protective measures to secure information, our technology systems may still be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other events that could result in inaccuracies in our information or system disruptions or failures, which could materially interrupt or damage our operations. Any inaccuracies, delays or system failures could subject us to client dissatisfaction and losses or result in material financial loss, regulatory violations, reputational harm or legal liability, which, in turn, could cause a decline in our earnings or stock price. We may from time to time in the future be involved in legal proceedings that could require significant management time and attention, possibly resulting in significant expense or in an unfavorable outcome, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. From time to time, we may be subject to litigation. In connection with any litigation in which we are involved, we may be forced to incur costs and expenses in connection with defending ourselves or in connection with the payment of any settlement or judgment or compliance with any injunctions in connection therewith if there is an unfavorable outcome. The expense of defending litigation may be significant. The amount of time to resolve lawsuits is unpredictable and defending ourselves may divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, an unfavorable outcome in any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Chairman of our Board may be subject to future sanctions that could adversely affect us. Michael Steinhardt, who currently serves as the chairman of our Board of Directors, was sanctioned in civil litigation by the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware and was required to, among other things, self-report certain trading activity not involving the Company’s securities to the SEC. If the SEC or NASDAQ were to conclude that Mr. Steinhardt’s actions violated federal securities law or other rules, the SEC or NASDAQ could seek remedies including, among other things, barring Mr. Steinhardt from serving on our Board of Directors. NASDAQ could also seek to delist shares of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market. Mr. Steinhardt’s actions did not involve the Company and, based on the facts currently known, which we are continuing to monitor, we do not believe Mr. Steinhardt’s actions will have a material impact on our business. However, there can be no assurance that this will be the case or that this will not have an adverse effect on our reputation or the price of our common stock. Catastrophic and unpredictable events could have a material adverse effect on our business. A terrorist attack, war, power failure, cyber-attack, natural disaster or other catastrophic or unpredictable event could adversely affect our revenue, expenses and operating results by: interrupting our normal business operations; inflicting employee casualties, including loss of our key employees; requiring substantial expenditures and expenses to repair, replace and restore normal business operations; and reducing investor confidence. We have a disaster recovery plan to address certain contingencies, but this plan may not be sufficient in responding or ameliorating the effects of all disaster scenarios. Similarly, these types of events could also affect the ability of the third-party vendors that we rely upon to conduct our business–e.g., BNY Mellon which provides us with sub-advisory portfolio management services for most of our funds as well as custodial, fund accounting and administration services, or Standard & Poor’s, which provide us with index calculation services–to continue to provide these necessary services to us, even though they may also have disaster recovery plans to 23 address these contingencies. If we or our third-party vendors are unable to respond adequately or in a timely manner, this failure may result in a loss of revenue and/or increased expenses, either of which would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. A change of control of our Company would automatically terminate our investment management agreements relating to the WisdomTree ETFs unless the Board of Trustees of the WisdomTree Trust and shareholders of the WisdomTree ETFs voted to continue the agreements. A change in control could occur if a third party were to acquire controlling interest in our Company. Under the Investment Company Act, an investment management agreement with a fund must provide for its automatic termination in the event of its assignment. The fund’s board must vote to continue such an agreement following any such assignment and the shareholders of the WisdomTree ETFs must approve the assignment. The cost of obtaining such shareholder approval can be significant and which ordinarily would be borne by us. Similarly, under the Investment Advisers Act, a client’s investment management agreement may not be “assigned” by the investment advisor without the client’s consent. An investment management agreement is considered under both acts to be assigned to another party when a controlling block of the advisor’s securities is transferred. Under both acts, there is a presumption that a stockholder beneficially owning 25% or more of an advisor’s voting stock controls the advisor and conversely a stockholder beneficially owning less than 25% is presumed not to control the advisor. In our case, an assignment of our investment management agreements may occur if a third party were to acquire a controlling interest in our Company. We cannot be certain that the Trustees of the WisdomTree ETFs would consent to assignments of our investment management agreements or approve new agreements with us if a change of control occurs. And even if such approval were obtained, approval from the shareholders of the WisdomTree ETFs would be required to be obtained; such approval could not be guaranteed and even if obtained, likely would result in significant expense. This restriction may discourage potential purchasers from acquiring a controlling interest in our Company. We may from time to time be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, which could harm our business. Third parties may assert against us alleged patent, copyright, trademark or other intellectual property rights to intellectual property that is important to our business. Any claims that our products or processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others, regardless of the merit or resolution of such claims, could cause us to incur significant costs in responding to, defending and resolving such claims, and may divert the efforts and attention of our management from our business. As a result of such intellectual property infringement claims, we could be required or otherwise decide that it is appropriate to: • pay third-party infringement claims; • discontinue selling the particular funds subject to infringement claims; • discontinue using the processes subject to infringement claims; • develop other intellectual property or products not subject to infringement claims, which could be time-consuming and costly or may not be possible; or • license the intellectual property from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could result in unexpected expenses, reduce our revenue and adversely affect our business and financial results. In addition, we are currently covered by a relatively small number of equity research analysts, whose views on the merits or impact of any claim of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights may differ from ours and result in the issuance of unfavorable commentaries by such analysts, which could have an adverse effect on the price and trading volume of our common stock. 24 For example, on December 1, 2011, Research Affiliates, LLC filed suit against us in the United States District Court for the Central District of California, alleging that the fundamentally weighted investment methodology we employ infringes three of plaintiff’s patents, and seeking both unspecified monetary damages to be determined and an injunction to prevent further infringement. For more details, see “Business—Legal Proceedings.” Although this matter was settled in a manner satisfactory to us, we could face similar suits in the future. We have been issued a patent and have applied for other patents, but additional patents may not be issued and we may not be able to enforce or protect our patents and other intellectual property rights, which may harm our ability to compete and harm our business. Although we have a patent and have applied for other patents relating to our index methodology and the operation of our equity ETFs, these other patents may not be issued to us. In addition, even if issued, our ability to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights is subject to general litigation risks. While we have been competing without the benefit of these patents being issued, if they are not issued or we cannot successfully enforce them, we may lose the benefit of a future competitive advantage that they would otherwise provide to us. If we seek to enforce our rights, we could be subject to claims that the intellectual property right is invalid or is otherwise not enforceable. Furthermore, our assertion of intellectual property rights could result in the other party seeking to assert alleged intellectual property rights of its own or assert other claims against us, which could harm our business. If we are not ultimately successful in defending ourselves against these claims in litigation, we may be subject to the risks described in the immediately preceding risk factor entitled “We may from time to time be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, which could harm our business.” Future strategic transactions, including business combinations, mergers and acquisitions, may occur at any time, be significant in size relative to our assets and operations, result in significant changes in our business and materially and adversely affect our stock price. Additionally, we may expend significant financial, management time and other resources without the consummation of such transactions or the realization of the anticipated benefits. We believe attractive opportunities for strategic transactions exist, some of which may be material to our operations and financial condition if consummated. We have engaged in the past and expect to continue to engage in the future in strategic discussions that we believe may enable us to strengthen our business, expand and diversify our product offering, increase our AUM or enter into new markets. Such transactions may result in our issuing a significant amount of our common stock or other security that could be dilutive to our stockholders, result in substantial borrowings, result in changes in our board composition and/or management team, constitute a change of control of our Company, lead to significant changes in our product offering, business operations and earning and risk profiles, and/or result in a decline in the price of our common stock. Even if consummated, such transactions may involve numerous risks, including, among others: • failure to achieve financial, operating or business objectives; • failure to integrate successfully and in a timely manner any operations, products, services or technology; • diversion of the attention of management and other personnel; • failure to obtain necessary regulatory, shareholder or other approvals; • failure to retain personnel; • failure to obtain any necessary financing on acceptable terms or at all; • unforeseen liabilities or expenses; • failure of counterparties to indemnify us against liabilities arising from such transactions; 25 • potential loss of, or harm to, our relationship with our and the counterparties’ employees, customers and suppliers as a result of integration of new businesses; • accounting charges; • unfavorable market conditions that could negatively impact the acquired or combined businesses; and • legal proceedings, including lawsuits brought by stockholders of us or the counterparties which may result in expenses and/or have a material adverse effect on our business. We could be prevented from, or significantly delayed in, achieving our strategic goals if we are unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses. Our ability to complete future strategic transactions depends upon a number of factors that are not entirely within our control, including our ability to identify suitable merger or acquisition candidates, negotiate acceptable terms, conclude satisfactory agreements and secure financing. Our failure to complete strategic transactions or to integrate and manage acquired or combined businesses successfully could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial conditions. Risks Relating to our Common Stock The market price of our shares may fluctuate significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: • decreases in our assets under management; • variations in our quarterly operating results; • differences between our actual financial operating results and those expected by investors and analysts; • publication of research reports about us or the investment management industry; • changes in expectations concerning our future financial performance and the future performance of the ETF industry and the asset management industry in general, including financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; • our strategic moves and those of our competitors, such as acquisitions or consolidations; • changes in the regulatory framework of the ETF industry and the asset management industry in general and regulatory action, including action by the SEC to lessen the regulatory requirements or shortening the process to obtain regulatory relief under the Investment Company Act that is necessary to become an ETF sponsor; • changes in general economic or market conditions; and • realization of any other of the risks described elsewhere in this section. In addition, stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Furthermore, in the past, market fluctuations and price declines in a company’s stock have led to securities class action litigations or other derivative shareholder lawsuits. If such a suit were to arise, it could cause substantial costs to us and divert our resources regardless of the outcome. Future sales of our common stock in the public market by management or our large stockholders could lower our stock price. As of February 15, 2013, our largest stockholder (who serves on our Board of Directors), together with the other members of our Board of Directors and our executive officers, beneficially owned approximately 25.7% of 26 our outstanding common stock. If our existing stockholders sell, or indicate an intent to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock may decline significantly. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future public sales of these shares or the availability of these shares for sale will have on the market price of our common stock. If equity research analysts issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not control the opinions of these analysts. The price and trading volume of our common stock could decline if one or more equity analysts downgrade our common stock or if analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. Future issuance of our common stock could lower our stock price and dilute the interests of existing stockholders. We may issue additional shares of our common stock in the future, either in connection with an acquisition or for other business reasons. The issuance of a substantial amount of common stock could have the effect of substantially diluting the interests of our current stockholders. In addition, the sale of a substantial amount of common stock in the public market, either in the initial issuance or in a subsequent resale by the target company in an acquisition which received such common stock as consideration or by investors who acquired such common stock in a private placement could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The members of our Board of Directors, their affiliates and our executive officers, as stockholders, can exert significant influence over our Company. As of February 15, 2013, the members of our Board of Directors and our executive officers, as stockholders, collectively beneficially owned 25.7% of our outstanding common stock. As a result of this ownership, they have the ability to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by stockholders of our Company, including the election of directors. This concentration of ownership also may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our Company that may be favored by other stockholders. This could prevent transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over current market prices. Although our directors and officers have a duty of loyalty to us under Delaware law and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, transactions that we enter into in which a director or officer has a conflict of interest are generally permissible so long as (1) the material facts relating to the director’s or officer’s relationship or interest as to the transaction are disclosed to our Board of Directors and a majority of our disinterested directors, or a committee consisting solely of disinterested directors, approves the transaction, (2) the material facts relating to the director’s or officer’s relationship or interest as to the transaction are disclosed to our stockholders and a majority of our disinterested stockholders approves the transaction, or (3) the transaction is otherwise fair to us. Under our certificate of incorporation, representatives of our stockholders are not required to offer to us any transaction opportunity of which they become aware and could take any such opportunity for themselves or offer it to other companies in which they have an investment, unless such opportunity is expressly offered to them solely in their capacity as a director of ours. The listing requirements of the NASDAQ Global Market, upon which our common stock is listed, also require that certain transactions in which a director or officer has a conflict of interest must be considered and approved by our Audit Committee, which consists solely of independent directors. 27 A provision in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may prevent or delay an acquisition of our Company, which could decrease the market value of our common stock. Provisions of Delaware law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions may also prevent or delay attempts by stockholders to replace or remove our current management or members of our Board of Directors. These provisions include: • a classified Board of Directors; • limitations on the removal of directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; • the ability of our Board of Directors to make, alter or repeal our amended and restated by-laws; and • the authority of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock with such terms as our Board of Directors may determine. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits business combination transactions with stockholders of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock that our Board of Directors has not approved. These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to acquire us without negotiation. These provisions may apply even if some stockholders may consider the transaction beneficial to them. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions might also discourage a potential acquisition proposal or tender offer, even if the acquisition proposal or tender offer is at a premium over the then current market price for our common stock. We do not intend to pay dividends in the near term. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and we currently intend to invest our available cash flow in the near term in strategic growth initiatives, re-acquire shares of our common stock issued to our employees as incentive compensation or expand our business through strategic acquisitions. Thus, the shares of common stock may not realize a return in the form of dividends in the near term. Investors who anticipate the need for immediate dividends from shares of common stock should refrain from purchasing our common stock. In addition, our Board of Directors is authorized, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with such terms as our Board of Directors may, in its discretion, determine. Our Board of Directors could, therefore, issue preferred stock with dividend rights superior to that of the common stock, which could also limit the payment of dividends on the common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 