Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Form 10-K before deciding to invest in shares of our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. In such case, the market price of our common stock would likely decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Our business will suffer if we fail to obtain timely funding. Our operations to date have required significant cash expenditures. Our future capital requirements will depend on the results of our research and development activities, preclinical studies and clinical trials, competitive and technological advances, and regulatory activities of the FDA and other regulatory authorities. In order to commercialize our products, seek new product candidates and continue our research and development programs, we will need to raise additional funds. We have historically financed our activities from the sale of shares of common stock, convertible notes, warrants and proceeds from partnerships with other companies. Presently, with no further financing, we project that we will run out of funds in the third quarter of 2011. The terms of the April 2009 Notes enable those noteholders, at their option, to purchase additional notes with similar terms. We currently do not have any additional financing in place. If we are unable to raise additional funds, we could be required to reduce our spending plans, reduce our workforce, license one or more of our products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to commercialize ourselves, or sell certain assets. There can be no assurance that we can obtain financing, if at all, on terms acceptable to us. 16 We will require additional cash in order to maximize the commercial opportunity and continue clinical development of our product candidates. Alternatives available to us to sustain our operations include collaborative agreements, equity financing, debt and other financing arrangements with potential corporate partners and other sources. However, there can be no assurance that any such collaborative agreements or other sources of funding will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all. We may be unsuccessful in our efforts to obtain approval from the FDA or EMA and to commercialize our pharmaceutical product candidates. The commercialization of our pharmaceutical products involves a number of significant challenges. In particular, our ability to commercialize products, such as tesetaxel, an oral gallium compound and Genasense®, depends, in large part, on the success of our clinical development programs, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals and our sales and marketing efforts directed at physicians, patients and third-party payors. A number of factors could affect these efforts, including: · our ability to demonstrate clinically that our products are useful and safe in particular indications; · delays or refusals by regulatory authorities in granting marketing approvals; · our limited financial resources and sales and marketing experience relative to our competitors; · actual and perceived differences between our products and those of our competitors; · the availability and level of reimbursement for our products by third-party payors; · incidents of adverse reactions to our products; · side effects or misuse of our products and the unfavorable publicity that could result; and · the occurrence of manufacturing, supply or distribution disruptions. We cannot assure you that our product candidates will receive FDA or EMA approval. For example, the recent results in the Phase 3 AGENDA trial of Genasense® in advanced melanoma were not sufficient to submit a NDA in the U.S., and our prior regulatory applications for Genasense® in melanoma were unsuccessful. Our NDA for Genasense® plus chemotherapy in patients with relapsed or refractory CLL was also unsuccessful. Our financial condition and results of operations have been and will continue to be significantly affected by FDA and EMA action with respect to Genasense®. Any adverse events with respect to FDA and/or EMA approvals could negatively impact our ability to obtain additional funding or identify potential partners. Ultimately, our efforts may not prove to be as effective as those of our competitors. In the U.S. and elsewhere, our products will face significant competition. The principal conditions on which our product development efforts are focused and some of the other disorders for which we are conducting additional studies, are currently treated with several drugs, many of which have been available for a number of years or are available in inexpensive generic forms. Thus, even if we obtain regulatory approvals, we will need to demonstrate to physicians, patients and third-party payors that the cost of our products is reasonable and appropriate in light of their safety and efficacy, the price of competing products and the relative health care benefits to the patient. If we are unable to demonstrate that the costs of our products are reasonable and appropriate in light of these factors, we will likely be unsuccessful in commercializing our products. 17 Recurring losses and negative cash flows from operations raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and we may not be able to continue as a going concern. Our recurring losses from operations and negative cash flows from operations raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and as a result, our independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph in its report on our consolidated financial statement for the year ended December 31, 2010 with respect to this uncertainty. Substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern may create negative reactions to the price of the common shares of our stock and we may have a more difficult time obtaining financing. We have prepared our financial statements on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. The financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts or amounts of liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue in existence. We will not be able to commercialize our product candidates if our preclinical studies do not produce successful results or if our clinical trials do not demonstrate safety and efficacy in humans. Our success will depend on the success of our currently ongoing clinical trials and subsequent clinical trials that have not yet begun. It may take several years to complete the clinical trials of a product, and a failure of one or more of our clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. We believe that the development of each of our product candidates involves significant risks at each stage of testing. If clinical trial difficulties and failures arise, our product candidates may never be approved for sale or become commercially viable. We do not believe that any of our product candidates have alternative uses if our current development activities are unsuccessful. There are a number of difficulties and risks associated with clinical trials. These difficulties and risks may result in the failure to receive regulatory approval to sell our product candidates or the inability to commercialize any of our product candidates. The possibility exists that: · we may discover that a product candidate does not exhibit the expected therapeutic results in humans, may cause harmful side effects or have other unexpected characteristics that may delay or preclude regulatory approval or limit commercial use if approved; · the results from early clinical trials may not be statistically significant or predictive of results that will be obtained from expanded, advanced clinical trials; · institutional review boards or regulators, including the FDA, may hold, suspend or terminate our clinical research or the clinical trials of our product candidates for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements or if, in their opinion, the participating subjects are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; · subjects may drop out of our clinical trials; · our preclinical studies or clinical trials may produce negative, inconsistent or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical studies or clinical trials; and · the cost of our clinical trials may be greater than we currently anticipate. In October 2009, we announced that AGENDA did not show a statistically significant increase in its co-primary endpoint of PFS, or for secondary endpoints of overall response rate and disease control rate (which includes complete and partial responses, plus stable disease greater than 3 months duration). We cannot assure you that our ongoing preclinical studies and clinical trials will produce successful results in order to support regulatory approval of Genasense® in any territory or for any indication. Failure to obtain approval, or a substantial delay in approval of Genasense® for these or any other indications would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 18 We have a significant amount of debt. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under the notes and our other debt. We have a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2010, we had a face amount of debt outstanding of $29.8 million, consisting of the face value of 2008 Notes of $1.9 million, the face value of April 2009 Notes of $0.2 million, the face value of July 2009 Notes issued in July 2009 of $36 thousand, the face value of the September 2009 Notes and July 2009 Notes issued in September 2009 of $2.5 million and the face value of March 2010 Notes of $25.1 million. Our aggregate level of debt could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: · making it more difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations under our outstanding debt; · resulting in an event of default if we fail to comply with the restrictive covenants contained in our debt agreements, which could result in all of our debt becoming due and payable; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy; and · placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged. Any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under the notes and our other debt. Future adjustments to the conversion prices of our convertible notes may result in further dilution of our stockholders' ownership upon conversion of such notes. Our convertible notes contain various provisions regarding the adjustment of their applicable conversion prices. Conversion price resets were effected on October 9, 2010, January 1, 2011 and March 12, 2011. There are no other scheduled adjustments to the conversion prices of our convertible notes. The conversion rate of all of our convertible notes will be reduced if we issue additional shares of common stock or common stock equivalents for consideration that is less than the then applicable conversion price or if the conversion or exercise price of any common stock equivalent (including our convertible notes) is adjusted or modified to a price less than the then applicable conversion price. If any of the foregoing adjustments occur, our convertible notes will be convertible into a greater number of shares and our current stockholders' ownership holdings will be further diluted upon exercise of such notes. Our substantial amount of debt may prevent us from obtaining additional financing in the future or make the terms of securing such additional financing more onerous to us. While the terms or availability of additional capital is always uncertain, should we need to obtain additional financing in the future, because of our outstanding debt, it may be even more difficult for us to do so. If we are able to raise additional financing in the future, the terms of any such financing may be onerous to us. This potential inability to obtain borrowings or our obtaining borrowings on unfavorable terms could negatively impact our operations and impair our ability to maintain sufficient working capital. Any future financings at a price per share below the conversion price of our outstanding convertible notes would reset the conversion price of the notes and result in greater dilution of current stockholders. 19 We may not have the ability to repay the principal on our convertible notes when due. Our convertible notes mature on various dates in 2011, 2012 and 2013, and bear interest payable quarterly or semi-annually at rates of 8.0%, 12.0% or 15.0% per annum. Absent additional financing, we will likely not have sufficient funds to pay the principal upon maturity or upon any acceleration thereof. If we fail to pay principal on our convertible notes when due, we will be in default under our debt agreements which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have relied on and continue to rely on our contractual collaborative arrangements with research institutions and corporate partners for development and commercialization of our products. Our business could suffer if we are not able to enter into suitable arrangements, maintain existing relationships, or if our collaborative arrangements are not successful in developing and commercializing products. We have entered into collaborative relationships relating to the conduct of clinical research and other research activities in order to augment our internal research capabilities and to obtain access to specialized knowledge and expertise. Our business strategy depends in part on our continued ability to develop and maintain relationships with leading academic and research institutions and with independent researchers. The competition for these relationships is intense, and we can give no assurances that we will be able to develop and maintain these relationships on acceptable terms. We also seek strategic alliances with corporate partners, primarily pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, to help us develop and commercialize drugs. Various problems can arise in strategic alliances. A partner responsible for conducting clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approval may fail to develop a marketable drug. A partner may decide to pursue an alternative strategy or focus its efforts on alliances or other arrangements with third parties. A partner that has been granted marketing rights for a certain drug within a geographic area may fail to market the drug successfully. Consequently, strategic alliances that we may enter into may not be scientifically or commercially successful. We cannot control the resources that any collaborator may devote to our products. Any of our present or future collaborators may not perform their obligations as expected. These collaborators may breach or terminate their agreements with us, for instance upon changes in control or management of the collaborator, or they may otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner. In addition, our collaborators may elect not to develop products arising out of our collaborative arrangements or to devote sufficient resources to the development, regulatory approval, manufacture, marketing or sale of these products. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to develop our products or commercialize our products. An important part of our strategy involves conducting multiple product development programs. We may pursue opportunities in fields that conflict with those of our collaborators. In addition, disagreements with our collaborators could develop over rights to our intellectual property. The resolution of such conflicts and disagreements may require us to relinquish rights to our intellectual property that we believe we are entitled to. In addition, any disagreement or conflict with our collaborators could reduce our ability to obtain future collaboration agreements and negatively impact our relationship with existing collaborators. Such a conflict or disagreement could also lead to delays in collaborative research, development, regulatory approval or commercialization of various products or could require or result in litigation or arbitration, which would be time consuming and expensive, divert the attention of our management and could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We anticipate that we will incur additional losses and we may never be profitable. We have never been profitable. We have incurred substantial annual operating losses associated with ongoing research and development activities, preclinical testing, clinical trials, regulatory submissions and manufacturing activities. From the period since our inception to December 31, 2010, we have incurred a cumulative net deficit of $1,197.7 million. Achieving profitability is unlikely unless one or more of our product candidates is approved by the FDA or EMA for commercial sale in one or more indications. 20 Our business depends heavily on a small number of products. We currently market and sell one product, Ganite®, and the principal patent covering its use for the approved indication expired in April 2005. If Genasense® or tesetaxel is not approved, if approval is significantly delayed, or if in the event of approval, the product is commercially unsuccessful, then we do not expect significant sales of other products to offset this loss of potential revenue. To diversify our product line in the long term, it will be important for us to identify suitable technologies and products for acquisition or licensing and development. If we are unable to identify suitable technologies and products, or if we are unable to acquire or license products we identify, we may be unable to diversify our product line and to generate long-term growth. We may be unable to obtain or enforce patents, other proprietary rights and licenses to protect our business; we could become involved in litigation relating to our patents or licenses that could cause us to incur additional costs and delay or prevent our introduction of new drugs to market. Our success will depend to a large extent on our ability to: · obtain U.S. and foreign patent or other proprietary protection for our technologies, products and processes; · preserve trade secrets; and · operate without infringing the patent and other proprietary rights of third parties. Legal standards relating to the validity of patents covering pharmaceutical and biotechnological inventions and the scope of claims made under these types of patents are still developing, and they involve complex legal and factual questions. As a result, our ability to obtain and enforce patents that protect our drugs is highly uncertain. If we are unable to obtain and enforce patents and licenses to protect our drugs, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We hold numerous U.S., foreign and international patents covering various aspects of our technology, which include novel compositions of matter, methods of large-scale synthesis, methods of controlling gene expression and methods of treating disease. In the future, however, we may not be successful in obtaining additional patents despite pending or future applications. Moreover, our current and future patents may not be sufficient to protect us against competitors who use similar technology. Additionally, our patents, the patents of our business partners and the patents for which we have obtained licensing rights may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. Furthermore, rights granted under our patents may not be broad enough to cover commercially valuable drugs or processes, and therefore, may not provide us with sufficient competitive advantage with respect thereto. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have been greatly affected by time-consuming and expensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. We may be required to commence, or may be made a party to, litigation relating to the scope and validity of our intellectual property rights or the intellectual property rights of others. Such litigation could result in adverse decisions regarding the patentability of our inventions and products, the enforceability, validity or scope of protection offered by our patents or our infringement of patents held by others. Such decisions could make us liable for substantial money damages, or could bar us from the manufacture, sale or use of certain products. Moreover, an adverse decision may also compel us to seek a license from a third party. The costs of any license may be prohibitive and we may not be able to enter into any required licensing arrangement on terms acceptable to us. The cost to us of any litigation or proceeding relating to patent or license rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent or licensing litigation more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any patent or related litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Additionally, involvement in such proceedings could divert management attention from our operations. 21 We also may be required to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in opposition or similar proceedings before foreign patent offices and in International Trade Commission proceedings aimed at preventing the importation of drugs that would compete unfairly with our drugs. These types of proceedings could cause us to incur considerable costs. Most of our products are in early stages of development, and we may never receive regulatory approval for these products. We have devoted considerable resources to the development of potential antisense pharmaceutical products such as Genasense®, based upon oligonucleotide technology. Genasense® is our only antisense product to have been tested in humans. Tesetaxel has completed several clinical Phase 2 studies, and we plan to conduct additional clinical studies with the drug. Our products may prove to have undesirable and unintended side effects or other characteristics that may prevent our obtaining FDA or foreign regulatory approval for any indication. In addition, it is possible that research and discoveries by others will render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. Similar types of limitations apply to all our product candidates. Clinical trials are costly and time consuming and are subject to delays; our business would suffer if the development process relating to our products were subject to meaningful delays. Clinical trials are very costly and time-consuming. The length of time required to complete a clinical study depends upon many factors, including but not limited to the size of the patient population, the ability of patients to get to the site of the clinical study, the criteria for determining which patients are eligible to join the study and other issues. Delays in patient enrollment and other unforeseen developments could delay completion of a clinical study and increase its costs, which could also delay any eventual commercial sale of the drug that is the subject of the clinical trial. Our commencement and rate of completion of clinical trials also may be delayed by many other factors, including the following: · inability to obtain sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials; · inability to adequately monitor patient progress after treatment; · unforeseen safety issues; · the failure of the products to perform well during clinical trials; and · government or regulatory delays. If we fail to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, we cannot market and sell our products in the United States or in international markets. The FDA in the United States and regulatory authorities in international markets impose substantial pre-market approval requirements on the introduction of pharmaceutical products. These requirements involve lengthy and detailed preclinical and clinical testing and other costly and time-consuming procedures. Satisfaction of these requirements typically takes several years or more depending upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product. We cannot apply for regulatory approval to market any of our products under development until preclinical and clinical trials on the product are successfully completed. Several factors could prevent successful completion or cause significant delays of these trials, including an inability to enroll the required number of patients or failure to demonstrate adequately that the product is safe and effective for use in humans. If safety concerns develop, the FDA or international regulatory authorities could stop our trials before completion. We may not market or sell any product for which we have not obtained regulatory approval. We cannot assure you that the FDA will ever approve the use of our products that are under development. If the patient populations for which our products are approved are not sufficiently broad, or if approval is accompanied by unanticipated labeling restrictions, the commercial success of our products could be limited and our business, results of operations and financial condition could consequently be materially adversely affected. 22 If the third party manufacturers upon which we rely fail to produce our products in the volumes that we require on a timely basis, or to comply with stringent regulations applicable to pharmaceutical drug manufacturers, we may face delays in the commercialization of, or be unable to meet demand for, our products and may lose potential revenues. We do not manufacture any of our products or product candidates and we do not plan to develop any capacity to do so. We have contracted with third-party manufacturers to manufacture Ganite® and Genasense®. We are currently seeking a third-party manufacturer for tesetaxel. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, especially in scaling up initial production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control and assurance and shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. Our third-party manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may terminate their agreements with us. In addition to product approval, any facility in which our product candidates are manufactured or tested for its ability to meet required specifications must be approved by the FDA and/or the EMA before a commercial product can be manufactured. Failure of such a facility to be approved could delay the approval of our product candidates. We do not currently have alternate manufacturing plans in place. The number of third-party manufacturers with the expertise, required regulatory approvals and facilities to manufacture bulk drug substance on a commercial scale is limited, and it would take a significant amount of time to arrange for alternative manufacturers. If we need to change to other commercial manufacturers, the FDA and comparable foreign regulators must approve these manufacturers’ facilities and processes prior to our use, which would require new testing and compliance inspections, and the new manufacturers would have to be educated in or independently develop the processes necessary for the production of our products. Any of these factors could cause us to delay or suspend clinical trials, regulatory submissions, required approvals or commercialization of our products or product candidates, entail higher costs and result in our being unable to effectively commercialize our products. Furthermore, if our third-party manufacturers fail to deliver the required commercial quantities of bulk drug substance or finished product on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, and we were unable to promptly find one or more replacement manufacturers capable of production at a substantially equivalent cost, in substantially equivalent volume and on a timely basis, we would likely be unable to meet demand for our products and we would lose potential revenues. Even if we obtain regulatory approval, we will be subject to ongoing regulation, and any failure by us or our manufacturers to comply with such regulation could suspend or eliminate our ability to sell our products. Ganite®, Genasense® and tesetaxel (if they obtain regulatory approval), and any other product we may develop will be subject to ongoing regulatory oversight, primarily by the FDA. Failure to comply with post-marketing requirements, such as maintenance by us or by the manufacturers of our products of current Good Manufacturing Practices as required by the FDA, or safety surveillance of such products or lack of compliance with other regulations could result in suspension or limitation of approvals or other enforcement actions. Current Good Manufacturing Practices are FDA regulations that define the minimum standards that must be met by companies that manufacture pharmaceuticals and apply to all drugs for human use, including those to be used in clinical trials, as well as those produced for general sale after approval of an application by the FDA. These regulations define requirements for personnel, buildings and facilities, equipment, control of raw materials and packaging components, production and process controls, packaging and label controls, handling and distribution, laboratory controls and recordkeeping. Furthermore, the terms of any product candidate approval, including the labeling content and advertising restrictions, may be so restrictive that they could adversely affect the marketability of our product candidates. Any such failure to comply or the application of such restrictions could limit our ability to market our product candidates and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Such failures or restrictions may also prompt regulatory recalls of one or more of our products, which could have material and adverse effects on our business. 23 The raw materials for our products are produced by a limited number of suppliers, and our business could suffer if we cannot obtain needed quantities at acceptable prices and qualities. The raw materials that we require to manufacture our drugs, particularly oligonucleotides and taxanes, are available from only a few suppliers. If these suppliers cease to provide us with the necessary raw materials or fail to provide us with an adequate supply of materials at an acceptable price and quality, we could be materially adversely affected. If third-party payors do not provide coverage and reimbursement for use of our products, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our products. Our ability to commercialize drugs successfully will depend in part on the extent to which various third-party payors are willing to reimburse patients for the costs of our drugs and related treatments. These third-party payors include government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations. Third-party payors often challenge the prices charged for medical products and services. Accordingly, if less costly drugs are available, third-party payors may not authorize or may limit reimbursement for our drugs, even if they are safer or more effective than the alternatives. In addition, the federal government and private insurers have changed and continue to consider ways to change the manner in which health care products and services are provided and paid for in the United States. In particular, these third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new therapeutic products. In the future, it is possible that the government may institute price controls and further limits on Medicare and Medicaid spending. These controls and limits could affect the payments we collect from sales of our products. Internationally, medical reimbursement systems vary significantly, with some countries requiring application for, and approval of, government or third-party reimbursement. In addition, some medical centers in foreign countries have fixed budgets, regardless of levels of patient care. Even if we succeed in bringing therapeutic products to market, uncertainties regarding future health care policy, legislation and regulation, as well as private market practices, could affect our ability to sell our products in quantities, or at prices, that will enable us to achieve profitability. Our business exposes us to potential product liability that may have a negative effect on our financial performance and our business generally. The administration of drugs to humans, whether in clinical trials or commercially, exposes us to potential product and professional liability risks, which are inherent in the testing, production, marketing and sale of human therapeutic products. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and may result in large judgments or settlements against us, which could have a negative effect on our financial performance and materially and adversely affect our business. We maintain product liability insurance (subject to various deductibles), but our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover claims. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that we will always be able to maintain or increase our insurance coverage at an affordable price. Even if a product liability claim is not successful, the adverse publicity and time and expense of defending such a claim may interfere with or adversely affect our business and financial performance. We may incur a variety of costs to engage in future acquisitions of companies, products or technologies, and the anticipated benefits of those acquisitions may never be realized. As a part of our business strategy, we may make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, complementary companies, products or technologies, although no significant acquisition or investments are currently pending. Any future acquisitions would be accompanied by risks such as: · difficulties in assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired companies; · diversion of our management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; · our potential inability to maximize our financial and strategic position through the successful incorporation of acquired technology and rights into our products and services; · additional expense associated with amortization of acquired assets; 24 · maintenance of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; and · impairment of existing relationships with employees, suppliers and customers as a result of the integration of new management personnel. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully integrate any business, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future, and our failure to do so could harm our business. We face substantial competition from other companies and research institutions that are developing similar products, and we may not be able to compete successfully. In many cases, our products under development will be competing with existing therapies for market share. In addition, a number of companies are pursuing the development of antisense technology and controlled-release formulation technology and the development of pharmaceuticals utilizing such technologies. We compete with fully integrated pharmaceutical companies that have more substantial experience, financial and other resources and superior expertise in research and development, manufacturing, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals, marketing and distribution. Smaller companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through their collaborative arrangements with large pharmaceutical companies or academic institutions. Furthermore, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations have conducted and will continue to conduct research, seek patent protection and establish arrangements for commercializing products. Such products may compete directly with any products that may be offered by us. Our competition will be determined in part by the potential indications for which our products are developed and ultimately approved by regulatory authorities. For certain of our potential products, an important factor in competition may be the timing of market introduction of our or our competitors’ products. Accordingly, the relative speed with which we can develop products, complete the clinical trials and approval processes and supply commercial quantities of the products to the market are expected to be important competitive factors. We expect that competition among products approved for sale will be based, among other things, on product efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, price, patent position and sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. The development by others of new treatment methods could render our products under development non-competitive or obsolete. Our competitive position also depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, obtain patent protection, or otherwise develop proprietary products or processes and secure sufficient capital resources for the often-substantial period between technological conception and commercial sales. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in this regard. We are dependent on our key executives and scientists, and the loss of key personnel or the failure to attract additional qualified personnel could harm our business. Our business is highly dependent on our key executives and scientific staff. The loss of key personnel or the failure to recruit necessary additional or replacement personnel will likely impede the achievement of our development objectives. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, and there can be no assurances that we will be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. 25 Risks Related to Outstanding Litigation The outcome of and costs relating to pending litigation are uncertain. In September 2008, several of our stockholders, on behalf of themselves and all others similarly situated, filed a class action complaint against us, our Board of Directors, and certain of our executive officers in Superior Court of New Jersey, captioned Collins v. Warrell, Docket No. L-3046-08. The complaint alleged that in issuing convertible notes in June 2008, our Board of Directors, and certain officers breached their fiduciary duties, and we aided and abetted the breach of fiduciary duty. On March 20, 2009, the Superior Court of New Jersey granted our motion to dismiss the class action complaint and dismissed the complaint with prejudice. On April 30, 2009, the plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal with the Appellate Division. On May 13, 2009, the plaintiffs filed a motion for relief from judgment based on a claim of new evidence, which was denied on June 12, 2009. The plaintiffs also asked the Appellate Division for a temporary remand to permit the Superior Court judge to resolve the issues of the new evidence plaintiffs sought to raise and the Appellate Division granted the motion for temporary remand. Following the briefing and a hearing, the Superior Court denied the motion for relief from judgment on August 28, 2009. Thus, this matter proceeded in the Appellate Division. Plaintiffs’ brief before the Appellate Division was filed on October 28, 2009, and our responsive brief was filed on January 27, 2010. The plaintiffs’ reply brief was filed on March 15, 2010. We are currently awaiting a decision from the Appellate Division on this matter. At this time, we cannot estimate when the Appellate Division will rule on the appeal. We intend to continue our vigorous defense of this matter. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may discourage a takeover and prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage third parties from seeking to obtain control of us and, therefore, could prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares. Our restated certificate of incorporation gives our Board of Directors the power to issue shares of preferred stock without approval of the holders of common stock. Any preferred stock that is issued in the future could have voting rights, including voting rights that could be superior to that of our common stock. The affirmative vote of 66 2/3% of our voting stock is required to approve certain transactions and to take certain stockholder actions, including the amendment of certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation. Our bylaws contain provisions that regulate how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at annual meetings of stockholders. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which contains restrictions on stockholder action to acquire control of us. In September 2005, our Board of Directors approved a Stockholder Rights Plan and declared a dividend of one preferred stock purchase right, which we refer to as a Right, for each share of our common stock held of record as of the close of business on September 27, 2005. In addition, Rights shall be issued in respect of all shares of common stock issued after such date. The Rights contain provisions to protect stockholders in the event of an unsolicited attempt to acquire us, including an accumulation of shares in the open market, a partial or two-tier tender offer that does not treat all stockholders equally and other activities that the Board believes are not in the best interests of stockholders. The Rights may discourage a takeover and prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares. We have not paid, and do not expect to pay in the future, cash dividends on our common stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any such dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain our earnings, if any, for the development of our business. 26 We may implement a reverse stock split prior to December 31, 2011. At a Special Meeting of Stockholders held on December 29, 2010, our stockholders authorized our Board of Directors to implement two reverse stock splits prior to December 31, 2011, with each stock split having an exchange ratio from 1-for-2 up to 1-for-100. We implemented a reverse stock split having a ratio of 1-for-50 on February 18, 2011. Our Board may decide to implement an additional reverse stock split prior to December 31, 2011. Our stock price is volatile. The market price of our common stock has been and likely will continue to be highly volatile. Factors that could have a significant impact on the future price of our common stock include, but are not limited to: · the results of preclinical studies and clinical trials by us or our competitors; · announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic products by us or our competitors; · government regulation; · developments in patent or other proprietary rights by us or our respective competitors, including litigation; · fluctuations in our operating results; and · market conditions for biopharmaceutical stocks in general. At December 31, 2010, we had 3.3 million shares of common stock outstanding and 311.4 million shares reserved for the conversion of our outstanding convertible preferred stock, convertible notes, warrants, debt warrants, outstanding restricted stock units and shares issuable upon the exercise of purchase rights of our noteholders. Future sales of shares of our common stock by existing stockholders, holders of preferred stock who might convert such preferred stock into common stock, holders of convertible notes who might convert such convertible notes into common stock and option and warrant holders who may exercise their options and warrants to purchase common stock also could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Moreover, the perception that sales of substantial amounts of our common stock might occur could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As our convertible noteholders convert their notes and warrants into shares of our common stock, our stockholders will be diluted. The conversion of some or all of our notes and warrants dilutes the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon conversion of the notes could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could depress the price of our common stock. If there is significant downward pressure on the price of our common stock, it may encourage holders of notes or others to sell shares by means of short sales to the extent permitted under the U.S. securities laws. Short sales involve the sale by a holder of notes, usually with a future delivery date, of common stock the seller does not own. Covered short sales are sales made in an amount not greater than the number of shares subject to the short seller’s right to acquire common stock, such as upon conversion of notes. A holder of notes may close out any covered short position by converting its notes or purchasing shares in the open market. In determining the source of shares to close out the covered short position, a holder of notes will likely consider, among other things, the price of common stock available for purchase in the open market as compared to the conversion price of the notes. The existence of a significant number of short sales generally causes the price of common stock to decline, in part because it indicates that a number of market participants are taking a position that will be profitable only if the price of the common stock declines. 27 Our common stock is considered a “penny stock” and does not qualify for exemption from the “penny stock” restrictions, which may make it more difficult for you to sell your shares. Our common stock is classified as a “penny stock” by the SEC and is subject to rules adopted by the SEC regulating broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in “penny stocks.” The SEC has adopted regulations which define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, these rules require delivery, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule relating to the penny stock market. Disclosure is also required to be made about current quotations for the securities and about commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative. Finally, broker-dealers must send monthly statements to purchasers of penny stocks disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. As a result of our shares of common stock being subject to the rules on penny stocks, the liquidity of our common stock may be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 