Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information in this report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. Our stock price may be volatile, and an investment in our stock could suffer a decline in value. Although we reported net income of $9.6 million, $28.1 million and $21.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, we have experienced significant operating losses in the past, and as of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $134.4 million. If our operating expenses were to increase or if we were not able to increase or sustain revenue, we may not achieve profitability over the next 12 months. The market price of our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, substantial volatility due to many factors, some of which we have no control over, including: • developments related to the pending SEC and DOJ investigations, our efforts to cooperate with the investigations and events related to pending litigations; • government regulatory action affecting our Company or our drug products or our competitors’ drug products in China, the US and other foreign countries, including the effect of government initiatives in China to reduce health care costs, including the change in the governmentally permitted maximum listed price for ZADAXIN (“thymosin alpha 1” or “thymalfasin”) and our other products on the market in China; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results some of which may result from acquisition-related expenses including the variation in the valuation of the earn-out, and periodic impairment charges that have and may result from the goodwill and intangible assets recorded in the acquisition; 19 Table of Contents • progress and results of clinical trials and the regulatory approval process in Europe and in China; • our ability to manage the risks associated with our acquisition of NovaMed Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“NovaMed”); • timing and achievement of our corporate milestones; • changes in our agreements or relationships with collaborative partners; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • announcement and completion of corporate acquisition, merger, licensing or marketing arrangements, or sales of assets; • developments or disputes concerning patent or proprietary rights; • changes in the composition of our management team or board of directors; • changes in company assessments or financial estimates by securities analysts; • changes in assessments of our internal control over financial reporting; • general stock market conditions and fluctuations for the emerging growth and pharmaceutical market sectors; • unanticipated increases in our G&A expense due to legal and accounting expenses, including expenses relating to the governmental investigations, our disputes with MEDA and with the former stockholders of NovaMed, and arising out of matters relating to any additional or uncorrected control deficiency or related matters; • economic and political conditions in the US or abroad particularly in China; and • broad financial market fluctuations in the US, Europe or Asia. Our acquisition of NovaMed involves a number of risks and although we believe we have substantially completed the integration there are some challenges that still could affect us and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition; and we may acquire other companies or products that present similar risks. We believe we have substantially completed the integration of our NovaMed acquisition and the two companies’ operations and personnel and have begun to utilize common business, information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls and human resources practices. We have experienced a number of challenges in the process of integration which have had, and could have further adverse affects on our business. These challenges include: • diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business which could adversely affect ongoing operations, including matters relating to the restatement of our financial results and material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting identified in the third and fourth quarters of 2012; • retaining key employees of both organizations, including recently announced executive departures and potential additional turnover; • managing the acquisition and continuing operations in both organizations to successfully achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition; • preserving important relationships of both SciClone and NovaMed, including NovaMed’s contractual relationships with pharmaceutical partners; • costs and delays in implementing common systems and procedures; • consolidating and rationalizing information technology and administrative infrastructures; 20 Table of Contents • the potential for disputes or litigation related to the escrow and indemnification provisions, including the claims we have made under those provisions, and the uncertainty as to the results of such dispute or any further dispute; • variability in our financial results which may result from acquisition-related expenses including the variation in the valuation of the earn-out, and periodic impairment charges that have and may result from the recording of goodwill in the acquisition; • the effectiveness of our efforts to improve the performance of NovaMed, including our effort to negotiate renewals of agreements with third parties and to improve the financial terms for agreements relating to promotional service revenues; • implementing procedures, policies and processes related to FCPA compliance; and • integrating and documenting processes and controls in conformance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 which were not applicable to NovaMed prior to the acquisition. We may enter into other acquisition transactions in the future which could present similar risks and may also cause us to: • issue common stock that would dilute our current shareholders’ percentage ownership; • assume liabilities, some of which may be unknown at the time of such acquisitions; • record goodwill and intangible assets that have been and will be subject to impairment testing and potential periodic impairment charges; • incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; and • incur large and immediate write-offs of in-process research and development costs; or become subject to litigation. Any one or all of these factors, many of which are outside of our control, may increase operating costs or lower anticipated financial performance following the NovaMed acquisition, or following any future acquisition. In addition, the combined company may lose customers, distributors, suppliers, manufacturers, partners and employees. Any diversion of management’s attention to address these factors and any difficulties associated with the acquisition of NovaMed, or of companies or products we may acquire in the future could have a material adverse effect on the operating results of the company and on the value of our common stock, and could result in our not achieving the anticipated synergies and benefits of the acquisition underlying the two companies’ reasons for the merger. Failure to achieve our objectives could have a material adverse effect on the business and operating results of the company. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we determined that the carrying value of our intangible assets related to the promotion and distribution contract rights we acquired as part of the acquisition of NovaMed were no longer recoverable. As a result, we recognized a non-cash impairment loss of approximately $42.7 million, which adversely affected our financial results and could adversely affect the market value of our common stock. If the value of our goodwill asset becomes impaired, we may be required to incur further material impairment charges. Our revenue will continue to be substantially dependent on our sale of ZADAXIN in China. The China government recently imposed price restrictions on ZADAXIN, Aggrastat and several of our oncology products. If we experience difficulties in our sales efforts as a result, our operating results and financial condition will be harmed. Our product revenue is highly dependent on the sale of ZADAXIN in China. As a result of additional product sales resulting from the NovaMed acquisition in 2011, we expect that the percentage of our revenues that 21 Table of Contents come from the sale of ZADAXIN in China will decline significantly. However, we anticipate that sales of ZADAXIN will continue to be a majority of our revenue for at least the next two years. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, approximately 96%, 97% and 96%, respectively, of our ZADAXIN sales were to customers in China. Sales of ZADAXIN in China may be limited due to the low average personal income, lack of patient cost reimbursement, poorly developed infrastructure and competition from other products, including generics. ZADAXIN sales growth in recent years has benefited from the rapidly growing Chinese economy and growing personal disposable income. Sales of ZADAXIN in China could be adversely affected by a slowing or downturn of the Chinese economy and from the recent and future decisions of the National Development and Reform Commission (“NDRC”) and provincial agencies pricing reform. In China, ZADAXIN is approved for the treatment of hepatitis B virus (“HBV”) and as a vaccine adjuvant. We face competition from pharmaceutical companies who are aggressively marketing competing products for the treatment of HBV and for other indications where we believe ZADAXIN may be used on an off-label basis. In addition, several local companies are selling lower-priced, locally manufactured generic thymalfasin, which is a competitive product and is selling in substantial and increasing quantities. While generic products outsell ZADAXIN in unit volumes, we have been able to maintain a pricing advantage through the reputation of our imported, branded product. We believe such competition will continue with added new local manufacturers of generic thymalfasin and there could be a negative impact on the price and the volume of ZADAXIN sold in China, which would harm our business. Our efforts to in-license or acquire other pharmaceutical products for marketing in China and other markets may be unsuccessful or even if successful may not have a meaningful effect on our dependence on ZADAXIN sales in those markets. The Chinese government is increasing its efforts to reduce overall health care costs, including pricing controls on pharmaceutical products. Individual provinces in China and, in some cases, individual hospitals can and have established pricing requirements for a product to be included on formulary lists. In some cases, these prices have been significantly lower than our distributors have been selling ZADAXIN, in which case we have been removed from formulary lists, which consequently has reduced sales to certain hospitals and could adversely affect our future sales. The price for pharmaceutical products is regulated in China both at the national and at the provincial level. The process and timing for price restrictions is unpredictable. In addition, we are aware that ZADAXIN may be used on an off-label basis, and the Chinese government’s pricing, reimbursement or other actions might reduce such uses. In November 2009, thymalfasin, the generic chemical name for our pharmaceutical product ZADAXIN, was included as a Category B product in the NRDL and pricing for ZADAXIN on the NRDL was recently reviewed by the authorities. As a result of this review, the retail list price (or the price at the hospital pharmacy level) of ZADAXIN was reduced by approximately 18% in China. The reduction was announced September 2012 and became effective October 8, 2012. Based on an agreement with our primary importer of ZADAXIN into China, our importer will take a larger share of the price reduction impact, and the actual impact on SciClone’s revenue and margins is expected to be less than a 5% decrease in our sales price of ZADAXIN to the importer in China. In exchange for this favorable arrangement, we expanded exclusivity for the importer. In addition, the NDRC price of Aggrastat, as well as several of our oncology products exclusively promoted in China for Pfizer and Baxter were reduced ranging from 10 to 20%. We have not negotiated any particular arrangement regarding the sharing of these price reductions for products other than ZADAXIN with our partners, but generally, under our agreements, the effect on our per unit revenues would be approximately half of the reduction in retail price at the hospital level. These regulations, as well as regulation of the importation of pharmaceutical products have reduced and may further reduce prices for ZADAXIN or our other products to levels significantly below those that would prevail in an unregulated market, limit the volume of product which may be imported and sold or place high import duties on the product, any of which may limit the growth of our revenues or cause them to decline. We expected that a price reduction for ZADAXIN and Aggrastat would be announced during 2012 and assumed a price reduction in our operating plan, and we believe we will be able to successfully manage our 22 Table of Contents business in China through this process; however, further price reductions could be set at some time in the future which could adversely affect our results or require substantial changes in our business model which may be difficult to implement. Sales of ZADAXIN may also fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to financing limitations on importers, changes in inventory levels at our customers, and surges in sales and inventories due to epidemics. Importers and distributors of ZADAXIN borrow funds in China from banks to purchase, hold and distribute ZADAXIN. Substantial increases in restrictions on fund availability and/or increases in borrowing costs could limit the ability of our importers and distributors to finance their import and distribution process. Further, our customers tend to purchase large orders, and if channels or distribution change, inventory levels may fluctuate significantly, potentially affecting quarterly periodic results. During the third quarter, and particularly in September 2012, we estimate that there was an increase of approximately $14 million in ZADAXIN channel inventory levels and we believe that our sales to our customers exceeded the pace at which our customers were able to sell ZADAXIN through to other parties, primarily hospital pharmacies. ZADAXIN channel inventory levels decreased by approximately $5 million in the fourth quarter of 2012, and we expect them to continue to decrease over the next two quarters. As a result, we expect that ZADAXIN revenues will be lower in the first half of 2013, compared to the first half of 2012. We expect our 2013 sales revenue to be lower than or comparable to our 2012 revenues of $156 million. We continue to believe that we will grow demand for ZADAXIN through increased penetration in the market. We have revised and we are implementing changes in our strategy for ZADAXIN market penetration. In addition, we believe that our sales organization’s efforts may have been affected by turnover, particularly at senior management levels. We are recruiting experienced new senior-level sales and other management, particularly following the announced departures of two of our senior executives in China. We are also taking other measures which may address the channel build-up, including working with one importer on an exclusive basis and implementing various programs to expand market demand. There may be additional departures in our China operations. During this transition period, and if we are unable to achieve our objectives for increased demand, we may experience declines in our quarterly sales revenue in the near term and our sales and profitability for the next few quarters may significantly decrease as compared to the preceding quarter. In addition, during the second quarter of 2009, we experienced a strong upsurge in ZADAXIN sales which we believe was attributable both to the increasing penetration of ZADAXIN within the Chinese market, as well as concerns in China from the H1N1 influenza virus. If distributors and hospitals that purchase ZADAXIN stockpile more ZADAXIN than needed for current use, our sales of ZADAXIN may suffer as distributors and hospitals use ZADAXIN already in their inventory before purchasing additional product from us. This could lead to uneven future revenue results for ZADAXIN and in turn materially impact our cash flow and business condition. Our revenue will continue to be substantially dependent on our maintaining regulatory licenses and compliance with other regulations. We have received regulatory approvals to import and market ZADAXIN in China and to manufacture ZADAXIN and export the product from Italy. In order to continue our sales to China, we need to maintain these approvals. Our license to import ZADAXIN into China needs to be renewed every five years and the next renewal is required in 2017. Although we were successful in obtaining a renewal in 2003, 2008 and 2012, there is no assurance that we will receive renewals in the future when applied for or that the renewals will not be conditioned or limited in ways that limit our ability to sell ZADAXIN to China. Our licenses to manufacture and export ZADAXIN from Italy are dependent upon our continuing compliance with regulations in Italy. Our business would be adversely affected if we are not able to maintain these approvals. In order to sell ZADAXIN to the licensed importers in China, our manufacturers must 1) be 23 Table of Contents approved by the Italian Ministry of Health (“AIFA”) and 2) be accepted by the State Food and Drug Administration of China (“SFDA”). Some manufacturing changes may require: 1) approval by AIFA in Italy and/or 2) be accepted by the SFDA, the Chinese equivalent of the FDA. In addition, we must obtain an Imported Drug License (“IDL”) from the SFDA permitting the importation of ZADAXIN into China in order to sell ZADAXIN to the licensed importers in China. ZADAXIN registration in Italy has been essential to the renewal of our IDL from the SFDA permitting the importation of ZADAXIN into China. Our ability to continue to renew our IDL from the SFDA permitting the importation of ZADAXIN into China could be adversely affected, if we were to fail to maintain ZADAXIN registration in Italy. The SFDA, AIFA and other regulatory agencies may, and have, changed their internal administrative rules in ways that may delay or complicate the regulatory approval process. Those changes are not always disclosed or known to us and we may experience unexpected delays or additional costs as a result of such changes. Our product has been distributed in Italy through BioFutura Pharma Srl (“BioFutura”), a subsidiary of Sigma-Tau Finanziaria, S.p.A. (“Sigma-Tau”). In August 2012, we entered into an agreement with BioFutura to continue to distribute ZADAXIN for SciClone in Italy. However, if we are not able to continue this arrangement, we will need to establish alternative distribution operations in Italy to ensure continuing compliance with regulations in Italy and maintain our Italian licenses. Our ZADAXIN sales and operations in other parts of China and the world are subject to a number of risks and increasing regulations, including difficulties and delays in obtaining registrations, renewals of registrations, permits, pricing approvals and reimbursement, increasing regulation of product promotion and selling practices, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and political instability. We face risks related to the potential outcomes of the SEC investigation regarding FCPA compliance and other matters and DOJ investigation regarding the FCPA including potential penalties, substantial expenses and the use of significant management time and attention, and changes in our marketing and sales practices that could affect our ability to generate revenue, any of which could adversely affect our business. In August 2010, we received notices of investigations by US government agencies that relate to our operations in China including compliance with the FCPA and we subsequently initiated an internal investigation regarding these matters. In connection with the formal, non public SEC investigation, the SEC issued a subpoena to us requesting documents regarding a range of matters including but not limited to documents relating to potential payments or transfer of anything of value to regulators and government-owned entities in China; documents relating to bids or contracts with state or government-owned entities in China; documents relating to intermediary or local agent of the Company in China; documents regarding the Company’s ethics and anti-corruption policies, training, and audits; and documents relating to certain Company financial and other disclosures made by the Company. The DOJ is currently conducting an investigation of us in connection with compliance with the FCPA, as to which they have advised us that the DOJ has information about the Company’s practices suggesting possible violations. We have been cooperating with, and will continue to cooperate with, the investigations by and inquiries from the SEC and DOJ. In response to these matters, our Board of Directors appointed the Special Committee of independent directors to oversee our response to the government inquiry. The Special Committee conducted an independent investigation as to matters reflected in and arising from the SEC and DOJ investigations including, but not limited to, certain sales and marketing matters in China, in order to evaluate whether any violation of the FCPA or other laws occurred. The Special Committee substantially concluded its investigation of those matters and on May 4 and 5, 2011 reported its findings and recommendations to the Board of Directors. The Special Committee reached a number of findings, including that we lacked appropriate internal controls to assure compliance with laws, including the FCPA, with respect to sales and marketing practices including payments for, or reimbursement of, third party gifts, travel and entertainment expenses, and sponsorships of certain conferences and symposia. The Special Committee identified evidence of sales and marketing activities that might constitute potential violations of the FCPA. We are undertaking certain remedial measures recommended by the Special Committee and adopted by our Board of Directors. 24 Table of Contents In the Company’s Form 10-Q for the period ending September 30, 2012, filed with the SEC on November 9, 2012, the Company disclosed, among other things, a non-cash impairment loss to fully write down the value of intangible assets recorded as part of the NovaMed acquisition; a remeasurement of the valuation of the contingent consideration expense recorded as part of the NovaMed acquisition; a significant increase in ZADAXIN channel inventory levels; and internal control issues primarily within the NovaMed organization that were concluded to represent a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting. Following our disclosure of these items, the Company received a subpoena from the SEC requesting documents related to these and various other matters regarding the NovaMed acquisition and the Company’s operations in China. After review of the subpoena, and in order to respond to inquiries from the DOJ and SEC and to determine if any wrong-doing occurred, the Audit Committee determined to undertake an additional independent investigation as to additional matters, including, but not limited to, matters related to our acquisition of NovaMed and FCPA matters. We are unable to predict what consequences any investigation by any regulatory agency or by our Audit or Special Committees may have on us. Our cooperation with these investigations has resulted in substantial legal and accounting expenses, has diverted management’s attention from other business concerns and could harm our business. The ongoing investigations and any other regulatory investigations that might be initiated in the future will result in similar substantial expenses, management diversion and harm to our business. If we fail to comply with regulations or to carry out controls on our Chinese or other foreign operations in a manner that satisfies all applicable laws, our business would be harmed. Any civil or criminal action commenced against us by a regulatory agency could result in administrative orders against us, the imposition of significant penalties and/or fines against us, and/or the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions against certain of our officers, directors and/or employees. The investigations, results of the investigations, or remedial actions we have taken or may take as a result of such investigations may adversely affect our business in China. If we are subject to adverse findings resulting from the SEC and DOJ investigations, or from our own independent investigation, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed upon us. In addition, we will incur additional expenses related to remedial measures we are undertaking, and could incur fines or other penalties. The period of time necessary to resolve the investigations by the DOJ and the SEC is uncertain, and these matters could require significant management and financial resources which could otherwise be devoted to the operation of our business. If we fail to achieve or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and to protect from fraudulent, illegal or unauthorized transactions. If we cannot establish effective controls and provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. Moreover, as a US-based corporation doing business in China, these controls often need to satisfy the requirements of Chinese law as well as the requirements of US law which frequently differ in certain aspects. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls that need improvement. For example, during the third quarter of 2012, our management determined that we had a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting related to the design and operation of our controls primarily associated with product returns reserves and the override of certain controls in the financial statement close process related to our NovaMed subsidiary. Furthermore, during the fourth quarter of 2012, our management determined that we had an additional indicator of the same material weakness related to the timing of revenue recognition for our Pfizer products and the override of related controls at our NovaMed subsidiary, and the corporate monitoring thereof. As of December 31, 2010, we also had two material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting related to our controls over (i) our implementation of our policy on compliance with laws and (ii) our accounting for income taxes. We continue to work on improvements to our internal controls and there can be no assurance that these or other material weaknesses will not occur in the future, or otherwise cause us to inaccurately report our financial statements. For example, our recently announced restatement of our financial statements for each of our 25 Table of Contents first, second, and third quarters of 2012, and our financial statements for each of the second and third quarters of 2011 and the year ended December 31, 2011, were in part caused by our material weakness related to the design and operation of our controls discussed above. Any failure to implement and maintain controls over our financial reporting or difficulties encountered in the implementation of improvements in our controls, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Any failure to improve our internal controls or to address identified weaknesses in the future, if they were to occur, could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative impact on the trading price of our stock. Compliance with changing regulations concerning corporate governance and public disclosure has resulted in and may continue to result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and The NASDAQ Stock Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours and costs are increasing as a result of this uncertainty and other factors. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment has and may continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. We may not be able to effectively manage our employees and distribution network, and our reputation, business, prospects and brand may be materially and adversely affected by actions taken by our distributors and third party marketing firms. We do not control, and therefore have limited ability to manage, the activities of third-parties who assist us in marketing and distributing our products. Our distributors or other third parties could violate the anti-corruption laws of China, the United States or other countries. Our company policies prohibit our employees from making improper payments to hospitals or otherwise engaging in improper activities to influence the procurement decisions of hospitals, and we take remedial actions, including termination, when employees do not adhere to our policies. However, we may not be able to effectively ensure that every employee complies at all times with our policies. The compensation of our sales and marketing personnel is partially linked to their sales performance. Although we have made numerous changes to ensure compliance with our policies and to attempt to avoid any violation of law, we cannot assure you that employees will not violate the anticorruption laws of China, the United States and other countries. Such violations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, prospects and brand. Furthermore, our employees in China have access to our facilities and internal systems and we have identified from time to time certain minor instances of improperly submitted expense reporting. Although these instances have involved insignificant sums, our employees may seek to create additional opportunities to engage in misappropriation or other employee malfeasance. If our controls and procedures to prevent such activities fail or are circumvented, our business would be negatively affected by, among other things, the related financial losses, diminished reputation and threat of litigation and regulatory inquiry and investigation. We do not control, and therefore have limited ability to manage, the activities of third-parties who assist us in marketing and distributing our products. Our distributors or other third parties with whom we do business could take actions which violate the anti-corruption laws of China, the United States or other countries. Failure to adequately manage our employees, and third parties and, or their non-compliance with employment, distribution or marketing agreements, could harm our corporate image among hospitals and end users of our products and disrupt our sales, resulting in a failure to meet our sales goals. Furthermore, we could be liable for actions taken by our employees, distributors or third-party marketing or third party firms, including any violations of applicable law in connection with the marketing or sale of our products, including China’s anticorruption laws and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of the United States, or the FCPA. In particular, if our employees, distributors or third-party marketing firms make any payments that are forbidden under the FCPA, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties imposed by the US government. 26 Table of Contents Recently, the Chinese government has increased its anti-corruption measures. In the pharmaceutical industry, corrupt practices include, among others, acceptance of kickbacks, bribes or other illegal gains or benefits by the hospitals and medical practitioners from pharmaceutical manufacturers and distributors in connection with the prescription of certain pharmaceuticals. Our employees, affiliates, distributors or third-party marketing firms may violate these laws or otherwise engage in illegal practices with respect to their sales or marking of our products or other activities involving our products. If our employees, affiliates, distributors or third-party marketing firms violate these laws, we could be required to pay damages or fines, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Chinese laws regarding what types of payments to promote or sell our products are impermissible are not always clear, and local regulatory authorities enforcing these laws are not always consistent. As a result, we, our employees, affiliates, our distributors or third-party marketing firms could make certain payments in connection with the promotion or sale of our products or other activities involving our products which at the time are considered by us or them to be legal but are later deemed impermissible by the Chinese government, or we may be asked to make payments by local government authorities that may not be permissible under China’s anticorruption laws or the FCPA. Furthermore, our brand and reputation, our sales activities or the price of our common stock could be adversely affected if we become the target of any negative publicity as a result of actions taken by our employees, affiliates, distributors or third-party marketing firms. Our compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act may put us at a competitive disadvantage, while our failure to comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act may result in substantial penalties. As a US reporting company, we are required to comply with the FCPA. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in practices in violation of the FCPA, we could suffer severe penalties. Non-US companies, including some of our competitors, are not subject to the provisions of the FCPA. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time to time in mainland China. If our competitors engage in these practices, they may receive preferential treatment from personnel of some companies, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business or from government officials who might give them priority in their business dealings, which would put us at a disadvantage. Retaliation from terminated employees may damage our reputation or make claims that could subject us to further regulatory action. From time to time we have terminated the employment of certain employees for performance related reasons, including, in particular, our policies intended to prevent corruption. Employees who are terminated may seek more favorable terms of separation by threatening to damage our reputation in the marketplace. Further, they may seek to retaliate against us by making so-called “whistleblower” claims under the provisions enacted by the Dodd-Frank Act that may entitle persons who report alleged wrong-doing to the SEC to cash rewards. We anticipate that these provisions will result in a significant increase in whistleblower claims across our industry, and dealing with such claims could generate significant expenses and take up significant management time, even for frivolous and non-meritorious claims. Any investigations of whistleblower claims may impose additional expense on us, may require the attention of senior management and members of the Board of Directors and may result in fines and/or reputational damage whether or not we are deemed to have violated any regulations. Furthermore, terminated employees may also seek to retaliate against us by making claims against us to other regulatory agencies, including local regulatory authorities. Inquiries by local regulatory agencies about such claims, even if frivolous and non-meritorious, could also generate significant expenses and take up significant management and Board time. We are at risk of additional securities class action and derivative lawsuits. Securities class action and derivative lawsuits are often filed against public companies following a decline in the market price of their securities. After our announcement regarding SEC and DOJ investigations in 2010, we and certain of our officers and directors were named as parties in purported stockholder class actions and 27 Table of Contents derivative lawsuits. Those class action lawsuits were dismissed and we have settled those derivative lawsuits. Our stock price declined following the announcement of a restatement of our financial statements for fiscal 2011 and the first three quarters of fiscal 2012, and that our independent auditing firm had elected not to stand for reappointment for the 2013 fiscal year. Soon after that announcement, we and certain of our officers and directors were named as parties in a purported derivative lawsuit relating to the restatement. We may experience stock price volatility in the future, either related to announcements regarding the SEC and DOJ investigation, our own investigations related thereto or other matters. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology companies have experienced greater than average stock price volatility in recent years. We may be named in additional litigation, which will require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses and may result in an unfavorable outcome which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Such litigation could result in additional substantial costs and a diversion of management’s and the Board’s attention and resources, which could harm our business. We may not be able to successfully develop or commercialize our products. Following the acquisition of NovaMed, we have numerous products under development in China and during 2011 and the first quarter of 2012, we were developing SCV-07, a small molecule synthetic peptide with immunomodulating properties, in a phase 2b clinical trial in the US for the delayed onset of oral mucositis (“OM”). Clinical trials are inherently risky and may reveal that our product candidates are ineffective or have unanticipated side effects and/or drug interactions that may significantly decrease the likelihood of regulatory approval. For example, in March 2012 we announced the discontinuation of our phase 2b clinical trial evaluating SCV-07 for the delayed onset of OM. This decision was based on the results of a pre-planned interim analysis that indicated that the trial would not meet the pre-specified efficacy endpoints, and we have no plans to proceed with further development of SCV-07 at this time. The regulatory approval processes in the US, Europe and China are demanding, lengthy and expensive. We have committed significant resources, including capital and time, to develop and seek approval for products under development, and if we do not obtain approvals we are seeking, we may be unable to achieve any revenue from these products. All new drugs, including our product candidates, are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by the FDA, SFDA and similar regulatory agencies. These regulations govern, among other things, the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, pre-market approval, importation, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of our products. These regulations may change from time to time and new regulations may be adopted. Satisfaction of government regulations may take several years and the time needed to satisfy them varies substantially based on the type, complexity and novelty of the pharmaceutical product. As a result, government regulation may cause us to delay the introduction of, or prevent us from marketing, our existing or potential products for a considerable period of time and impose costly procedures upon our activities. We have experienced delays in the regulatory process and continue to experience delays, and there exists risk that we may not receive approval, including with the approval process for DC Bead or other in-licensed products. In addition, the Chinese government is increasing its efforts to reduce overall health care costs, including pricing controls on pharmaceutical products. We cannot determine what the potential government pricing constraints are likely to be for products in development in advance. Therefore, we may be required to abandon the development or commercialization of a product after significant effort and expense if we determine at any time that trends in government pricing constraints will make the commercialization of a product unprofitable. To fully develop these products and other products we may acquire, substantial resources are required for extensive research, development, pre-clinical testing, clinical trials, and manufacturing scale-up and regulatory approval prior to the potential products being ready for sale. We cannot assure that our efforts will produce commercially viable products. We face significant technological risks inherent in developing these products. We 28 Table of Contents may also abandon some or all of our proposed products before they become commercially viable. We are obligated to make a milestone payment upon regulatory approval of certain products under development. If any of our products, even if developed and approved, cannot be successfully commercialized in a timely manner, our business will be harmed and the price of our stock may decline. Market acceptance of any product that is successfully developed and approved will depend on many factors, including our ability to convince prospective customers to use our products as an alternative to other treatments and therapies. In addition, doctors must opt to use treatments involving our products. If doctors elect to use a different course of treatment, demand for our drug products would be reduced. In addition, for certain products we may need to convince partners to manufacture or market our products. Failure to do any of the above will lead to an unfavorable outcome on the results of our operations. Our success is dependent upon the success of our sales and marketing efforts in China, and we may experience difficulties in complying with regulations, slow collections or other matters that could adversely affect our revenue in China. Following the acquisition of NovaMed, we have numerous products on the market in China in addition to ZADAXIN. Our future revenue growth depends to a great extent on increased sales of ZADAXIN to China and increased sales of the products promoted or marketed by NovaMed. If we fail to continue to successfully market ZADAXIN or NovaMed’s product portfolio, our revenue and operating results will be limited. If unexpected and serious adverse events are reported, or if expected efficacy results are not achieved, it would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our sales are concentrated in China and we face risks relating to operating in a China, including pricing and other regulations, slow payment cycles and exposure to fluctuations in the Chinese economy. The Chinese government is increasing its efforts to reduce overall health care costs, including pricing controls on pharmaceutical products. Individual provinces in China and, in some cases, individual hospitals can and have established pricing requirements for a product to be included on formulary lists. The Chinese government has recently imposed price restrictions on ZADAXIN, Aggrastat and various oncology products we promote. The national reimbursement retail list price, or hospital pharmacy level price, of ZADAXIN has been reduced by approximately 18% in China. Based on an agreement with our primary importer of ZADAXIN into China, our importer will take a larger share of the price reduction impact, and the actual impact on SciClone’s revenue and margins is expected to be less than a 5% decrease in our sales price of ZADAXIN to the importer in China. In exchange for this favorable arrangement, we expanded exclusivity for the importer. Over the long term, we believe that the price reductions may positively affect our sales volumes and result in broader penetration into Tier 3 and Tier 2 cities in target geographies, potentially increasing our total sales revenues from these products. However, the process and timing for any price restrictions is unpredictable and further price reduction could be imposed that could adversely affect our business. Further, the successful sales and marketing of all of NovaMed’s products requires continuing compliance with other regulations in China relating to the import, manufacture, approval and distribution of products and if we or our partners are not able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses or other approvals, our operations would be adversely affected. We experience other issues with managing sales operations in China including long payment cycles, potential difficulties in timely accounts receivable collection and, especially from significant customers, fluctuations in the timing and amount of orders and the adverse effect of any of these issues on our business could be increased due to the concentration of our business with a small number of distributors. Problems with collections from, or sales to, any one of those distributors could materially adversely affect our results. Operations in foreign countries including China also expose us to risks relating to difficulties in enforcing our proprietary rights, currency fluctuations and adverse or deteriorating economic conditions. If we experience problems with these matters, or if significant political, economic or regulatory changes occur, our results could be adversely affected. 29 Table of Contents Our operations throughout the world including China are potentially subject to the laws and regulations of the US including the FCPA, in addition to the laws and regulations of the other countries. Regulation in China of the activities in the pharmaceutical industry has increased and may continue to undergo significant and unanticipated changes. A number of companies have faced significant expenses or fines as a result of the increasing regulation of, and enforcement activity regarding, the pharmaceutical industry. Currently all of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the US, and a substantial portion of our assets, including employees, are located outside the US. US income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings of non-US subsidiaries, because such earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. The US government may propose initiatives that would substantially reduce our ability to defer US taxes including: repealing deferral of US taxation of foreign earnings, eliminating utilization or substantially reducing our ability to claim foreign tax credits, and eliminating various tax deductions until foreign earnings are repatriated to the US. If any of these proposals are constituted into legislation, they could increase our US income tax liability and as a result have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. Our business strategy is dependent in part upon our agreements with third parties for the rights to develop and commercialize products, or promote products, particularly in China. If we fail to maintain such agreements, or if we fail to enter into additional agreements, our business will suffer. Our sales and marketing strategy in China depends significantly upon agreements with third parties, and potentially upon entering into additional agreements with third parties, or renegotiating agreements with third parties. Except for ZADAXIN, our rights to develop, market and sell our products in China, including the products currently promoted or sold by our subsidiary, NovaMed, are held by us under license, promotion, distribution or marketing agreements with third parties. These agreements for products on the market including Depakine, Stilnox, Tritace and Aggrastat, and products in the regulatory review process, including DC Bead and several of NovaMed’s products in clinical trials, are held under license, distribution or marketing agreements. In addition, our success in the future may be dependent upon entering into similar agreements with other parties and the renewal of any such agreements. The third parties to these agreements are generally not under an obligation to renew the agreements. If any of these agreements are terminated, or if they are not renewed, our ability to distribute, or develop, the products or product candidates could be terminated and our business could be affected. In addition, if any of such agreements acquired in our NovaMed acquisition are not renewed, we could incur a decline in sales revenues. Renegotiation of agreements can also occur prior to discussions of contract renewals. We have had disputes with collaborators in the past, and are in negotiations regarding disputes with current collaborators regarding product candidates in the regulatory approval process. We are currently in a dispute with MEDA regarding NovaMed’s agreement with MEDA which, if not resolved favorably to us, would prevent us from distributing Tramadol in China which would eliminate Tramadol revenues in the future. See Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings”. Such disputes have arisen, and may arise in the future over the performance of each party’s obligations under the agreements, ownership rights to intellectual property, know-how or technologies developed with our collaborators. Disputes with collaborators or licensors or others could cause us to incur legal costs and could result in the loss of rights to products, loss of potential revenue, or other disruptions in our business. All of our products were originally obtained by us under licenses, promotion, distribution or similar third-party agreements. We do not conduct product discovery and our ability to bring new products to market is dependent upon our entering into additional acquisition, in-licensing, promotion or distribution agreements, particularly in China. The competition for attractive products is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate in-license, promotion or distribution agreements for additional products in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. We may lose market share or otherwise fail to compete effectively in the intensely competitive pharmaceutical industry. Competition in the pharmaceutical industry in China is intense, and we believe that competition will increase. Our success depends on our ability to compete in this industry, but we cannot assure you that we will be 30 Table of Contents able to successfully compete with our competitors. Increased competitive pressure could lead to intensified price-based competition resulting in lower prices and margins, which would hurt our operating results. We cannot assure you that we will compete successfully against our competitors or that our competitors, or potential competitors, will not develop drugs or other treatments for our targeted indications that will be superior to ours. We depend on sales to China, and global conditions could negatively affect our operating results or limit our ability to expand our operations in and outside of China. Changes in China’s political, social, regulatory and economic environment may affect our financial performance. Our business is concentrated in China. Heightened tensions resulting from the current geopolitical conditions in the Middle East, North Korea and elsewhere could worsen, causing disruptions in foreign trade, which would harm our sales. In particular, our commercial product is manufactured in Europe and distributed by us from our operations in Hong Kong. Any disruption of our supply and distribution activities due to geopolitical conditions could decrease our sales and harm our operating results. With respect to China, our financial performance may be affected by changes in China’s political, social, regulatory and economic environment. The role of the Chinese central and local governments in the Chinese economy is significant. Chinese policies toward economic liberalization, and laws and policies affecting foreign companies, currency exchange rates and other matters could change, resulting in greater restrictions on our ability to do business in China. Any imposition of surcharges or any increase in Chinese tax rates could hurt our operating results. The Chinese government could revoke, terminate or suspend our license for national security and similar reasons without compensation to us. If the government of China were to take any of these actions, we would be prevented from conducting all or part of our business. Any failure on our part to comply with governmental regulations could result in the loss of our ability to market our products in China. Because of China’s tiered method of importing and distributing finished pharmaceutical products, our quarterly results may vary substantially from one period to the next; we are dependent upon Sinopharm as the exclusive importer of ZADAXIN. Imported products in China, including ZADAXIN and NovaMed’s imported products, are distributed through a tiered method to import and distribute finished pharmaceutical products. Promoted products are typically sold from our partner companies within China to the primary distributor with the following distribution being the same for imported as well as promoted products. At each port of entry, and prior to moving the product forward to the distributors, government-licensed importing agents must process and evaluate each imported product shipment to determine whether it satisfies China’s quality assurance requirements. In order to efficiently manage this process, the importing agents typically place large, and therefore relatively few, orders within an annual period. Therefore, sales to an importing agent can vary substantially from quarter to quarter depending on the size and timing of the orders, which has in the past and may in the future cause our quarterly results to fluctuate. We rely on a limited number of importers, in any given quarter, to supply our products and most of our ZADAXIN sales have been through three importers. Our receivables from those importers are material, and if we were unable to collect receivables from those importers or any other importer, our business and cash-flow would be adversely affected. Generally, our importers are not obligated to place purchase orders for our product, and if they determined for any reason not to place purchase orders, we would need to seek alternative licensed importers, which could cause fluctuations in our revenue. As a result of our recent agreement granting certain exclusive importation rights to SinoPharm for ZADAXIN, we are dependent upon SinoPharm’s performance of its obligations under that agreement. We have a long-standing and we believe excellent relationship with SinoPharm, however, if SinoPharm was unable to adequately perform its obligations under, or breached, the agreement our business would be adversely affected. 31 Table of Contents The existence of counterfeit pharmaceutical products in China’s pharmaceutical retail market may damage our brand and reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Certain medicine products distributed or sold in China’s pharmaceutical retail market, including those appearing to be our products, may be counterfeit. Counterfeit products are products sold under the same or very similar brand names and/or having a similar appearance to genuine products. Counterfeit products, including counterfeit pharmaceutical products, are a significant problem in China. Such products divert sales from genuine products, often are of lower cost, often are of lower quality (having different ingredients or formulations, for example), and have the potential to damage the reputation for quality and effectiveness of the genuine product. The counterfeit pharmaceutical product regulation control and enforcement system in China is not able to completely eliminate production and sale of counterfeit pharmaceutical products. Any sale of counterfeit products resulting in adverse side effects to consumers may subject us to negative publicity and expenses. It could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may be subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations, which could adversely affect our financial performance. A majority of our product sales are denominated in US dollars and a significant portion of our sales and expenses are denominated in renminbi. Fluctuation in the US dollar exchange rate with local currency directly affects the customer’s cost for our product. In particular, a stronger US dollar vis-à-vis the local currency would tend to have an adverse effect on sales and potentially on collection of accounts receivable. China currently maintains the value of the renminbi in a narrow currency trading band that may or may not fluctuate based upon government policy. Depending on market conditions and the state of the Chinese economy, China has intervened in the foreign exchange market in the past to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the renminbi exchange rate, and it could make future adjustments, including moving to a managed float system, with opportunistic interventions. This reserve diversification may negatively impact the US dollar and US interest rates. A trend to a stronger US dollar would erode margins earned by our Chinese importers and prompt them to ask us to lower our prices. A weaker US dollar would increase our in-country China operating expenses, and with the addition of NovaMed, our China operating expenses have increased. We are subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations as a result of expenses incurred by our foreign operations. In particular, one of our supply arrangements under which we purchase finished products is denominated in euros and costs of our operations in China are paid in local currency. Consequently, changes in exchange rates could unpredictably and adversely affect our operating results and could result in exchange losses. To date, we have not hedged against the risks associated with fluctuations in exchange rates and, therefore, exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse impact on our future operating results and stock price. We cannot predict the safety profile of the use of ZADAXIN, Depakine, or other drugs we may develop or market when used in combination with other drugs. Many of our prior trials involved the use of ZADAXIN in combination with other drugs. We cannot predict how ZADAXIN, Depakine, or other drugs we may develop or market will work with other drugs, including causing possible adverse side effects not directly attributable to the other drugs that could compromise the safety profile of ZADAXIN, Depakine, or other drugs we may develop or market when used in certain combination therapies. If third-party reimbursement is not available or patients cannot otherwise pay for ZADAXIN, Depakine, or other drugs we may develop we may not be able to successfully market them. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of therapeutic products, such as ZADAXIN and Depakine or other drugs we may develop. We cannot assure you that third-party insurance coverage and reimbursement will be available for therapeutic products we might develop. Although ZADAXIN receives some 32 Table of Contents limited reimbursement in certain provinces in China, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain existing reimbursements or increase third-party payments for ZADAXIN or obtain third-party payments for other products which we sell or develop in China. The failure to obtain or maintain third-party reimbursement for our products would harm our business. Further, we cannot assure you that additional limitations will not be imposed in the future in the US or elsewhere on drug coverage and reimbursement due to proposed health care reforms. In many emerging markets where we have marketing rights to ZADAXIN, but where government resources and per capita income may be so low that our products will be prohibitively expensive, we may not be able to market our products on economically favorable terms, if at all. Recent efforts by governmental and third-party payers to contain or reduce health care costs and the announcement of legislative proposals and reforms to implement government controls has caused us to reduce the prices at which we market our drugs in China, and additional reforms, if they were to occur, could cause us to further reduce our prices which could reduce our gross margins and may harm our business. We rely on third parties who are our sole source suppliers for our clinical trial and commercial products and their inability to deliver products that meet our quality-control standards could delay or harm one or more important areas of our business including our sales, clinical trials or the regulatory approval process. We rely on third parties, who are subject to regulatory oversight, to supply our commercial products. Any deficiencies or shortages in supply of our commercial products would adversely affect our ability to realize our sales plans. For example, the manufacturing of the raw material and the processing to finished product of ZADAXIN is done in few batches in any given three-month period and any manufacturing errors have the potential to require a product recall. We currently have only one approved finished vial manufacturer and two approved active pharmaceutical ingredient (“API”) suppliers. If we experience a problem with the manufacturer or our suppliers our sales may suffer. We and NovaMed have each experienced difficulties with obtaining product from manufacturers in the past. During 2012, we have experienced limitations on supply of Depakine IV, Perenan, Methotrexate, and Rulide and the growth in the sales of those products has been affected. During 2011, we experienced manufacturing delays related to repairs for general, non-production-related facilities equipment at one of our API suppliers. During 2010, we experienced difficulties validating upgrades to equipment with one of our API manufacturers. Although we are taking steps to ensure that such problems do not continue, there is no assurance that we will either be successful in doing so with our current supplier or be able to timely and cost-effectively qualify new suppliers for this component. Manufacturing interruptions or failure or delay of product to meet quality assurance specifications could adversely affect shipments and recognition of sales of our products in any period and impair our relationships with customers and our competitive position and may increase the cost of material produced. In addition, each of the products that are marketed through our NovaMed subsidiary is manufactured by, or obtained from, a single source. We also rely on third parties, who are subject to regulatory oversight, to supply drug product. For example, Bioalliance is the sole supplier of Loramyc. Any unanticipated deficiencies in this supplier, or the suppliers of our raw materials, and/or recall of the manufacturing lots could also impede commercialization of our products and impair our competitive position. In addition, any unanticipated deficiencies in suppliers used in our clinical trials could delay the trials or detract from the integrity of the trial data and its potential use in future regulatory filings. In addition, manufacturing interruptions or failure to comply with regulatory requirements by any of these suppliers could significantly delay clinical development of potential products and reduce third-party or clinical researcher interest and support of proposed trials. If our thymalfasin API or ZADAXIN products are not shipped and stored at precision temperatures, the products could become damaged, which could negatively affect our sales and operating results. Thymalfasin API and ZADAXIN are temperature sensitive products. SciClone relies on third party organizations to provide controlled temperature shipping logistics services from the point of ownership transfer from the API contract manufacturer to the point where thymalfasin API is converted to ZADAXIN drug product, 33 Table of Contents and from the ZADAXIN drug product manufacturing site to our storage locations in Hong Kong and then to China. Although some temperature excursions are allowable and thymalfasin and ZADAXIN are relatively stable when exposed to temperatures higher than recommended, if any third party logistics or equipment provider fails to perform their required oversight duties with respect to temperature control or a shipment is delayed in transit for a prolonged period of time, the thymalfasin API or ZADAXIN drug product could become unsuitable for subsequent processing or commercial use. Although we have not experienced cold chain interruptions in the past and our distributor in China may maintain several months supply of our product, were our cold chain distribution or warehouse capability to be interrupted, our ability to timely deliver finished product to China could be adversely affected which in turn could materially adversely affect our sales and operating results. We rely on third parties for development of our products and the inability of any of these parties to reliably, timely or cost-effectively provide us with their obligated services could materially harm the timing of bringing our products to market and accordingly adversely affect our business. We rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators, contract laboratories, and collaborative partners in the conduct of clinical trials for our product candidates. If these parties, whom we do not control, do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines or choose not to continue their relationship with us, if the third parties need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our pre-clinical or clinical activities may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize our product candidates. Commercialization of some of our products depends on collaborations with others. If our collaborators are not successful, or if we are unable to find future collaborators, we may not be able to properly develop and commercialize our products. We depend in part on our distributors and business partners to develop or promote our drugs, and if they are not successful in their efforts or fail to do so, our business will suffer. For example, Biocompatibles is providing SciClone with product samples, clinical and product data, and the necessary supporting documents to obtain regulatory approval in China for DC Bead. We generally do not have control over the amount and timing of resources that our business partners devote to our collaborative efforts, and some have not always performed as or when expected. If they do not perform their obligations as we expect, particularly obligations regarding clinical trials, our development expenses would increase and the development or sale of our products could be limited or delayed, which could hurt our business and cause our stock price to decline. In addition, our relationships with these companies may not be successful. Disputes may arise with our collaborators, including disputes over ownership rights to intellectual property, know-how or technologies developed with our collaborators. We may not be able to negotiate similar additional arrangements in the future to develop and commercialize ZADAXIN or other products. If we are unable to retain our key personnel, or are unable to attract and retain additional, highly skilled and experienced personnel, including the ability to expand our sales staff, our business will suffer. We are highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel because of the specialized, scientific and worldwide nature of our business. We are also dependent on our ability to appropriately staff these personnel in appropriate positions as our business fluctuates. Further, our efforts to in-license or acquire, develop and commercialize product candidates for China may require the addition of clinical and regulatory personnel and the capabilities to expand our sales and marketing operation. In addition, we assign numerous key responsibilities to a limited number of individuals, and we would experience difficulty in finding immediate replacements for any of them were any one of them to choose to leave employment with us. There is intense competition for qualified management, scientific, clinical, regulatory, and sales and marketing personnel in the pharmaceutical industry. 34 Table of Contents In January 2013, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer announced his intention to resign from the Company on or around May 31, 2013 to pursue other opportunities, and we are currently recruiting for his replacement. There is significant turnover in the industry, in China in particular, and we have also experienced turnover in our sales personnel and key employees. We may not be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel we need to grow and develop our business globally. In particular, if we are unable to retain key personnel from the acquisition of NovaMed, particularly sales and marketing personnel with expertise in the products they promote and regulatory personnel, our business may suffer and could result in our not achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. We recently announced departures of key personnel from our NovaMed subsidiary, including the individual who was our Chief Executive Officer of SciClone’s China operations and former CEO of NovaMed who resigned in December 2012, and our Chief Operating Officer in China who left in October 2012. We also had recent departures in our senior sales personnel in China and may experience additional departures in our China operations. Our future success will depend in part on our recruiting senior sales personnel in China. We are currently recruiting executives to address departures and to expand and strengthen our China operations. In addition, we terminated personnel who were involved in the override of certain controls in the financial statement close process at our NovaMed subsidiary that was concluded to represent a material weakness. Conversely, if we need to reduce the size of a particular aspect of our business including if we have contracts that are not renewed or renegotiated for products we market or promote, we are also dependent on our ability to make such adjustments while retaining suitably skilled personnel. We have taken corrective measures based upon the findings of our Special Committee relating to its investigation of matters relating to the FCPA and have, and expect to continue to take corrective measures relating to managements’ evaluation of internal control over financial reporting which could have adverse effects on our business, including the loss of personnel, and changes in marketing, sales and educational practices or programs. If we were unable to attract and retain qualified personnel as needed or promptly replace those employees who are critical to our sales, development and other operations, and in particular senior executives, our financial results and operations would be adversely affected. At this time, we do not maintain “key person” life insurance for any of our personnel. We may need to obtain additional funding to support our long-term product development and commercialization programs. We believe our existing cash and investments and ongoing revenue generating business operations will be sufficient to support our current operating plan for at least the next 12 months. In November and May 2012, we announced that our Board of Directors has approved increases in our share repurchase program that authorizes the Company to repurchase up to a total of $40.5 million of its outstanding common stock. As of December 31, 2012, $12.4 million of the $40.5 million remained available under the repurchase program for future share repurchases. Further, we may use cash to acquire additional product rights or for future acquisitions. Our ability to achieve and sustain operating profitability is dependent on numerous factors including our ability to achieve our goal of increasing sales of ZADAXIN, securing regulatory approval for DC Bead in China, and for our other products and products we acquired as a result of the NovaMed acquisition, the execution and successful completion of clinical trials in China, securing partnerships for those programs that lead to regulatory approvals in major pharmaceutical markets, and successfully continuing NovaMed’s sales and integrating NovaMed into our business. We cannot assure you that such funds from operating activities will be sufficient, or that we will attain profitable operations in future periods. In addition, we intend to develop other products and we may need additional funds in the future to support such development and to support future growth and achieve profitability. If we need to raise additional funds in the future and such funds are not available on reasonable terms, if at all, our commercialization efforts may be impeded, our revenues may be limited and our operating results may suffer. 35 Table of Contents We are subject to the risk of increased income taxes which could reduce our future operating income. We have structured our operations in a manner designed to maximize income in countries where: • tax incentives have been extended to encourage foreign investment; or • income tax rates are low. Our taxes could increase if certain tax holidays or incentives are not renewed upon expiration, or if tax rates applicable to us in such jurisdictions are otherwise increased. For example, on March 16, 2007, the Chinese government passed a unified enterprise income tax law which became effective on January 1, 2008. Among other things, the law cancels many income tax incentives previously applicable to one of our subsidiaries in China. The law provides a transition rule which increased the tax rate of one of our subsidiaries in China over a 5 year period to 25% by 2012. The law also increased the standard withholding rate on earnings distributions to between 5% and 10% depending on the residence of the shareholder. The ultimate effect of these and other changes in Chinese tax laws on our overall tax rate will be affected by, among other things, our China income, the manner in which China interprets, implements and applies the new tax provisions, and by our ability to qualify for any exceptions or new incentives. In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries are regularly subject to tax return audits and examinations by various taxing jurisdictions, particularly in the US and China. In determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from tax examinations. While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of the resolution of a tax examination, we believe that our reserves for uncertain tax positions reflect the outcome of tax positions that are more likely than not to occur. However, we cannot be certain that the final determination of any tax examinations will not be materially different than that which is reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. Should additional taxes be assessed as a result of a current or future examination, there could be a material adverse effect on our tax provision, operating results, financial position and cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. If we fail to protect our products, technologies and trade secrets, we may not be able to successfully use, manufacture, market or sell our products, or we may fail to advance or maintain our competitive position, and we have limited intellectual property protection in China. Our success depends significantly on our ability to obtain and maintain meaningful patent protection for our products and technologies and to preserve our trade secrets. Our pending patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents in the future. Our patents or patent applications may not have priority over others’ applications. Our existing patents and additional patents that may be issued, if any, may not provide a competitive advantage to us or may be invalidated or circumvented by our competitors. Others may independently develop similar products or design around patents issued or licensed to us. Patents issued to, or patent applications filed by, other companies could harm our ability to use, manufacture, market or sell our products or maintain our competitive position with respect to our products. Although many of our patents relating to thymalfasin have expired, including composition of matter patents, we have rights to other patents and patent applications relating to thymalfasin and thymalfasin analogues, including method of use patents with respect to the use of thymalfasin for certain indications. Additionally, thymosin alpha 1 (“thymalfasin”), the chemical composition of thymalfasin, has received Orphan Drug designation in the US for the treatment of stage 2b through stage 4 melanoma. If other parties develop generic forms of thymalfasin for other indications, including conducting clinical trials for such indications, our patents and other rights might not be sufficient to prohibit them from marketing and selling such generic forms of thymalfasin or their brands of thymalfasin. If other parties develop analogues or derivatives of thymalfasin, our patents and other rights might not be sufficient to prohibit them from marketing these analogues or derivatives. Pharmaceutical products are either not patentable or have only recently become patentable in some of the countries in which we market or may market thymalfasin. We do not have composition patent claims directed to 36 Table of Contents the same form of thymalfasin currently marketed in China, our largest market, although we do have other type of patent claims, pending or issued, directed to other aspects of thymalfasin therapy. Other companies market generic thymalfasin in China, sometimes in violation of our patent, trademark or other rights which, to date, we have defended by informing physicians and hospitals of the practice. Past enforcement of intellectual property rights in many of these countries, including China in particular, has been limited or non-existent. Future enforcement of patents and proprietary rights in many other countries will likely be problematic or unpredictable. Moreover, the issuance of a patent in one country does not assure the issuance of a similar patent in another country. Claim interpretation and infringement laws vary by nation, so the extent of any patent protection is uncertain and may vary in different jurisdictions. If we are involved in intellectual property claims and litigation, the proceedings may divert our resources and subject us to significant liability for damages, substantial litigation expense and the loss of our proprietary rights. Our commercial success depends in part on our not infringing valid, enforceable patents or proprietary rights of third parties, and not breaching any licenses that may relate to our technologies and products. In addition, we may not be aware of all patents or patent applications that may impact our ability to make, use or sell any of our potential products. For example, US patent applications may be kept confidential for 12 or more months while pending in the Patent and Trademark Office, and patent applications filed in foreign countries are often first published nine months or more after filing. It is possible that we may unintentionally infringe these patents or other patents or proprietary rights of third parties. We may in the future receive notices claiming infringement from third parties as well as invitations to take licenses under third-party patents. Any legal action against us or our collaborative partners claiming damages and seeking to enjoin commercial activities relating to our products and processes affected by third-party rights may require us or our collaborative partners to obtain licenses in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products and processes. Our efforts to defend against any of these claims, regardless of merit, would require us to devote resources and attention that could have been directed to our operations and growth plans. In addition, these actions may subject us to potential liability for damages. We or our collaborative partners may not prevail in a patent action and any license required under a patent may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. Any conflicts resulting from the patent rights of others could significantly reduce the coverage of our patents and limit our ability to obtain meaningful patent protection. If other companies obtain patents with conflicting claims, we may be required to obtain licenses to those patents or develop or obtain alternative technology to manufacture or market the affected products and processes. We may not be able to obtain any such licenses on acceptable terms or at all. Any failure to obtain such licenses could delay or prevent us from pursuing the development or commercialization of our potential products. Our efforts to defend against any of these claims would require us to devote resources and attention that could have been directed to our operations and growth plans. We may need to initiate litigation, which could be time-consuming and expensive, to enforce our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of others’ rights. If litigation results, a court may find our patents or those of our licensors invalid or may find that we have infringed on a competitor’s rights. If any of our competitors have filed patent applications in the US which claim technology we also have invented, the Patent and Trademark Office may require us to participate in expensive interference proceedings to determine who has the right to a patent for the technology. These actions may subject us to potential liability for damages. We or our collaborative partners may not prevail in a patent action and any license required under a patent may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. Substantial sales of our stock or the exercise or conversion of options may impact the market price of our common stock. In March 2012, we filed a Form S-3 Shelf registration with the SEC under which we may offer and sell up to $100.0 million of our securities, assuming we continue to meet the SEC’s eligibility requirements for primary offerings on Form S-3. Subsequently, affiliates of Sigma-Tau sold approximately 6.3 million shares for an aggregate price of 37 Table of Contents approximately $33.1 million under this registration statement, and we have approximately $66.9 million available for future use. In addition, we issued 8,298,110 shares of the Company’s common stock to NovaMed under the terms of the acquisition in April 2011, and former NovaMed stockholders own approximately 15% of our outstanding common stock after the transaction. We have granted registration rights for those shares and the shares are freely tradable. Sales of the shares could lead to a decrease in the market price of our common stock. Future issuances of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Similarly, if we raise additional funds through the issuance of common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock or sell equity in a subsidiary, the percentage ownership of our present stockholders of the respective entities will be reduced and the price of our common stock may fall. Our cash and investments are subject to certain risks which could materially adversely affect our overall financial position. We invest our cash in accordance with an established internal policy and customarily in instruments which historically have been highly liquid and carried relatively low risk. However, with turmoil in the credit markets, similar types of investments have experienced losses in value or liquidity issues which differ from their historical pattern. For example, we routinely have invested in money market funds with large financial institutions. One or more of these funds could experience losses or liquidity problems and, although to date some of the largest financial institutions who sponsor such funds have offset similar losses, there is no assurance that our financial institutions would either not incur losses or would offset any losses were they to occur. Any adjustment to decrease the ratings of our investments by an Interest Rate Rating Agency may have a negative impact on the value of our investments. Should any of our cash investments permanently lose value or have their liquidity impaired, it would have a material and adverse effect on our overall financial position by imperiling our ability to fund our operations and forcing us to seek additional financing sooner than we would otherwise and such financing may not be available on commercially attractive terms. In addition, financial instruments may subject us to a concentration of credit risk. Most of our cash, and cash equivalents are held by a limited number of financial institutions. To date, we have not experienced any losses on our deposits of cash and cash equivalents. However, if any of these instruments permanently lost value or had their liquidity impaired, it would also have a material and adverse effect on our overall financial position by imperiling our ability to fund our operations and forcing us to seek additional financing sooner than we would otherwise and such financing may not be available on commercially attractive terms. We expect that we may need to transfer capital to NovaMed from time to time to fund its operations. We need to obtain regulatory approval from China’s State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) in order to make such transfers and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such approval in a timely manner. We have been able to fund the operations of NovaMed to date through a commercial loan, but we could face difficulties in the future if our efforts to improve profitability and cash flow in NovaMed are not successful, or if we are unable to obtain SAFE approval or obtain further loans. Furthermore, a majority of our cash is held by our foreign subsidiaries. While such cash is used to fund the operating activities of our foreign subsidiaries and for further investment in foreign operations, and we do not anticipate the need to repatriate cash held by foreign subsidiaries under our current operating plan, if we were to repatriate cash to the US, these amounts may be subject to US income tax upon repatriation. Our ability to utilize our tax attributes may be limited by an “ownership change.” Our ability to use our tax attributes, such as our US federal income tax net operating loss carryforwards and our tax credit carryforwards, may be substantially restricted if we have had in the past, or have in the future, an 38 Table of Contents “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the US Internal Revenue Code. An ownership change occurs if increases in the percentage of our stock held by “5-percent shareholders” (within the meaning of Section 382, which provides that certain public groups can be treated as 5-percent shareholders) collectively exceed more than fifty percent, comparing the lowest percentage of stock owned by each 5-percent shareholder at any time during the testing period (which is generally a three-year rolling period) to the percentage of stock owned by the 5-percent shareholder immediately after the close of any owner shift testing date. Our issuance of Common Stock in the acquisition of NovaMed, our repurchases of our Common Stock and trading in our stock by stockholders, may have increased the possibility that in the future we could experience an ownership change. Trading by our stockholders, our stock repurchases or other transactions could, in the future, cause an ownership change, resulting in an annual limitation on utilization of our tax attributes. If our tax attribute usage is subject to limitation and if we are profitable, our future cash flows could be adversely affected due to an increased tax liability. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult. Certain anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents as currently in effect may make a change in control of our company more difficult, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our charter documents contain certain anti-takeover provisions, including provisions in our certificate of incorporation providing that stockholders may not cumulate votes, stockholders’ meetings may be called by stockholders only if they hold 25% or more of our common stock and provisions in our bylaws providing that the stockholders may not take action by written consent. Additionally, our Board of Directors has the authority to issue 10 million shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms of those shares of stock without any further action by the stockholders. The rights of holders of our common stock are subject to the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued. The issuance of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Delaware law also prohibits corporations from engaging in a business combination with any holders of 15% or more of their capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the board of directors approves the transaction. Our Board of Directors may use these provisions to prevent changes in the management and control of our company. Also, on December 18, 2006, our Board of Directors declared a dividend distribution of one Preferred Stock Purchase Right (collectively, the “Rights”) for each outstanding share of our Common Stock, each Right which entitles the registered holder to purchase from the Company one one-thousandth of a share of the Company’s Series D Preferred Stock, $0.001 par value, at a price of $25.00 pursuant to a Rights Agreement dated as of December 19, 2006, between the Company and Mellon Investor Services LLC. The Rights have certain anti-takeover effects. Under certain circumstances the Rights could cause substantial dilution to a person or group who attempts to acquire the Company on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. Although the Rights should not interfere with an acquisition of the Company approved by the board, the Rights may have the effect of delaying and perhaps improving the terms of an acquisition for our stockholders, or deterring an acquisition of the Company. Also, under applicable Delaware law, our Board of Directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future. We may be subject to product liability lawsuits, and our insurance may be inadequate to cover damages. Clinical trials of any of our current and potential products or the actual commercial sales of our product may expose us to liability claims from the use of these products. We currently carry product liability insurance. However, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, for clinical and commercial activities, that any insurance we have will cover any particular claim that is asserted, or that the insurance would be sufficient to cover any potential product liability claim or recall. If we fail to have sufficient coverage, our business, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. 39 Table of Contents If we are unable to comply with environmental and other laws and regulations, our business may be harmed. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and recommendations relating to the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and waste products (including radioactive compounds and infectious disease agents), as well as safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices and the experimental use of animals. The extent of government regulation that might result from future legislation or administrative action in these areas cannot be accurately predicted. We do not currently maintain hazardous materials at our facilities. While we outsource our research and development programs involving the controlled use of biohazardous materials, if in the future we conduct these programs ourselves, we might be required to incur significant cost to comply with environmental laws and regulations. Further, in the event of an accident, we would be liable for any damages that result, and the liability could exceed our resources. Our business and operations are subject to the risks of being based in particular locations known for earthquakes, other natural catastrophic disasters and service interruptions. Our corporate headquarters are located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known for seismic activity. Although we maintain a disaster recovery policy that includes storage of important corporate data in a different geographic region of the US, all of our significant corporate data is stored in our headquarters facility and accordingly, a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Most of our sales are into China for which we maintain our warehouses for finished goods in Hong Kong, which can experience severe typhoon storms, earthquakes or other natural catastrophic disasters. Although our distributors in China may maintain several months supply of our product, were our warehouse capability to be interrupted, either through a natural disaster such as flooding or through a service interruption, such as a lack of electricity to power required air conditioning, our ability to timely deliver finished product to China could be adversely affected which in turn would materially adversely affect our sales and ensuing operating results. We May Be Affected by Climate Change and Market or Regulatory Responses to Climate Change. Climate change, including the impact of global warming, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity if it were to disrupt the demand, supply or delivery of product, management of our business, or result in cost increases as a result of government regulation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 