Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information in this report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. 21 Table of Contents Our revenue is dependent on the sale of ZADAXIN in foreign countries, particularly China, and if we experience difficulties in our foreign sales efforts, our operating results and financial condition will be harmed. Our product revenue is highly dependent on the sale of ZADAXIN in foreign countries. If we experience difficulties in our foreign sales efforts, our business will suffer and our operating results and financial condition will be harmed. For each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 approximately 92%, 92% and 91%, respectively, of our ZADAXIN sales were to customers in China. Sales of ZADAXIN in China may be limited due to the low average personal income, lack of patient cost reimbursement, poorly developed infrastructure and existing and potential competition from other products, including generics. ZADAXIN sales growth in recent years has benefited from the rapidly growing Chinese economy and growing personal disposable income. Sales of ZADAXIN in China could be adversely affected by a slowing or downturn of the Chinese economy. In China, ZADAXIN is approved only for the treatment of hepatitis B virus (HBV) and as a vaccine adjuvant. We face competition from certain large, global pharmaceutical companies who are aggressively marketing competing products for the treatment of HBV and other indications where ZADAXIN is used on an off-label basis. In addition, several local companies are selling lower priced locally manufactured generic thymosin, which is a competitive product and is selling in substantial and increasing quantities. While generic products outsell ZADAXIN in unit volumes, we have been able to maintain an advantage through the reputation of our imported, branded product. We expect such competition to continue and there could be a negative impact on the price and the volume of ZADAXIN sold in China, which would harm our business. Our efforts to in-license other pharmaceutical products for marketing in China and other markets may be unsuccessful or may not have a meaningful effect on our dependence on ZADAXIN sales in those markets. We do not have product sales in the United States, Europe or Japan with which to offset any decrease in our revenue from ZADAXIN sales in Asia, Latin America and the Middle East, and sales outside of China have not been substantial to date. Some countries in these regions, including China, regulate pharmaceutical prices and pharmaceutical importation. These regulations may reduce prices for ZADAXIN to levels significantly below those that would prevail in an unregulated market, limit the volume of product which may be imported and sold or place high import duties on the product, any of which may limit the growth of our revenues or cause them to decline. We believe that the Chinese government is increasing its efforts to reduce overall health care costs, including through pricing controls. Individual provinces in China and, in some cases, individual hospitals can and have established pricing requirements for a product to be included on formulary lists. These prices may be lower than our distributors have been selling ZADAXIN in which case we have been removed from formulary lists, which consequently has reduced sales to certain hospitals and could adversely affect our future sales. We have received regulatory approvals to market ZADAXIN in China and to manufacture ZADAXIN and export the product from Italy. In order to continue our sales to China, we need to maintain these approvals. Our license to import ZADAXIN into China needs to be renewed every five years and the next renewal is required in the first half of 2008. Although we have been successful in obtaining a prior renewal, there is no assurance that we will receive renewals when applied for or that the renewals will not be conditioned or limited in ways that limit our ability to conduct business in China. Further, our licenses to manufacture and export ZADAXIN from Italy are dependent upon our continuing compliance with regulations in Italy. Our business would be adversely affected if we are not able to maintain these approvals. Our ZADAXIN sales and operations in other parts of Asia, as well as in Latin America and the Middle East, are subject to a number of risks, including difficulties and delays in obtaining registrations, renewals of registrations, permits, pricing approvals and reimbursement, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and political instability. We are also subject to the laws and regulations of other countries regarding the marketing, sale and distribution of our products in those countries where approvals have been obtained. We experience other issues with managing foreign sales operations including long payment cycles, potential difficulties in accounts 22 Table of Contents receivable collection and, especially from significant customers, fluctuations in the timing and amount of orders. Operations in foreign countries also expose us to risks relating to difficulties in enforcing our proprietary rights, currency fluctuations and adverse or deteriorating economic conditions. If we experience problems with obtaining registrations, complying with reimbursement rules or compliance with foreign country or applicable U.S. laws, or if we experience difficulties in payments or intellectual property matters in foreign jurisdictions, or if significant political, economic or regulatory changes occur, our results could be adversely affected. Moreover, many of these operations, which are carried out in various parts of the world including in particular across China and thus cover a vast geography, are potentially subject to the laws and regulations of the United States including through the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, in addition to the laws and regulations of the local countries, and in particular China. Regulation in China of the activities in the pharmaceutical industry has recently increased and may continue to undergo significant and unanticipated changes. If we fail to comply with regulations or to carry out controls on our Chinese or other foreign operations in a manner that satisfy all applicable laws, our business would be harmed. We may need to obtain additional capital to support our long-term product development and commercialization programs. We believe we need to raise additional capital in 2008 to fund our operations, including anticipated clinical trials, beyond 2008. We are exploring various alternatives for financing in addition to sales of equity of SciClone, including a line of credit, debt financing and financing of our Chinese operations either through debt, equity or joint venture transactions, but we have not determined the timing or structure of any transaction. However, we cannot assure you that such funds will be sufficient, or that we will attain profitable operations in future periods. In addition, we intend to develop other products and we may need additional funds in the future to support such development and to support future growth and achieve profitability. If we need to raise additional funds in the future and such funds are not available on reasonable terms, if at all, our commercialization efforts may be impeded, our revenues may be limited and our operating results may suffer. Final results from our ongoing clinical trials for thymalfasin, SCV-07, and RP101 may differ materially from interim or pre-clinical trial results. These clinical trials could be affected by the future actions of our partners, unexpected delays, unanticipated patient drop out rates or adverse side effects, future actions by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or equivalent regulatory authorities in Europe or additional expenses. Clinical trials are inherently risky and may reveal that our product candidates are ineffective or have unanticipated drug interactions that may significantly decrease the likelihood of regulatory approval. The results of the Mexican triple therapy pilot trial using thymalfasin to treat HCV do not necessarily predict that the phase 3 clinical trial using thymalfasin as part of a triple therapy to treat HCV will be successful. The results of this trial may be different, or not statistically significant. Similarly, the results of our thymalfasin phase 2 melanoma clinical trial does not necessarily predict future clinical or commercial success. SCV-07 and RP101 pre-clinical and phase 1 trial results also do not predict clinical or commercial success. We may face numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, clinical trials that could delay or prevent commercialization of our product candidates including: our product candidate clinical trials may not prove statistical significance; negative or inconclusive clinical trial results may require us to conduct further testing or we may choose to abandon projects that we had been expecting to complete; patient drop out rates in our clinical trial may be higher than anticipated; the FDA, its European equivalent EMEA or the Chinese State Food and Drug Administration (SFDA) may not approve our products for commercialization or may require additional clinical trial data prior to approving our products. Commercialization of some of our products depends on collaborations with others. If our collaborators are not successful, or if we are unable to find future collaborators, we may not be able to properly develop and commercialize our products. We depend in part on our distributors and business partners to develop or promote our drugs, and if they are not successful in their efforts or fail to do so, our business will suffer. For example, Sigma-Tau is responsible for 23 Table of Contents the development and marketing of ZADAXIN (thymalfasin) in most of Europe. Biocompatibles is primarily responsible for the efforts to obtain regulatory approval in China for the DC Bead, and RESprotect is primarily responsible for the scale-up of production for RP101. We generally do not have control over the amount and timing of resources that our business partners devote to our collaborative efforts, and some have not always performed as or when expected. If they do not perform their obligations as we expect, particularly obligations regarding clinical trials, our development expenses would increase and the development or sale of our products could be limited or delayed, which could hurt our business and cause our stock price to decline. In addition, our relationships with these companies may not be successful. Disputes may arise with our collaborators, including disputes over ownership rights to intellectual property, know-how or technologies developed with our collaborators. We may not be able to negotiate similar additional arrangements in the future to develop and commercialize ZADAXIN or other products. We rely on third parties to supply our clinical trial and commercial products. Deficiencies in their work could delay or harm one or more important areas of our business including our sales, clinical trials or the regulatory approval process. We rely on third parties, who are subject to regulatory oversight, to supply our clinical and commercial products. The manufacturing of the raw material and the processing to finished product of ZADAXIN is done in few batches in any given three-month period. Manufacturing interruptions or failure or delay of product to meet quality assurance specifications could adversely affect shipments and recognition of sales of ZADAXIN in any period and impair our relationships with customers and our competitive position. During 2006, we experienced failures and lower yields on production runs from our sole supplier of bulk product for the manufacture of ZADAXIN for our current markets including China and our current ZADAXIN clinical trials. We have taken and are taking various actions to ensure that our sales are not interrupted; through the end of 2007, our planned inventory levels of finished product have been met by additional production runs and our sales of ZADAXIN and supply of clinical trial product have been unaffected. However, the production run failures and the related costs incurred in additional production runs are circumstances that have not been economical for our supplier. Our supplier is working to remedy the production problems, but has not been able to produce our product at targeted yields and costs. Until the production problems are remedied, we may suffer production problems that may cause future interruptions in product supply that may harm our business. In addition, if sales of ZADAXIN were to increase dramatically, our third-party suppliers may not be able to supply ZADAXIN quickly enough, which could limit our ability to satisfy increased demand or could adversely affect the ability of these suppliers to provide products for our clinical trials. In addition, Biocompatibles is the sole supplier of the DC Bead. If unanticipated deficiencies in these suppliers occur, we could experience delays in our ability to fulfill regulatory requirements which may adversely affect our sales or prospects for regulatory marketing approvals. We have an exclusive supplier of pegylated interferon alpha and ribavirin for our European phase 3 HCV clinical trial, who also supplied all of the pegylated interferon used in our U.S. phase 3 HCV clinical trials, and RESprotect is the exclusive supplier of RP101 for our phase 2 study evaluating the safety and efficacy of RP101. Any unanticipated deficiencies in these suppliers, recall of the manufacturing lots or similar action regarding the pegylated interferon alpha, ribavirin or RP101 used in our clinical trials could delay the trials or detract from the integrity of the trial data and its potential use in future regulatory filings. We rely on third parties and corporate collaborators to conduct clinical trials and these third parties may not perform satisfactorily. We rely on third parties including Sigma Tau, as well as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators, contract laboratories, and collaborative partners in the conduct of clinical trials for our product candidates. If these parties, whom we do not control, do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines or choose not to continue their relationship with us, if the third parties need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our pre-clinical or clinical activities may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able 24 Table of Contents to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize our product candidates. We are in discussions with Sigma-Tau regarding the sharing of expenditures for future thymalfasin trials and have not determined responsibilities for the various trials. The outcome of these negotiations will affect our future operating results including the timing of proceeding with such trials. If third-party reimbursement is not available or patients cannot otherwise pay for ZADAXIN, the DC Bead or RP101, we may not be able to successfully market them. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of new therapeutic products, such as ZADAXIN, the DC Bead and RP101. We cannot assure you that third-party insurance coverage and reimbursement will be available for therapeutic products we might develop. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase third-party payments for ZADAXIN or obtain third-party payments for the DC Bead in China. The failure to obtain or maintain third-party reimbursement for our products would harm our business. Further, we cannot assure you that additional limitations will not be imposed in the future in the United States or elsewhere on drug coverage and reimbursement due to proposed health care reforms. Our commercial rights to RP101 are limited to the United States and Canada. In many emerging markets where we have marketing rights to ZADAXIN, but where government resources and per capita income may be so low that our products will be prohibitively expensive, we may not be able to market our products on economically favorable terms, if at all. Efforts by governmental and third-party payers to contain or reduce health care costs or the announcement of legislative proposals or reforms to implement government controls could cause us to reduce the prices at which we market our drugs, which would reduce our gross margins and may harm our business. Additional clinical trials will be required for the successful U.S. and European commercialization of ZADAXIN and for the continued success of our commercialization efforts in China and other markets. If the results of clinical trials are not favorable, we will be unable to obtain regulatory approval for the intended indications we are evaluating and our sales efforts in China and other markets where ZADAXIN is approved will be harmed. Our ability to achieve and sustain operating profitability depends in large part on our ability to commence, execute and complete clinical programs and obtain additional regulatory approvals for ZADAXIN and other drug candidates, particularly in the United States and Europe. We are also dependent on our ability to increase ZADAXIN sales in China and other markets. In particular, our ability to achieve and sustain profitability will depend in large part on our ability to commercialize ZADAXIN for the treatment of HCV or malignant melanoma in the United States and Europe and RP101 in the United States and Canada. To obtain regulatory approvals, we must, among other requirements, complete carefully controlled and well-designed clinical trials demonstrating that a particular drug is safe and effective for the applicable disease. We cannot depend on data from prior trial results to predict or demonstrate that our potential drug products are safe and efficacious under regulatory guidelines to qualify for commercial sale. In December 2005 and June 2006, we reported final results from our two U.S. phase 3 trials evaluating the double therapy combination of ZADAXIN and pegylated interferon alpha to treat HCV patients who had failed previous therapy. The results from these trials did not demonstrate that ZADAXIN in combination with pegylated interferon alpha provides a statistically significant clinical benefit when compared with pegylated interferon alpha alone. Although we do not believe that the news of these results had any significant effect on our sales to China, we cannot assure you that our results will not be harmed if final data from current clinical trials are negative. Our European partner, Sigma-Tau, is conducting a triple therapy combination (ZADAXIN plus pegylated interferon alpha and ribavirin) HCV clinical trial in Europe. We expect to report final data from this 553 patient phase 3 clinical trial in the third quarter of 2008. The current standard of care for HCV therapy is the combination of pegylated interferon alpha with ribavirin. This combination is not approved by the FDA or the EMEA for the treatment of non-responders, 25 Table of Contents however, in clinical practice pegylated interferon alpha with ribavirin is widely used for the treatment of both treatment naïve and non-responder HCV patients. The European HCV phase 3 clinical trial being conducted by Sigma-Tau has been designed to compare the efficacy of the triple combination of thymalfasin, pegylated interferon alpha and ribavirin with the current standard of care. As with the FDA, the EMEA generally requires two confirmatory phase 3 clinical trials to support their equivalent of a New Drug Application (NDA). Therefore, results of the current triple therapy combination trial, even if positive and statistically significant, would by themselves likely be insufficient to support an NDA to the EMEA, and results from a second confirmatory phase 3 clinical trial would be needed. We cannot assure you that we or our European partner, Sigma-Tau, will undertake such trial, that any clinical trial of the triple therapy combination will yield favorable results, that we will receive approval for ZADAXIN for the treatment of HCV in Europe or the United States or for the treatment of HCV in other countries, or that we will achieve significant levels of sales. If we are unable to do so, our business will be harmed. In June 2007, we and Sigma-Tau announced positive survival data from a phase 2 trial in Europe evaluating ZADAXIN in combination with dacarbazine (DTIC) chemotherapy with and without low-dose interferon alpha to treat patients with stage IV, the most advanced and imminently fatal form of, malignant melanoma. The data indicated that thymalfasin in combination with DTIC chemotherapy tripled the overall response rate, the trial’s primary endpoint, and extended overall survival by nearly 3 months compared to patients treated with DTIC, the current standard of care, and interferon alpha. DTIC is the only approved therapy in the United States for the treatment of advanced melanoma. We, in collaboration with Sigma-Tau, in October 2007, shared the melanoma clinical data and received approval from the FDA to initiate phase 3 registration trials. We also intend to approach the EMEA to discuss our plans to initiate phase 3 registration trials. We cannot assure you that the final design of any trial that is approved will meet our expectations, that we or Sigma-Tau will receive approval for the indication or that we will achieve significant levels of sales. Further, we have not reached agreement on expense sharing for the trial, and our future expenses and ability to proceed with the trial are dependent in part on the conclusion of such discussions. If we cannot proceed with the trial for any reason or the trial is unsuccessful, or even if successful, if we do not achieve commercially meaningful results, our business will be harmed. Higher than anticipated patient drop out rates in our clinical trials could adversely affect trial results and make it more difficult to obtain regulatory approval. In December 2005 and June 2006, we announced results from our two U.S. phase 3 HCV clinical trials. These clinical trials did not demonstrate that the combination of ZADAXIN and pegylated interferon alpha provides a statistically significant clinical benefit when compared to the use of pegylated interferon alpha alone in non-responder patients. These results made Sigma-Tau’s efforts to fully recruit patients for the currently ongoing ZADAXIN phase 3 HCV triple therapy combination trial more difficult and enrollment took longer than planned. Enrollment of the 553 patients in this trial was completed in December 2006. In addition, HCV clinical trials are lengthy. The trials require patient treatment for 48 weeks and a follow-up observation period for an additional 24 weeks. Patient dropouts are expected and each of our two phase 3 HCV clinical trials in the United States enrolled more than the planned number of 500 patients, but even then dropouts were higher than anticipated. A patient who drops out at any point in the 72 weeks of the trial is considered a “failure to respond” in results of the clinical trial. In general, the fewer patients who complete each trial, the higher the positive response rate for the group of remaining thymalfasin treated patients in such trial needs to be in order to demonstrate statistical significance. Therefore, a higher than anticipated dropout rate lowers the chances of proving statistical significance which could adversely affect clinical trial results. Dropouts did not prevent us from completing our U.S. phase 3 HCV clinical trials. However, dropouts may affect the final results of the European phase 3 HCV triple therapy combination trial and may affect the pancreatic cancer phase 2 clinical trial for RP101 and other trials we conduct. 26 Table of Contents We cannot predict the safety profile of the use of thymalfasin, RP101 or SCV-07 when used in combination with other drugs. Many of our trials involve the use of thymalfasin in combination with other drugs and our pancreatic cancer clinical trial involves RP101 in combination with gemcitabine. SCV-07 may be developed to be used in combination with other drugs. Some of these drugs, particularly pegylated interferon alpha, ribavirin, non-pegylated interferon alpha, dacarbazine and gemcitabine are known to cause adverse patient reactions. We cannot predict how ZADAXIN, RP101 or SCV-07 will work with other drugs, including causing possible adverse side effects not directly attributable to the other drugs that could compromise the safety profile of thymalfasin, RP101 or SCV-07 when used in certain combination therapies. If we do not obtain regulatory approval for thymalfasin or RP101 for the intended indications that we are evaluating, our revenues will be limited and we may never become profitable. Our ability to execute on our business strategy is largely dependent on our ability to obtain regulatory approval for the use of thymalfasin, particularly in the United States and Europe, and for the use of RP101 in the United States. The regulatory approval processes in the United States and Europe are demanding and typically require 12 months or more in the United States and 18 months or more in Europe from the date of submission of an NDA. We have committed significant resources, including capital and time, to develop these products, and intend to continue to do so, including the initiation and execution of additional clinical trials, with the goal of obtaining such approvals. If we do not obtain these approvals, we will be unable to achieve any revenue from these products in these major markets and our thymalfasin sales in other jurisdictions could decline. All new drugs, including our products, which have been developed or are under development, are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by the FDA and comparable agencies in state and local jurisdictions and in foreign countries. These regulations govern, among other things, the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, pre-market approval, importation, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of our products. These regulations may change from time to time and new regulations may be adopted. Obtaining regulatory approval in developing countries also is time-consuming and expensive. In some countries where we are contemplating marketing and selling thymalfasin, the regulatory approval process often relies on prior approvals obtained in the United States or in Europe. Without such prior approvals, our ability to obtain regulatory approvals for thymalfasin in these countries may be delayed or prevented. In addition, to secure these regulatory approvals, we will need, among other things, to demonstrate favorable results from additional clinical trials of thymalfasin. Even if we are able to complete the clinical trials we have sponsored or are planning in a timely or cost-effective manner, these trials may not fulfill the applicable regulatory approval criteria, in which case we will not be able to obtain regulatory approval in these countries, and we have experienced such difficulties and have been unable to meet such regulatory filing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will ultimately obtain regulatory approvals in our targeted countries in a timely and cost-effective manner or at all. If we fail to obtain the required regulatory approvals to develop, market and sell thymalfasin in countries where we currently do not have such rights, our revenues will be limited, and our future prospects will be dependent upon our ability to in-license or to bring earlier stage products to market, any of which will require substantial financial expenditures. Satisfaction of government regulations may take several years and the time needed to satisfy them varies substantially based on the type, complexity and novelty of the pharmaceutical product. As a result, government regulation may cause us to delay the introduction of, or prevent us from marketing, our existing or potential products for a considerable period of time and impose costly procedures upon our activities. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for our products, such approval may impose limitations on the indicated uses for which our products may be marketed. Unsatisfactory data resulting from clinical trials may also adversely affect our ability to market and sell thymalfasin in markets where it is approved for sale. 27 Table of Contents Regulatory approval is necessary to permit us to market the DC Bead in China. If we are unable to secure regulatory approval in China, we will be unable to market the DC Bead in China and our future sales potential in this market could be harmed. In June 2006, we announced our agreement with Biocompatibles International plc. (Biocompatibles) to become the exclusive distributor in China of the DC Bead, a chemotherapeutic drug delivery embolic agent designed to be used in the treatment of liver cancer. While the DC Bead is approved in Europe for the use in the treatment of malignant hypervascularized tumors, it has not yet received regulatory approval in China. Biocompatibles is responsible, with our assistance and financial support of 50% of all costs, for seeking and obtaining the regulatory approval for marketing the product in China. We, on behalf of Biocompatibles, filed a regulatory submission in China in December 2006; however, we cannot give assurance that such submission will be approved by the regulatory authorities. If clinical trials in China are required as part of the regulatory process, the regulatory submission for marketing approval could be delayed for a considerable period of time, and there can be no assurance that the results of clinical trials would support a regulatory submission or that the regulatory authorities would approve the product to be commercialized and sold in China. To the extent that additional information or clinical trials are required by the regulatory authorities, or we do not receive regulatory approval in China, our future sales potential in China could be harmed. If we are not able to establish and maintain adequate manufacturing relationships, the development and sale of our products could be impaired. To be successful, our products must be manufactured in commercial quantities, in compliance with stringent regulatory requirements and at an acceptable cost. Typically we have at any time only one supplier for each phase of manufacturing of our product. At present, we are in the process of negotiating a new long-term supply agreement with our sole supplier of bulk product for the manufacture of thymalfasin for our current markets including China. Failure to secure such agreement, or on favorable terms, would harm our business. The manufacturing facilities of our suppliers are subject to inspection by regulatory authorities to ensure their compliance with regulatory requirements and standards. Manufacturing interruptions or failure to comply with regulatory requirements could significantly delay clinical development of potential products and reduce third-party or clinical researcher interest and support of proposed trials. These interruptions or failures could also impede commercialization of our products, including sales of thymalfasin in approved markets, and impair our competitive position. Any of these developments would harm our business. We are in the process of registering a new supplier for thymalfasin with regulatory agencies in markets where thymalfasin is approved for sale. We have received such registration in China. This process, quality assurance and other steps could cause delays or interruptions of supply in certain other markets. In some countries, a manufacturing change may require additional regulatory approvals that may delay thymalfasin marketing approvals in new markets. In addition, manufacturing, supply and quality control problems may arise as we, either alone or with subcontractors, attempt to scale-up our manufacturing procedures. We may not be able to scale-up in a timely manner or at a commercially reasonable cost, either of which could cause delays or pose a threat to the ultimate commercialization of our products and harm our business. Our business strategy is dependent on our ability to in-license or otherwise acquire the rights to develop and commercialize products. If we fail to acquire such rights or are unsuccessful in our efforts to develop such products and obtain regulatory approval to market and successfully commercialize them, our business will suffer. All of our products, including thymalfasin, the only one for which we have sales revenue, have been in-licensed by us. We do not conduct product discovery and typically have in-licensed our products from third parties who have discovered the products and conducted at least some pre-clinical research on them. The competition for attractive products to in-license is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to in-license products in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, we face the risks of developing the 28 Table of Contents in-licensed products and the risks and uncertainties of conducting clinical trials and seeking regulatory approval to market the in-licensed products, all of which require years of effort and the commitment of significant financial resources. Our ability to grow our business requires the development and commercialization of additional products. If we are unable to in-license products on acceptable terms and successfully develop and commercialize them, our business could be harmed. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional, highly skilled and experienced personnel required for the expansion of our activities, our business will suffer. We are highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel because of the specialized, scientific and worldwide nature of our business. There is intense competition for qualified management, scientific, clinical, regulatory, and sales and marketing personnel in the pharmaceutical industry, and we may not be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel we need to grow and develop our business globally. In particular, our efforts to in-license or acquire, develop and commercialize product candidates for China require the addition of clinical and regulatory personnel and the capabilities to expand our sales and marketing operation. In addition, we assign numerous key responsibilities to a limited number of individuals, and we would experience difficulty in finding immediate replacements for any of them. If we were unable to attract and retain qualified personnel as needed or promptly replace those employees who are critical to our product development and commercialization, the development and commercialization of our products would be adversely affected. At this time, we do not maintain “key person” life insurance on any of our personnel. Because of China’s tiered method of importing and distributing finished pharmaceutical products, our quarterly results may vary substantially from one period to the next. China uses a tiered method to import and distribute finished pharmaceutical products. At each port of entry, and prior to moving the product forward to the distributors, government-licensed importing agents must process and evaluate each shipment to determine whether such shipment satisfies China’s quality assurance requirements. In order to efficiently manage this process, the importing agents typically place large, and therefore relatively few, orders within any six month period. Therefore, our sales to an importing agent can vary substantially from quarter to quarter depending on the size and timing of the orders, which has in the past and may in the future cause our quarterly results to fluctuate. We rely on three to six importers, in any given quarter, to supply substantially all of our product in China. Because we use a small number of importing agents in China, our receivables from any one importing agent are material, and if we were unable to collect receivables from any importer, our business and cash-flow would be adversely affected. Changes in China’s political, social and economic environment may affect our financial performance. Our financial performance may be affected by changes in China’s political, social and economic environment. The role of the Chinese central and local governments in the Chinese economy is significant. Chinese policies toward economic liberalization, and laws and policies affecting foreign companies, currency exchange rates and other matters could change, resulting in greater restrictions on our ability to do business in China. Any imposition of surcharges or any increase in Chinese tax rates could hurt our operating results. The Chinese government could revoke, terminate or suspend our license for national security and similar reasons without compensation to us. If the government of China were to take any of these actions, we would be prevented from conducting all or part of our business. Any failure on our part to comply with governmental regulations could result in the loss of our ability to market our products in China. Our sales of thymalfasin may fluctuate due to seasonality of product orders and sales in any quarter may not be indicative of future sales. Our sales for the quarter ended June 30, 2003 were greatly affected by the demand in China for thymalfasin in connection with the treatment of SARS. To date, SARS has not re-emerged, like influenza, as a seasonal 29 Table of Contents public health problem. However, if SARS or a similar epidemic were to emerge, it is not possible to predict what effect, if any, this would have on future sales of thymalfasin. Although we do not market thymalfasin for use in treating such epidemic diseases, if thymalfasin is purchased in connection with future outbreaks of seasonal viral contagions, product sales could become more concentrated in certain quarters of the calendar year, quarterly sales levels could fluctuate and sales in any quarter may not be indicative of sales in future periods. If we fail to protect our products, technologies and trade secrets, we may not be able to successfully use, manufacture, market or sell our products, or we may fail to advance or maintain our competitive position, and we have limited intellectual property protection in China. Our success depends significantly on our ability to obtain and maintain meaningful patent protection for our products and technologies and to preserve our trade secrets. Our pending patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents in the future. Our patents or patent applications may not have priority over others’ applications. Our existing patents and additional patents that may be issued, if any, may not provide a competitive advantage to us or may be invalidated or circumvented by our competitors. Others may independently develop similar products or design around patents issued or licensed to us. Patents issued to, or patent applications filed by, other companies could harm our ability to use, manufacture, market or sell our products or maintain our competitive position with respect to our products. Although many of our patents relating to thymalfasin have expired, including composition of matter patents, we have rights to other patents and patent applications relating to thymalfasin and thymalfasin analogues, including method of use patents with respect to the use of thymalfasin for certain indications. Additionally, thymosin alpha 1 (thymalfasin), the chemical composition of thymalfasin, has received Orphan Drug designation in the United States for the treatment of stage IIb through stage IV malignant melanoma. If other parties develop generic forms of thymalfasin for other indications, including conducting clinical trials for such indications, our patents and other rights might not be sufficient to prohibit them from marketing and selling such generic forms of thymalfasin. If other parties develop analogues or derivatives of thymalfasin, our patents and other rights might not be sufficient to prohibit them from marketing these analogues or derivatives. Pharmaceutical products are either not patentable or have only recently become patentable in some of the countries in which we market or may market thymalfasin. We do not have patent protection for thymalfasin in China, our largest market. Other companies market generic thymosin alpha 1 in China, sometimes in violation of our trademark or other rights which we defend by informing physicians and hospitals of the practice as well as through the limited legal recourse. Past enforcement of intellectual property rights in many of these countries, including China in particular, has been limited or non-existent. Future enforcement of patents and proprietary rights in many other countries will likely be problematic or unpredictable. Moreover, the issuance of a patent in one country does not assure the issuance of a similar patent in another country. Claim interpretation and infringement laws vary by nation, so the extent of any patent protection is uncertain and may vary in different jurisdictions. If we are involved in intellectual property claims and litigation, the proceedings may divert our resources and subject us to significant liability for damages, substantial litigation expense and the loss of our proprietary rights. Our commercial success depends in part on us not infringing valid, enforceable patents or proprietary rights of third parties, and not breaching any licenses that may relate to our technologies and products. We are aware of a third-party patent that may relate to our products and may cover a method of action used by thymalfasin. We cannot assure you that our mechanism of action does not infringe on their claim. In addition, we may not be aware of all patents or patent applications that may impact our ability to make, use or sell any of our potential products. For example, U.S. patent applications may be kept confidential for 12 or more months while pending in the Patent and Trademark Office, and patent applications filed in foreign countries are often first published six months or more after filing. It is possible that we may unintentionally infringe these patents or other patents or proprietary rights of third parties. We may in the future receive notices claiming infringement from third parties 30 Table of Contents as well as invitations to take licenses under third-party patents. Any legal action against us or our collaborative partners claiming damages and seeking to enjoin commercial activities relating to our products and processes affected by third-party rights may require us or our collaborative partners to obtain licenses in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products and processes. Our efforts to defend against any of these claims, regardless of merit, would require us to devote resources and attention that could have been directed to our operations and growth plans. In addition, these actions may subject us to potential liability for damages. We or our collaborative partners may not prevail in a patent action and any license required under a patent may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. Any conflicts resulting from the patent rights of others could significantly reduce the coverage of our patents and limit our ability to obtain meaningful patent protection. If other companies obtain patents with conflicting claims, we may be required to obtain licenses to those patents or develop or obtain alternative technology to manufacture or market the affected products and processes. We may not be able to obtain any such licenses on acceptable terms or at all. Any failure to obtain such licenses could delay or prevent us from pursuing the development or commercialization of our potential products. Our efforts to defend against any of these claims would require us to devote resources and attention that could have been directed to our operations and growth plans. We may need to initiate litigation, which could be time-consuming and expensive, to enforce our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of others’ rights. If litigation results, a court may find our patents or those of our licensors invalid or may find that we have infringed on a competitor’s rights. If any of our competitors have filed patent applications in the United States which claim technology we also have invented, the Patent and Trademark Office may require us to participate in expensive interference proceedings to determine who has the right to a patent for the technology. These actions may subject us to potential liability for damages. We or our collaborative partners may not prevail in a patent action and any license required under a patent may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. We may not be able to successfully develop or commercialize our products. We may consider strategic alliances with other companies in efforts to broaden our product development pipeline. While we have limited sales of thymalfasin in certain markets, we do not yet have regulatory approval for thymalfasin for the key markets of the United States, Europe and Japan and, in this respect, thymalfasin is still being developed. In 2006 we acquired the rights to distribute the DC Bead in China, but we must receive regulatory approval before we can commercialize this product. Our only other potential products presently are SCV-07 and RP101, and each of them is in an earlier stage of development than thymalfasin. We may consider and undertake various strategies to expand our portfolio of potential products, including acquiring product candidate rights through licenses or other relationships, or through other strategic relationships including acquisitions of other companies that may have proprietary rights to other development candidates or the capability to discover new drug candidates. Such transactions could require a substantial amount of our financial resources, or, if equity is involved, may result in substantial dilution to current stockholders. Strategic transactions also require substantial management time and effort and are subject to various risks that could adversely affect us or our financial results. To fully develop our products, we will need to commit substantial resources to extensive research, development, pre-clinical testing, clinical trials, manufacturing scale-up and regulatory approval prior to the potential products being ready for sale. We cannot assure that our efforts will produce commercially viable products. We face significant technological risks inherent in developing these products. We may also abandon some or all of our proposed products before they become commercially viable. For the DC Bead, we are obligated to pay half of the costs in our efforts to obtain regulatory approval in China. For RP101, we are obligated to make a $1,320,000 milestone payment upon dosage of the first patient in a phase 2 clinical trial, which event occurred in the first quarter of 2008, and to make additional milestone payments if a phase 3 trial is successful. If any of our products, even if developed and approved, cannot be successfully commercialized in a timely manner, our business will be harmed and the price of our stock may decline. 31 Table of Contents We have not yet sold any product other than thymalfasin and our sales have been primarily in a single country, China. Our future revenue growth depends to a great extent on increased market acceptance and commercialization of thymalfasin in additional countries, particularly in the United States, Europe and Japan. If we fail to successfully market thymalfasin, or if we cannot commercialize this drug in the United States and other additional markets, our revenue and operating results will be limited. If unexpected and serious adverse events are reported, or if expected efficacy results are not achieved, it would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future revenue will also depend in part on our ability to develop other commercially viable and accepted products, such as the DC Bead and RP101. Market acceptance of our products will depend on many factors, including our ability to convince prospective customers to use our products as an alternative to other treatments and therapies and to convince prospective strategic partners to market our products effectively and to manufacture our products in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality and at an acceptable cost. In addition, doctors must opt to use treatments involving our products. If doctors elect to use a different course of treatment, demand for our drug products would be reduced. Failure to do any of the above will lead to an unfavorable outcome on the results of our operations. We have a history of operating losses and an accumulated deficit. We expect to incur losses in the near term and may not be profitable in the future. We reported net loss of $9,948,000 for the year ended December 31, 2007. In addition, we have experienced significant operating losses in the past, and as of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $169 million. We expect our operating expenses to increase over the next several years as we plan to dedicate substantially all of our resources to expanding our development, testing and marketing capabilities, and these losses may increase if we cannot increase or sustain revenue. As a result, we may not achieve profitability in the future. We have limited sales, marketing and distribution capabilities outside of China, which may adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize our products. Outside of our current principal market of China, we have limited sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, and we anticipate that we may be relying on third-party collaborators to sell, market and distribute our products for the foreseeable future particularly in the major pharmaceutical markets of the United States, Europe and Japan should we receive regulatory approval to market our products in those territories. If our arrangements with these third parties are not successful, or if we are unable to enter into additional third-party arrangements, we may need to substantially expand our sales, marketing and distribution force. Our efforts to expand may not succeed, or we may lack sufficient resources to expand in a timely manner, either of which will harm our future operating results. Moreover, if we are able to further expand our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, we will begin competing with other companies that have experienced and well-funded operations. If we cannot successfully compete with these larger companies, our revenues may not grow and our business may suffer. We may be subject to product liability lawsuits, and our insurance may be inadequate to cover damages. Clinical trials or marketing of any of our current and potential products may expose us to liability claims from the use of these products. We currently carry product liability insurance. However, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, for clinical and commercial activities or that the insurance would be sufficient to cover any potential product liability claim or recall. If we fail to have sufficient coverage, our business, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. We depend on international sales, and global conditions could negatively affect our operating results. A large majority of our sales are in China. Heightened tensions resulting from the current geopolitical conditions in the Middle East, North Korea and elsewhere could worsen, causing disruptions in foreign trade, 32 Table of Contents which would harm our sales. In particular, our commercial product is manufactured in Europe and distributed by us from our operations in Hong Kong. Any disruption of our supply and distribution activities due to geopolitical conditions could decrease our sales and harm our operating results. Any reoccurrence of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) or the outbreak of a different contagious disease such as the Avian Flu may adversely impact our operations and some of our key customers. The 2003 SARS outbreak was most notable in China and a small number of cases were reported in 2004. There was no significant impact to our ability to fill customer orders. However, if there were to be another outbreak of SARS or a different contagious disease, such as Avian Flu, and if our employees contracted the disease or were restricted from performing routine sales activities, our business could be materially harmed. Finally, if one of our key customers is required to close for an extended period, we might not be able to ship product to them, our revenue would decline and our financial performance would suffer. If we are unable to comply with environmental and other laws and regulations, our business may be harmed. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and recommendations relating to the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and waste products (including radioactive compounds and infectious disease agents), as well as safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices and the experimental use of animals. The extent of government regulation that might result from future legislation or administrative action in these areas cannot be accurately predicted. We do not currently maintain hazardous materials at our facilities. While we outsource our research and development programs involving the controlled use of biohazardous materials, if in the future we conduct these programs ourselves, we might be required to incur significant cost to comply with environmental laws and regulations. Further, in the event of an accident, we would be liable for any damages that result, and the liability could exceed our resources. We may lose market share or otherwise fail to compete effectively in the intensely competitive biopharmaceutical industry. Competition in the biopharmaceutical industry is intense, and we expect that competition will increase. Our success depends on our ability to compete in this industry, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete with our competitors. Increased competitive pressure could lead to intensified price-based competition resulting in lower prices and margins, which would hurt our operating results. We cannot assure you that we will compete successfully against our competitors or that our competitors, or potential competitors, will not develop drugs or other treatments for our targeted indications that will be superior to ours. Our stock price may be volatile, and an investment in our stock could suffer a decline in value. The market price of our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, substantial volatility due to many factors, some of which we have no control over, including: • progress and results of clinical trials involving thymalfasin, RP101 and SCV-07; • progress of thymalfasin through the regulatory process, especially regulatory actions and the adequacy of clinical data and documentation for regulatory purposes in the United States, Europe and Japan; • progress of the DC Bead through the regulatory process, especially regulatory actions and the adequacy of clinical data and documentation for regulatory purposes in China; • timing and achievement of milestones; • changes in our agreements or relationships with collaborative partners; 33 Table of Contents • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • announcement and completion of corporate acquisition, merger, licensing or marketing arrangements, or sales of assets; • government regulatory action affecting our drug products or our competitors’ drug products in both the United States and foreign countries; • developments or disputes concerning patent or proprietary rights; • changes in the composition of our management team or board of directors; • changes in company assessments or financial estimates by securities analysts; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in assessments of our internal controls over financial reporting; • general stock market conditions and fluctuations for the emerging growth and biopharmaceutical market sectors; • economic conditions in the United States or abroad; and • broad financial market fluctuations in the United States, Europe or Asia. In the past, following periods of large price declines in the public market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against that company. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of our attention and resources, which would hurt our business. Any adverse determination in litigation could also subject us to significant liabilities. Substantial sales of our stock or equity in our subsidiaries or the exercise or conversion of options or convertible securities may impact the market price of our common stock. Our collaborative partner Sigma-Tau and affiliates hold a substantial amount of our stock. The stock is freely tradeable and Sigma-Tau is not under any obligation to SciClone which would prevent it from selling some or all of the stock it holds except for applicable U.S. insider trading regulations with respect to possession of material non-public information by Sigma-Tau or its officers and directors. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Similarly, if we raise additional funds through the issuance of common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock or sell equity in a subsidiary, the percentage ownership of our present stockholders of the respective entities will be reduced and the price of our common stock may fall. Sales of our common stock by officers and directors could affect our stock price. Our board of directors has approved an amendment to our trading policy that permits officers and directors to enter into trading plans that comply with the requirements of Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Rule 10b5-1 allows corporate officers and directors to adopt written, pre-arranged stock trading plans when they do not have material, non-public information. Using these plans, officers and directors can gradually diversify their investment portfolios, can spread stock trades out over an extended period of time to reduce any market impact and can avoid concerns about initiating stock transactions at a time when they might be in possession of material, non-public information. As of December 31, 2007, no director or officer has such a plan however an officer or director may do so in the future. We expect future sales by officers and directors either under 10b5-1 plans or otherwise as a result of their personal financial planning. We do not believe the volume of such sales would affect our trading price; however, the market could react negatively to sales by our officers and directors, which could affect the trading price of our stock. 34 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult. Certain anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents as currently in effect may make a change in control of our company more difficult, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our charter documents contain certain anti-takeover provisions, including provisions in our certificate of incorporation providing that stockholders may not cumulate votes, stockholders’ meetings may be called by stockholders only if they hold 25% or more of our common stock and provisions in our bylaws providing that the stockholders may not take action by written consent. Additionally, our board of directors has the authority to issue 10 million shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms of those shares of stock without any further action by the stockholders. The rights of holders of our common stock are subject to the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued. The issuance of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Delaware law also prohibits corporations from engaging in a business combination with any holders of 15% or more of their capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the board of directors approves the transaction. Our board of directors may use these provisions to prevent changes in the management and control of our company. Also, on December 18, 2006, our Board of Directors declared a dividend distribution of one Preferred Stock Purchase Right (collectively, the “Rights”) for each outstanding share of our Common Stock, each Right which entitles the registered holder to purchase from the Company one one-thousandth of a share of the Company’s Series D Preferred Stock, $0.001 par value, at a price of $25.00 pursuant to a Rights Agreement dated as of December 19, 2006, between the Company and Mellon Investor Services LLC. The Rights have certain anti-takeover effects. Under certain circumstances the Rights could cause substantial dilution to a person or group who attempts to acquire the Company on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. Although the Rights should not interfere with an acquisition of the Company approved by the Board, the Rights may have the effect of delaying and perhaps improving the terms of an acquisition for our stockholders, or deterring an acquisition of the Company. Also, under applicable Delaware law, our board of directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future. Our short term investments are subject to certain risks which could materially adversely affect our overall financial position We invest our cash in accordance with an established internal policy and customarily in instruments which historically have been highly liquid and carried relatively low risk. However, with recent turmoil in the credit markets, similar types of investments have experienced losses in value or liquidity issues which differ from their historical pattern. For example, we routinely have invested in money market funds with large financial institutions. One or more of these funds could experience losses or liquidity problems and, although to date some of the largest financial institutions who sponsor such funds have offset similar losses, there is no assurance that our financial institutions would either not incur losses or would offset any losses were they to occur. Further, we hold auction-rate securities (ARS) which are collateralized by student loans with most of such collateral in the aggregate being guaranteed by the U.S. government. These ARS are intended to provide liquidity via an auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at predetermined calendar intervals, usually every month. In February and March 2008, all of our auction-rate security investments experienced failed auctions for a total of $1,800,000, and as a result, our ability to liquidate our investments and fully recover the carrying value of our investments in the near term may be limited or not exist. An auction failure means that the parties wishing to sell securities could not. When an auction fails, the interest rate on such securities resets to a default rate which is usually higher and would require payment by the issuer, affecting its creditworthiness and therefore potentially its ability to redeem such obligations and therefore avoid the higher interest payments. Although we believe we will be able to liquidate our investments without significant loss within the next year and we further believe these securities are not significantly impaired, primarily due to the government guarantee underlying the securities, it could take until the final maturity of the underlying notes to realize our investments’ recorded value. The final maturities of these securities range from 22 to 34 years. We have not written down any of our investments as of December 31, 2007, nor have we reclassified any or our holdings to long-term. Should any of our short term cash 35 Table of Contents investments lose value or have their liquidity impaired, it would materially and adversely affect our overall financial position by imperiling our ability to fund our operations and forcing us to seek additional financing sooner than we would otherwise and such financing may not be available on commercially attractive terms. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and to protect from fraudulent, illegal or unauthorized transactions. If we cannot provide effective controls and reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. Moreover, as a United States-based corporation doing business in China, these controls often need to satisfy the requirements of Chinese law as well as the requirements of United States law which frequently differ in certain aspects. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls that need improvement. Any failure to implement and maintain controls over our financial reporting, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of improvements in our controls, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Any failure to improve our internal controls or to address identified weaknesses in the future, if they were to occur, could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative impact on the trading price of our stock. New accounting pronouncements may impact our financial position or results of operations. Future changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse, unexpected fluctuations in the timing of the recognition of revenues or expenses and may affect our financial position or results of operations. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred with frequency and may occur in the future and this may lead to changes in our accounting policies in the future. One such new pronouncement issued in December 2004 by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) is FASB Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment” (FAS 123R). FAS 123R requires share-based payments to employees and directors, including grants of stock options, to be recognized in the statement of operations based on their fair values. We adopted FAS 123R on January 1, 2006. Accordingly, the adoption of FAS 123R had a significant impact on our results of operations, although it has no impact on our cash or overall financial position. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, we recognized $2,243,000 and $2,446,000, respectively, of stock-based compensation expense in accordance with FAS 123R. New legislation may impact our financial position or results of operations. Compliance with changing regulations concerning corporate governance and public disclosure has resulted in and may continue to result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and The NASDAQ Stock Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours and costs are increasing as a result of this uncertainty and other factors. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment has and may continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. We may be subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Substantially all of our product sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. Fluctuation in the U.S. dollar exchange rate with local currency directly affects the customer’s cost for our product. In particular, a stronger U.S. dollar vis-à-vis the local currency would tend to have an adverse effect on sales and potentially on collection 36 Table of Contents of accounts receivable. In July 2005, China shifted its currency policy by establishing a 2% revaluation of the renminbi and referenced the renminbi to a basket of currencies, with a daily trading band of +/-0.3%. Depending on market conditions and the state of the Chinese economy, it is possible that China will make further adjustments, including moving to a managed float system, with opportunistic interventions. This reserve diversification may negatively impact the United States dollar and U.S. interest rates. A trend to a stronger U.S. dollar would erode margins earned by our Chinese importers and prompt them to ask us to lower our prices. We are subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations as a result of expenses incurred by our foreign operations. In particular, one of our supply arrangements under which we purchase finished products is denominated in euros and costs of our operations in China are paid in local currency. Consequently, changes in exchange rates could unpredictably and adversely affect our operating results and could result in exchange losses. To date, we have not hedged against the risks associated with fluctuations in exchange rates and, therefore, exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse impact on our future operating results and stock price. Our business and operations are especially subject to the risks of earthquakes and other natural catastrophic disasters. Our corporate headquarters are located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known for seismic activity. Although we maintain a disaster recovery policy that includes storage of important corporate data in a different geographic region of the United States, all of our significant corporate data is stored in our headquarters facility and accordingly, a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 