Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information in this report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. Our stock price may be volatile, and an investment in our stock could suffer a decline in value. We have a history of operating losses and an accumulated deficit. Although we reported net income of $11.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, we have experienced significant operating losses in the past, and as of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $165 million. If our operating expenses were to increase or if we were not able to increase or sustain revenue, we may not achieve profitability over the next 12 months. The market price of our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, substantial volatility due to many factors, some of which we have no control over, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • progress and results of clinical trials; • progress of thymalfasin and SCV-07 through the regulatory process, especially regulatory actions and the adequacy of clinical data and documentation for regulatory purposes in the United States, Europe, China and Japan; • finding a partner for the phase 3 trial of thymalfasin for malignant melanoma; • progress of DC BeadTM and ondansetron RapidFilmTM through required clinical studies and the regulatory process, especially regulatory actions and the adequacy of clinical data and documentation for regulatory purposes in China and Vietnam; • timing and achievement of milestones; • changes in our agreements or relationships with collaborative partners; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • announcement and completion of corporate acquisition, merger, licensing or marketing arrangements, or sales of assets; 17 Table of Contents • government regulatory action affecting our drug products or our competitors’ drug products in China, the United States and other foreign countries; • developments or disputes concerning patent or proprietary rights; • changes in the composition of our management team or board of directors; • changes in company assessments or financial estimates by securities analysts; • changes in assessments of our internal controls over financial reporting; • general stock market conditions and fluctuations for the emerging growth and pharmaceutical market sectors; • economic conditions in the United States or abroad; and • broad financial market fluctuations in the United States, Europe or Asia. Our revenue is dependent on our sale of ZADAXIN in China, and if we experience difficulties in our foreign sales efforts, our operating results and financial condition will be harmed. Our product revenue is highly dependent on the sale of ZADAXIN in China. If we experience difficulties in our foreign sales efforts in China, our business will suffer and our operating results and financial condition will be harmed. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, approximately 96% and 94%, respectively, of our ZADAXIN sales were to customers in China. Sales of ZADAXIN in China may be limited due to the low average personal income, lack of patient cost reimbursement, poorly developed infrastructure and competition from other products, including generics. ZADAXIN sales growth in recent years has benefited from the rapidly growing Chinese economy and growing personal disposable income. Sales of ZADAXIN in China could be adversely affected by a slowing or downturn of the Chinese economy. In China, ZADAXIN is approved only for the treatment of hepatitis B virus (“HBV”) and as a vaccine adjuvant. We face competition from pharmaceutical companies who are aggressively marketing competing products for the treatment of HBV and other indications where we believe ZADAXIN may be used on an off-label basis. In addition, several local companies are selling lower-priced, locally manufactured generic thymosin, which is a competitive product and is selling in substantial and increasing quantities. While generic products outsell ZADAXIN in unit volumes, we have been able to maintain an advantage through the reputation of our imported, branded product. We expect such competition to continue and there could be a negative impact on the price and the volume of ZADAXIN sold in China, which would harm our business. Our efforts to in-license or acquire other pharmaceutical products for marketing in China and other markets may be unsuccessful or even if successful may not have a meaningful effect on our dependence on ZADAXIN sales in those markets. In November 2009, thymosin alpha 1, the generic chemical name for our pharmaceutical product ZADAXIN, was included as a Category B product in the National Reimbursed Drug List. We will have to negotiate a new price at the time that our product is reviewed for price adjustment by the authorities. China regulates pharmaceutical prices and pharmaceutical importation. These regulations may reduce prices for ZADAXIN to levels significantly below those that would prevail in an unregulated market, limit the volume of product which may be imported and sold or place high import duties on the product, any of which may limit the growth of our revenues or cause them to decline. We believe that the Chinese government is increasing its efforts to reduce overall health care costs, including through pricing controls. Individual provinces in China and, in some cases, individual hospitals can and have established pricing requirements for a product to be included on formulary lists. In some cases, these prices have been lower than our distributors have been selling ZADAXIN in which case we have been removed from formulary lists, which consequently has reduced sales to certain hospitals and could adversely affect our future sales. The Chinese national and provincial governments regulate product pricing and the maximum prices for ZADAXIN at the provincial level over the next several years, and 18 Table of Contents potentially at the national level. The process and timing for this is unpredictable. We are working on these regulatory processes as well as on potential changes in our business model depending on potential outcomes. We believe we will be able to successfully manage our business in China through this process, however maximum prices could be set at some time in the future which could adversely affect our results or require substantial changes in our business model which may be difficult to implement. We have received regulatory approvals to import and market ZADAXIN in China and to manufacture ZADAXIN and export the product from Italy. In order to continue our sales to China, we need to maintain these approvals. Our license to import ZADAXIN into China needs to be renewed every five years and the next renewal is required in 2013. Although we were successful in obtaining a renewal in 2008, there is no assurance that we will receive renewals in the future when applied for or that the renewals will not be conditioned or limited in ways that limit our ability to sell ZADAXIN in China. Further, our licenses to manufacture and export ZADAXIN from Italy are dependent upon our continuing compliance with regulations in Italy. Our business would be adversely affected if we are not able to maintain these approvals. In order to sell ZADAXIN to the licensed importers in China, our manufacturers must 1) be approved by the Italian Ministry of Health (“AIFA”) and 2) be accepted by the State Food and Drug Administration of China (“SFDA”), the Chinese equivalent to the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), and we must obtain an Imported Drug License from the SFDA permitting the importation of ZADAXIN into China. The license must be renewed every five years, and if we change manufacturers, these changes must 1) be approved by the AIFA in Italy and 2) be accepted by the SFDA. When we change manufacturers we must obtain a new approval. We are currently in the process of changing manufacturer and if we are not successful in obtaining the necessary approval in a timely manner, our business would be adversely affected. Our ZADAXIN sales and operations in other parts of China and the world are subject to a number of risks and increasing regulations, including difficulties and delays in obtaining registrations, renewals of registrations, permits, pricing approvals and reimbursement, increasing regulation of product promotion and selling practices, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and political instability. In addition, we recently experienced a strong upsurge in ZADAXIN sales which we believe is attributable both to the increasing penetration of ZADAXIN within the Chinese market, as well as concerns in China from the H1N1 flu virus. Although we believe that ZADAXIN sales will return to levels more consistent with our established business, distributors and hospitals in China could ultimately be found to have been stockpiling more ZADAXIN than needed for current use in anticipation of potential shortages. If distributors and hospitals that purchase ZADAXIN have indeed been stockpiling more ZADAXIN than needed for current use, our sales of ZADAXIN may suffer as distributors and hospitals use ZADAXIN already in their inventory before purchasing additional product from us. This could lead to uneven future revenue results for ZADAXIN and in turn materially impact our cash flow and business condition. We experience other issues with managing foreign sales operations including long payment cycles, potential difficulties in accounts receivable collection and, especially from significant customers, fluctuations in the timing and amount of orders and the adverse effect of any of these issues on our business could be increased due to the concentration of our business with a small number of distributors. Problems with collections from, or sales to, any one of those distributors could materially adversely affect our results. Operations in foreign countries including China also expose us to risks relating to difficulties in enforcing our proprietary rights, currency fluctuations and adverse or deteriorating economic conditions. If we experience problems with obtaining registrations, complying with reimbursement rules or compliance with foreign country or applicable U.S. laws, adverse or mixed outcome of clinical studies anywhere in the world, or if we experience difficulties in payments or intellectual property matters in foreign jurisdictions, or if significant political, economic or regulatory changes occur, our results could be adversely affected. Moreover, our operations throughout the world including China are potentially subject to the laws and regulations of the United States including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, in addition to the laws and regulations of the local countries. Regulation in China of the activities in the pharmaceutical industry has increased and may continue to undergo significant and unanticipated changes. A number of companies have faced significant expenses or fines as a result of the increasing regulation of, and 19 Table of Contents enforcement activity regarding, the pharmaceutical industry. If we fail to comply with regulations or to carry out controls on our Chinese or other foreign operations in a manner that satisfies all applicable laws, our business would be harmed. The Chinese government has been engaged in an extensive stimulus program in China over the past year. We believe that the Chinese government is reducing these stimulus programs. We believe these programs have had broad effects across the Chinese economy, and the reduction or withdrawal of these programs could adversely affect spending in numerous ways, including reduction of spending on pharmaceutical products including ZADAXIN. Our sales of ZADAXIN may fluctuate due to seasonality of product orders and sales in any quarter may not be indicative of future sales. Our sales for the quarter ended June 30, 2009 were greatly affected by the demand in China for ZADAXIN which we believe was in connection with Influenza A (H1N1). Similarly, our sales for the quarter ended June 30, 2003 were greatly affected by the demand in China for ZADAXIN in connection with the treatment of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”). To date, SARS has not re-emerged, like influenza, as a seasonal public health problem. However, it is not possible to predict what effect, if any, H1N1, SARS, or similar epidemics would have on future sales of ZADAXIN, if they were to emerge. Although we do not market ZADAXIN for use in treating epidemic diseases such as Influenza A (H1N1) or SARS, if ZADAXIN is purchased in connection with outbreaks of seasonal viral contagions, product sales could become more concentrated in certain quarters of the calendar year, quarterly sales levels could fluctuate and sales in any quarter may not be indicative of sales in future periods. We may lose market share or otherwise fail to compete effectively in the intensely competitive pharmaceutical industry. Competition in the pharmaceutical industry in China is intense, and we expect that competition will increase. Our success depends on our ability to compete in this industry, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete with our competitors. Increased competitive pressure could lead to intensified price-based competition resulting in lower prices and margins, which would hurt our operating results. We cannot assure you that we will compete successfully against our competitors or that our competitors, or potential competitors, will not develop drugs or other treatments for our targeted indications that will be superior to ours. We depend on sales in China, and global conditions could negatively affect our operating results or limit our ability to expand our operations outside of China. Changes in China’s political, social and economic environment may affect our financial performance. A large majority of our sales are in China. Heightened tensions resulting from the current geopolitical conditions in the Middle East, North Korea and elsewhere could worsen, causing disruptions in foreign trade, which would harm our sales. In particular, our commercial product is manufactured in Europe and distributed by us from our operations in Hong Kong. Any disruption of our supply and distribution activities due to geopolitical conditions could decrease our sales and harm our operating results. With respect to China, our financial performance may be affected by changes in China’s political, social and economic environment. The role of the Chinese central and local governments in the Chinese economy is significant. Chinese policies toward economic liberalization, and laws and policies affecting foreign companies, currency exchange rates and other matters could change, resulting in greater restrictions on our ability to do business in China. Any imposition of surcharges or any increase in Chinese tax rates could hurt our operating results. The Chinese government could revoke, terminate or suspend our license for national security and similar reasons without compensation to us. If the government of China were to take any of these actions, we would be prevented from conducting all or part of our business. Any failure on our part to comply with governmental regulations could result in the loss of our ability to market our products in China. 20 Table of Contents Because of China’s tiered method of importing and distributing finished pharmaceutical products, our quarterly results may vary substantially from one period to the next. China uses a tiered method to import and distribute finished pharmaceutical products. At each port of entry, and prior to moving the product forward to the distributors, government-licensed importing agents must process and evaluate each shipment to determine whether such shipment satisfies China’s quality assurance requirements. In order to efficiently manage this process, the importing agents typically place large, and therefore relatively few, orders within any nine month period. Therefore, our sales to an importing agent can vary substantially from quarter to quarter depending on the size and timing of the orders, which has in the past and may in the future cause our quarterly results to fluctuate. We rely on a limited number of importers, in any given quarter, to supply substantially all of our product in China. Because we use a small number of importing agents in China, our receivables from any one importing agent are material, and if we were unable to collect receivables from any importer, our business and cash-flow would be adversely affected. We may be subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Substantially all of our product sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. Fluctuation in the U.S. dollar exchange rate with local currency directly affects the customer’s cost for our product. In particular, a stronger U.S. dollar vis-à-vis the local currency would tend to have an adverse effect on sales and potentially on collection of accounts receivable. China currently maintains the value of the renminbi in a narrow currency trading band that may or may not fluctuate based upon government policy. Depending on market conditions and the state of the Chinese economy, it is possible that China could make future adjustments, including moving to a managed float system, with opportunistic interventions. This reserve diversification may negatively impact the United States dollar and U.S. interest rates. A trend to a stronger U.S. dollar would erode margins earned by our Chinese importers and prompt them to ask us to lower our prices. We are subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations as a result of expenses incurred by our foreign operations. In particular, one of our supply arrangements under which we purchase finished products is denominated in euros and costs of our operations in China are paid in local currency. Consequently, changes in exchange rates could unpredictably and adversely affect our operating results and could result in exchange losses. To date, we have not hedged against the risks associated with fluctuations in exchange rates and, therefore, exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse impact on our future operating results and stock price. Our business strategy is dependent on our ability to in-license or otherwise acquire the rights to develop and commercialize products, particularly in China. If we fail to acquire such rights or are unsuccessful in our efforts to develop such products and obtain regulatory approval to market and successfully commercialize them, our business will suffer. All of our products, including ZADAXIN, the only one for which we have sales revenue, have been in-licensed by us. We do not conduct product discovery and typically have in-licensed our products from third parties who have discovered the products and conducted at least some pre-clinical research on them. We are particularly focused on in-licensing products for the China market and the competition for attractive products to in-license is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to in-license products in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, we face the risks of developing the in-licensed products and the risks and uncertainties of conducting clinical trials and seeking regulatory approval to market the in-licensed products, all of which require years of effort and the commitment of significant financial resources. Our ability to grow our business requires the development and commercialization of additional products. If we are unable to in-license or acquire products on acceptable terms and successfully develop and commercialize them, our business could be harmed. 21 Table of Contents We may engage in acquisitions and must successfully integrate any acquired products or companies in order to avoid a material disruption to our business and material adverse effects to our financial results. We may engage in one or more acquisitions of products or companies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: • difficulties and costs in integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired businesses; • inadequate internal control procedures and disclosure controls to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or poor integration of a target company’s or businesses’ procedures and controls; • diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; • potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development; • difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; • insufficient net revenue to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; • potential failure to achieve commercial expectations; • potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies; and • difficulty in forecasting revenues and margins. Acquisitions may also cause us to: • issue common stock that would dilute our current shareholders’ percentage ownership; • assume liabilities, some of which may be unknown at the time of such acquisitions; • record goodwill and intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing and potential periodic impairment charges; • incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; • incur large and immediate write-offs of in-process research and development costs; or • become subject to litigation. Mergers and acquisitions of pharmaceutical companies inherently entail risk, and no assurance can be given that any future acquisitions will be successful or will not adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could harm our business and operating results in a material way. Even when an acquired company has already developed and marketed products, there can be no assurance of the continued prospects or success of such products or that pre-acquisition due diligence will have identified all possible issues that might arise with respect to such products. We may not be able to successfully develop or commercialize our products. While we have sales of ZADAXIN (“thymalfasin or thymalfasin alpha 1”) in certain markets, regulatory approval does not exist at this time for ZADAXIN for the key markets of the United States, Europe (outside of Italy) and Japan and, in this respect ZADAXIN is still being developed. In 2006, we acquired the rights to distribute DC Bead in China, but we must receive regulatory approval before we can commercialize this product. We previously believed that regulatory approval for DC Bead in China would be forthcoming in 2009. However, the SFDA required us to conduct a local trial in China to supplement data already obtained from a previous DC Bead study. This study is underway and if the trial results are positive, we expect to receive regulatory approval for DC Bead by the end of 2010. Our other potential products presently are SCV-07 and ondansetron RapidFilm and each of them is in an earlier stage of development than ZADAXIN. Clinical trials outcomes are uncertain. 22 Table of Contents For example, in October 2009, we halted our phase 2 trial of RP101 and we have no plans to proceed with further development of RP101 at this time. We may consider and undertake various strategies to expand our portfolio of potential products, including acquiring product candidate rights through licenses or other relationships, or through other strategic relationships including acquisitions of other companies that may have proprietary rights to other development candidates or the capability to discover new drug candidates. Such transactions could require a substantial amount of our financial resources, or, if equity is involved, may result in substantial dilution to current stockholders. Strategic transactions also require substantial management time and effort and are subject to various risks that could adversely affect us or our financial results. To fully develop our products, substantial resources are required for extensive research, development, pre-clinical testing, clinical trials, manufacturing scale-up and regulatory approval prior to the potential products being ready for sale. We cannot assure that our efforts will produce commercially viable products. We face significant technological risks inherent in developing these products. We may also abandon some or all of our proposed products before they become commercially viable. For DC Bead, we are obligated to pay half of the costs in our efforts to obtain regulatory approval in China and, due to recent events, the total amount of costs for DC Bead will increase. For ondansetron RapidFilm, we are obligated to make a milestone payment upon regulatory approval. If any of our products, even if developed and approved, cannot be successfully commercialized in a timely manner, our business will be harmed and the price of our stock may decline. We have not yet sold any product other than ZADAXIN and our sales have been primarily to a single country, China. Our future revenue growth depends to a great extent on increased market acceptance and commercialization of ZADAXIN in additional countries, as well as our ability to increase sales in China. If we fail to successfully market ZADAXIN or if we cannot commercialize this drug in the United States and other additional markets, our revenue and operating results will be limited. If unexpected and serious adverse events are reported, or if expected efficacy results are not achieved, it would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future revenue will also depend in part on our ability to develop other commercially viable and accepted products, such as DC Bead, ondansetron RapidFilm, and SCV-07. Market acceptance of our products will depend on many factors, including our ability to convince prospective customers to use our products as an alternative to other treatments and therapies and to convince prospective strategic partners to market our products effectively and to manufacture our products in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality and at an acceptable cost. In addition, doctors must opt to use treatments involving our products. If doctors elect to use a different course of treatment, demand for our drug products would be reduced. Failure to do any of the above will lead to an unfavorable outcome on the results of our operations. Higher than anticipated patient drop out rates in our clinical trials could adversely affect trial results and make it more difficult to obtain regulatory approval. In December 2005 and June 2006, we announced results from our two U.S. phase 3 HCV clinical trials. These clinical trials did not demonstrate that the combination of ZADAXIN and pegylated interferon alpha provides a statistically significant clinical benefit when compared to the use of pegylated interferon alpha alone in non-responder patients. These results made Sigma-Tau Finanziaria, S.p.A.’s (“Sigma-Tau’s”) efforts to fully recruit patients for the ZADAXIN phase 3 HCV triple therapy combination trial, ongoing at that time, more difficult and enrollment took longer than planned. A patient who drops out at any point during a trial is considered a “failure to respond” in results of the clinical trial. In general, the fewer patients who complete each trial, the higher the positive response rate for the group of remaining treated patients in such trial needs to be in order to demonstrate statistical significance. Therefore, a higher than anticipated dropout rate lowers the chances of proving statistical significance which could adversely affect clinical trial results. Dropouts may affect the oral mucositis phase 2 clinical trial for SCV-07 or our HCV phase 2 trial for SCV-07 and other trials we conduct. 23 Table of Contents We cannot predict the safety profile of the use of thymalfasin, DC Bead, ondansetron RapidFilm or SCV-07 when used in combination with other drugs. Many of our trials involve the use of thymalfasin in combination with other drugs and our pancreatic cancer clinical trial involved RP101 in combination with gemcitabine. SCV-07 may be developed to be used in combination with other drugs. Some of these drugs, particularly pegylated interferon alpha, ribavirin, non-pegylated interferon alpha, dacarbazine and gemcitabine are known to cause adverse patient reactions. We cannot predict how thymalfasin, DC Bead, ondansetron RapidFilm or SCV-07 will work with other drugs, including causing possible adverse side effects not directly attributable to the other drugs that could compromise the safety profile of thymalfasin, DC Bead, ondansetron RapidFilm or SCV-07 when used in certain combination therapies. Final results from our proposed or ongoing clinical trials for thymalfasin, SCV-07, ondansetron RapidFilm, and DC Bead may differ materially from interim or pre-clinical trial results. These clinical trials could be affected by the future actions of our partners, unexpected delays, unanticipated patient drop out rates or adverse side effects, future actions by the SFDA or the FDA or equivalent regulatory authorities in Europe or other countries or additional expenses. Our ability to achieve and sustain operating profitability depends in large part on our ability to commence, execute and complete clinical programs and obtain additional regulatory approvals for ZADAXIN and other drug candidates. Clinical trials are inherently risky and may reveal that our product candidates are ineffective or have unanticipated side effects and/or drug interactions that may significantly decrease the likelihood of regulatory approval. In October 2009, we announced the discontinuation of our phase 2 clinical trial evaluating RP101, a nucleoside analog known as BVdU, for the treatment of late-stage pancreatic cancer. This decision followed the recommendation of the trial’s Data Safety Monitoring Committee (“DSMC”) based upon the data reviewed at the most recent DSMC meeting and we have no plans to proceed with further development of RP101 at this time. In addition, on November 5, 2008, we announced the top-line results from a large, randomized, phase 3 clinical trial evaluating thymalfasin in combination with pegylated interferon alpha-2a (“peg-IFN-2a”) and ribavirin (“RBV”) as a treatment for patients with hepatitis C virus (“HCV”) who have not responded to prior therapy consisting of peg-IFN and RBV alone (current standard of care). The thymalfasin treated group did not achieve statistical significance for the primary end point of sustained virological response (“SVR”) as assessed in the primary analysis population, i.e. the intent-to-treat population. In the prospectively defined secondary population of patients who completed the full course of 48 weeks of treatment with thymalfasin in addition to peg-IFN-2a and RBV (“Completer Population”), the primary endpoint was achieved with statistical significance. These results did not meet our expectations based upon prior clinical trials. Similarly, the results of our thymalfasin phase 2 melanoma clinical trial do not necessarily predict future clinical or commercial success. Finally, the results of studies in DC Bead, ondansetron RapidFilm, SCV-07, including a phase 2a for HCV, pre-clinical and phase 1 trial results also do not predict clinical or commercial success. We may face numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, clinical trials that could delay or prevent commercialization of our product candidates including: our product candidate clinical trials may not prove statistical significance; negative or inconclusive clinical trial results may require us to conduct further testing or we may choose to abandon projects that we had been expecting to complete; clinical trials may be halted due to safety reasons; patient drop out rates in our clinical trial may be higher than anticipated; the FDA, its European equivalent EMEA or the SFDA may not approve our products for commercialization or may require additional clinical trial data prior to approving our products; and/or our future expenses and ability to proceed with a trial may be dependent in part on finding a partner. Moreover, if the outcome of any of these trials is unsuccessful, or even if successful, does not achieve commercially meaningful results, our business could be harmed. 24 Table of Contents If third-party reimbursement is not available or patients cannot otherwise pay for ZADAXIN, DC Bead, ondansetron RapidFilm, or SCV-07, we may not be able to successfully market them. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of new therapeutic products, such as ZADAXIN, and once commercialized, DC Bead, ondansetron RapidFilm and SCV-07. We cannot assure you that third-party insurance coverage and reimbursement will be available for therapeutic products we might develop. Reimbursement is generally not available for ZADAXIN in China and we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain existing reimbursements or increase third-party payments for ZADAXIN or obtain third-party payments for DC Bead in China or ondansetron RapidFilm in China or Vietnam. The failure to obtain or maintain third-party reimbursement for our products would harm our business. Further, we cannot assure you that additional limitations will not be imposed in the future in the United States or elsewhere on drug coverage and reimbursement due to proposed health care reforms. In many emerging markets where we have marketing rights to ZADAXIN, but where government resources and per capita income may be so low that our products will be prohibitively expensive, we may not be able to market our products on economically favorable terms, if at all. Efforts by governmental and third-party payers to contain or reduce health care costs or the announcement of legislative proposals or reforms to implement government controls could cause us to reduce the prices at which we market our drugs, which would reduce our gross margins and may harm our business. If we do not obtain regulatory approval for thymalfasin, SCV-07, ondansetron RapidFilm or DC Bead for the intended indications that we are evaluating, our revenues will be limited and our operating results may be materially affected. Our ability to execute on our business strategy is largely dependent on our ability to obtain regulatory approval for the use of thymalfasin in major markets, for the use of SCV-07 in major markets, excluding Russia, for the use of ondansetron RapidFilm in China and Vietnam, and for the use of DC Bead in China. The regulatory approval processes in the United States, Europe and China are demanding and typically require 12 months or more in the United States and China and 18 months or more in Europe from the date of submission of an NDA. We have committed significant resources, including capital and time, to develop these products, and intend to continue to do so, including the initiation and execution of additional clinical trials, with the goal of obtaining such approvals. If we do not obtain these approvals, we will be unable to achieve any revenue from these products in these major markets and our thymalfasin sales in other jurisdictions could decline. We believed that regulatory approval for DC Bead would be forthcoming in 2009. However, the SFDA required us to conduct a local trial in China to supplement data already obtained from a previous DC Bead study. The study is underway and if the trial results are positive, we expect to receive regulatory approval for DC Bead by the end of 2010. However, we cannot give assurance that such submission will be approved by the regulatory authorities. If additional clinical trials in China are required as part of the regulatory process, the regulatory submission for marketing approval could be delayed for a considerable period of time, and there can be no assurance that the results of clinical trials would support a regulatory submission or that the regulatory authorities would approve the product to be commercialized and sold in China. To the extent that additional information or clinical trials are required by the regulatory authorities, or we do not receive regulatory approval in China, our future sales potential in China could be harmed. All new drugs, including our products, which have been developed or are under development, are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by the FDA, SFDA and similar regulatory agencies. These regulations govern, among other things, the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, pre-market approval, importation, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of our products. These regulations may change from time to time and new regulations may be adopted. Satisfaction of government regulations may take several years and the time needed to satisfy them varies substantially based on the type, complexity and novelty of the pharmaceutical product. As a result, government regulation may cause us to delay the introduction of, or prevent us from marketing, our existing or potential 25 Table of Contents products for a considerable period of time and impose costly procedures upon our activities. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for our products, such approval may impose limitations on the indicated uses for which our products may be marketed. Further unsatisfactory data resulting from clinical trials may also adversely affect our ability to market and sell thymalfasin in markets where it is approved for sale. We rely on third parties who are our sole source suppliers for our clinical trial and commercial products and their inability to deliver products that meet our quality-control standards could delay or harm one or more important areas of our business including our sales, clinical trials or the regulatory approval process. We rely on third parties, who are subject to regulatory oversight, to supply our clinical and commercial products. For example, Biocompatibles is the sole supplier of DC Bead, Applied Pharma Research S.A. (“APR”) is the sole supplier of ondansetron RapidFilm, and Solvay Peptides S.A. is our sole supplier of SCV-07. Any unanticipated deficiencies in these suppliers, or the suppliers or our raw materials, and/or recall of the manufacturing lots or similar action regarding the pegylated interferon alpha, ribavirin or gemcitabine used in our clinical trials could delay the trials or detract from the integrity of the trial data and its potential use in future regulatory filings. In addition, manufacturing interruptions or failure to comply with regulatory requirements by any of these suppliers could significantly delay clinical development of potential products and reduce third-party or clinical researcher interest and support of proposed trials. These interruptions or failures could also impede commercialization of our products and impair our competitive position. Further, any deficiencies or shortages in supply of our commercial products would adversely affect our ability to realize our sales plans. For example, the manufacturing of the raw material and the processing to finished product of ZADAXIN is done in few batches in any given three-month period and any manufacturing errors have the potential to require a product recall. During 2006, we experienced failures and lower yields on production runs from our sole supplier of bulk active pharmaceutical ingredient (“API”) product for the manufacture of ZADAXIN for our current markets, including China. During 2009, we have experienced quality-control problems with a component of our ZADAXIN kit. Although we are taking steps to ensure that such problems do not continue, there is no assurance that we will either be successful in doing so with our current supplier or be able to timely and cost-effectively qualify a new supplier for this component. Manufacturing interruptions or failure or delay of product to meet quality assurance specifications could adversely affect shipments and recognition of sales of ZADAXIN in any period and impair our relationships with customers and our competitive position and may increase the cost of material produced. We are in the process of registering new suppliers for ZADAXIN with regulatory agencies in markets where thymalfasin is approved for sale, including China. This process, quality assurance and other steps could cause delays or interruptions of supply in certain other markets. In some countries, a manufacturing change may require additional regulatory approvals that may delay thymalfasin marketing approvals in new markets. In addition, if sales of ZADAXIN were to increase dramatically, our third-party suppliers may not be able to supply ZADAXIN either quickly enough or at a commercially reasonable cost, which could limit our ability to satisfy increased demand or could adversely affect the ability of these suppliers to provide products for our clinical trials. If any of our suppliers are unable to match our need for supply, either because of product defects, inability to increase supply in the face of increased demand, or maintain financially viable businesses, our ability to effect our sales and protect our brand reputation would be materially impaired, thereby materially and adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. We rely on third parties for development of our products and the inability of any of these parties to reliably, timely or cost-effectively provide us with their obligated services could materially harm the timing of bringing our products to market and accordingly adversely affect our business. We rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators, contract laboratories, and collaborative partners in the conduct of clinical trials for our product candidates. If these parties, whom we do not control, do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines or choose not to continue their relationship with us, if the third parties 26 Table of Contents need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our pre-clinical or clinical activities may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize our product candidates. Commercialization of some of our products depends on collaborations with others. If our collaborators are not successful, or if we are unable to find future collaborators, we may not be able to properly develop and commercialize our products. We depend in part on our distributors and business partners to develop or promote our drugs, and if they are not successful in their efforts or fail to do so, our business will suffer. For example, Sigma-Tau is responsible for the development and marketing of ZADAXIN in most of Europe. Biocompatibles is providing SciClone with the necessary supporting documents to obtain regulatory approval in China for DC Bead, APR is providing SciClone with the necessary supporting documents to obtain regulatory approval in China and Vietnam for ondansetron RapidFilm. We generally do not have control over the amount and timing of resources that our business partners devote to our collaborative efforts, and some have not always performed as or when expected. If they do not perform their obligations as we expect, particularly obligations regarding clinical trials, our development expenses would increase and the development or sale of our products could be limited or delayed, which could hurt our business and cause our stock price to decline. In addition, our relationships with these companies may not be successful. Disputes may arise with our collaborators, including disputes over ownership rights to intellectual property, know-how or technologies developed with our collaborators. We may not be able to negotiate similar additional arrangements in the future to develop and commercialize ZADAXIN or other products. If we are unable to manage our key personnel, or are unable to attract and retain additional, highly skilled and experienced personnel, our business will suffer. We are highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel because of the specialized, scientific and worldwide nature of our business. Further, we are also dependent on our ability to appropriately staff these personnel in appropriate positions as our business fluctuates. There is intense competition for qualified management, scientific, clinical, regulatory, and sales and marketing personnel in the pharmaceutical industry. There is significant turnover in the industry in China in particular, and we have recently experienced significant turnover in our sales personnel. We may not be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel we need to grow and develop our business globally. Conversely, in the event that we need to reduce the size of a particular aspect of our business, we are also dependent on our ability to make such adjustments while retaining suitably skilled personnel. Further, our efforts to in-license or acquire, develop and commercialize product candidates for China require the addition of clinical and regulatory personnel and the capabilities to expand our sales and marketing operation. In addition, we assign numerous key responsibilities to a limited number of individuals, and we would experience difficulty in finding immediate replacements for any of them were any one of them to choose to leave employment with us. If we were unable to attract and retain qualified personnel as needed or promptly replace those employees who are critical to our product development and commercialization, the development and commercialization of our products would be adversely affected. At this time, we do not maintain “key person” life insurance for any of our personnel. We may need to obtain additional funding to support our long-term product development and commercialization programs. We believe our existing cash and investments and ongoing revenue generating business operations will be sufficient to support our current operating plan for at least the next 12 months. However, our ability to achieve and sustain operating profitability is dependent on numerous factors including our ability to achieve our goal of increasing sales of ZADAXIN, securing regulatory approval for DC Bead in China, and for ondansetron RapidFilm in China and Vietnam, the execution and successful completion of thymalfasin, SCV-07, and DC Bead clinical trials and securing partnerships for those programs that lead to regulatory approvals in major 27 Table of Contents pharmaceutical markets. We cannot assure you that such funds from operating activities will be sufficient, or that we will attain profitable operations in future periods. In addition, we intend to develop other products and we may need additional funds in the future to support such development and to support future growth and achieve profitability. We may also need additional cash to fund a portion of the proposed late-stage trial evaluating thymalfasin for stage IV melanoma if we are able to partner that program, and depending on the terms of any partnership. If we need to raise additional funds in the future and such funds are not available on reasonable terms, if at all, our commercialization efforts may be impeded, our revenues may be limited and our operating results may suffer. If we fail to protect our products, technologies and trade secrets, we may not be able to successfully use, manufacture, market or sell our products, or we may fail to advance or maintain our competitive position, and we have limited intellectual property protection in China. Our success depends significantly on our ability to obtain and maintain meaningful patent protection for our products and technologies and to preserve our trade secrets. Our pending patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents in the future. Our patents or patent applications may not have priority over others’ applications. Our existing patents and additional patents that may be issued, if any, may not provide a competitive advantage to us or may be invalidated or circumvented by our competitors. Others may independently develop similar products or design around patents issued or licensed to us. Patents issued to, or patent applications filed by, other companies could harm our ability to use, manufacture, market or sell our products or maintain our competitive position with respect to our products. Although many of our patents relating to thymalfasin have expired, including composition of matter patents, we have rights to other patents and patent applications relating to thymalfasin and thymalfasin analogues, including method of use patents with respect to the use of thymalfasin for certain indications. Additionally, thymosin alpha 1 (“thymalfasin”), the chemical composition of thymalfasin, has received Orphan Drug designation in the United States for the treatment of stage IIb through stage IV melanoma. If other parties develop generic forms of thymalfasin for other indications, including conducting clinical trials for such indications, our patents and other rights might not be sufficient to prohibit them from marketing and selling such generic forms of thymalfasin. If other parties develop analogues or derivatives of thymalfasin, our patents and other rights might not be sufficient to prohibit them from marketing these analogues or derivatives. Pharmaceutical products are either not patentable or have only recently become patentable in some of the countries in which we market or may market thymalfasin. We do not have composition patent claims directed to the same form of thymalfasin currently marketed in China, our largest market, although we do have other type of patent claims, pending or issued, directed to other aspects of thymalfasin therapy. Other companies market generic thymosin alpha 1 in China, sometimes in violation of our patent, trademark or other rights which, to date, we have defended by informing physicians and hospitals of the practice. Past enforcement of intellectual property rights in many of these countries, including China in particular, has been limited or non-existent. Future enforcement of patents and proprietary rights in many other countries will likely be problematic or unpredictable. Moreover, the issuance of a patent in one country does not assure the issuance of a similar patent in another country. Claim interpretation and infringement laws vary by nation, so the extent of any patent protection is uncertain and may vary in different jurisdictions. If we are involved in intellectual property claims and litigation, the proceedings may divert our resources and subject us to significant liability for damages, substantial litigation expense and the loss of our proprietary rights. Our commercial success depends in part on our not infringing valid, enforceable patents or proprietary rights of third parties, and not breaching any licenses that may relate to our technologies and products. In addition, we may not be aware of all patents or patent applications that may impact our ability to make, use or sell any of our potential products. For example, U.S. patent applications may be kept confidential for 12 or more months while pending in the Patent and Trademark Office, and patent applications filed in foreign countries are 28 Table of Contents often first published nine months or more after filing. It is possible that we may unintentionally infringe these patents or other patents or proprietary rights of third parties. We may in the future receive notices claiming infringement from third parties as well as invitations to take licenses under third-party patents. Any legal action against us or our collaborative partners claiming damages and seeking to enjoin commercial activities relating to our products and processes affected by third-party rights may require us or our collaborative partners to obtain licenses in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products and processes. Our efforts to defend against any of these claims, regardless of merit, would require us to devote resources and attention that could have been directed to our operations and growth plans. In addition, these actions may subject us to potential liability for damages. We or our collaborative partners may not prevail in a patent action and any license required under a patent may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. Any conflicts resulting from the patent rights of others could significantly reduce the coverage of our patents and limit our ability to obtain meaningful patent protection. If other companies obtain patents with conflicting claims, we may be required to obtain licenses to those patents or develop or obtain alternative technology to manufacture or market the affected products and processes. We may not be able to obtain any such licenses on acceptable terms or at all. Any failure to obtain such licenses could delay or prevent us from pursuing the development or commercialization of our potential products. Our efforts to defend against any of these claims would require us to devote resources and attention that could have been directed to our operations and growth plans. We may need to initiate litigation, which could be time-consuming and expensive, to enforce our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of others’ rights. If litigation results, a court may find our patents or those of our licensors invalid or may find that we have infringed on a competitor’s rights. If any of our competitors have filed patent applications in the United States which claim technology we also have invented, the Patent and Trademark Office may require us to participate in expensive interference proceedings to determine who has the right to a patent for the technology. These actions may subject us to potential liability for damages. We or our collaborative partners may not prevail in a patent action and any license required under a patent may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. Substantial sales of our stock or equity in our subsidiaries or the exercise or conversion of options or convertible securities may impact the market price of our common stock. Our collaborative partner Sigma-Tau and affiliates hold a substantial amount of our stock. The stock is freely tradable and Sigma-Tau is not under any obligation to SciClone which would prevent it from selling some or all of the stock it holds except for applicable U.S. insider trading regulations with respect to possession of material non-public information by Sigma-Tau or its officers and directors. In May 2009, we filed a Form S-3 Shelf registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) which was later declared effective by the SEC and will allow us to sell securities in one or more offerings. Future issuances of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Similarly, if we raise additional funds through the issuance of common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock or sell equity in a subsidiary, the percentage ownership of our present stockholders of the respective entities will be reduced and the price of our common stock may fall. Our cash and investments are subject to certain risks which could materially adversely affect our overall financial position. We invest our cash in accordance with an established internal policy and customarily in instruments which historically have been highly liquid and carried relatively low risk. However, with turmoil in the credit markets, similar types of investments have experienced losses in value or liquidity issues which differ from their historical pattern. For example, we routinely have invested in money market funds with large financial institutions. One or more of these funds could experience losses or liquidity problems and, although to date some of the largest 29 Table of Contents financial institutions who sponsor such funds have offset similar losses, there is no assurance that our financial institutions would either not incur losses or would offset any losses were they to occur. Further, we hold auction rate securities (“ARS”) which are collateralized by student loans with most of such collateral in the aggregate being guaranteed by the U.S. government. These ARS are intended to provide liquidity via an auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at predetermined calendar intervals, usually every month. As of December 31, 2009, we held $1.6 million of auction rate security investments and all of these had experienced failed auctions since February 2008. An auction failure means that the parties wishing to sell securities could not. When an auction fails, the interest rate on such securities resets to a default rate which is usually higher and would require payment by the issuer, affecting its creditworthiness and therefore potentially its ability to redeem such obligations and therefore avoid the higher interest payments. In November 2008, we accepted an Auction Rate Securities Rights Offer (“Rights Offer”) from UBS AG under which, in return for a general release of claims and the grant of a right to UBS AG to purchase our ARS at any time for full par value, we received the right to require UBS AG to purchase at par value our ARS beginning in 2010 (“the Rights”). The Rights are non-transferable. Upon acceptance, we granted UBS AG the sole discretion and right to sell or dispose of, and/or enter orders in the auction process with respect to the eligible ARS on our behalf-without prior notification to us from UBS AG, as long as we receive a payment at par upon any sale or disposition. As a result, our ability to liquidate these investments and fully recover the carrying value of these investments in the near term is limited or may not exist. We have written down our ARS investments by $0.2 million as of December 31, 2009. Should our ARS investments continue to lose value, or should any of our other cash investments permanently lose value or have their liquidity impaired, it would have a material and adverse effect on our overall financial position by imperiling our ability to fund our operations and forcing us to seek additional financing sooner than we would otherwise and such financing may not be available on commercially attractive terms. In addition, financial instruments may subject us to a concentration of credit risk. Substantially all of our cash, and cash equivalents are held by a limited number of financial institutions including all of our term deposits held by financial institutions in Hong Kong and offshore. Such term deposits do not exceed federally insured limits and to date, we have not experienced any losses on our deposits of cash and cash equivalents. However, if any of these instruments permanently lost value or had their liquidity impaired, it would also have a material and adverse effect on our overall financial position by imperiling our ability to fund our operations and forcing us to seek additional financing sooner than we would otherwise and such financing may not be available on commercially attractive terms. New accounting pronouncements may impact our financial position or results of operations. Future changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse, unexpected fluctuations in the timing of the recognition of revenues or expenses and may affect our financial position or results of operations. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred with frequency and may occur in the future and this may lead to changes in our accounting policies in the future. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and to protect from fraudulent, illegal or unauthorized transactions. If we cannot provide effective controls and reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. Moreover, as a United States-based corporation doing business in China, these controls often need to satisfy the requirements of Chinese law as well as the requirements of United States law which frequently differ in certain aspects. We have in the past discovered, and 30 Table of Contents may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls that need improvement. For example, our management determined that as of December 31, 2008 we had a material weakness in our internal controls related to our failure to expense approximately $540,000 in research and development costs related to changes in the scope of activities performed by our clinical research organization during 2008. Although we have since taken steps to rectify this material weakness, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in this regard. Any failure to implement and maintain controls over our financial reporting, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of improvements in our controls, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Any failure to improve our internal controls or to address identified weaknesses in the future, including with respect to our clinical research expenses, if they were to occur, could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative impact on the trading price of our stock. New legislation may impact our financial position or results of operations. Compliance with changing regulations concerning corporate governance and public disclosure has resulted in and may continue to result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and The NASDAQ Stock Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours and costs are increasing as a result of this uncertainty and other factors. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment has and may continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Currently a majority of our revenue is generated form customers located outside the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets, including employees, are located outside the United States. United States income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings of non-United States subsidiaries, because such earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. President Obama’s administration has recently announced initiatives that would substantially reduce our ability to defer U.S. taxes including: repeal deferral of U.S. taxation of foreign earnings, eliminate utilization or substantially reduce our ability to claim foreign tax credits, and eliminates various tax deductions until foreign earnings are repatriated to the United States. If any of these proposals are constituted into legislation, they could have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. We may be subject to product liability lawsuits, and our insurance may be inadequate to cover damages. Clinical trials of any of our current and potential products or the actual commercial sales of our product may expose us to liability claims from the use of these products. We currently carry product liability insurance. However, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, for clinical and commercial activities or that the insurance would be sufficient to cover any potential product liability claim or recall. If we fail to have sufficient coverage, our business, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. If we are unable to comply with environmental and other laws and regulations, our business may be harmed. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and recommendations relating to the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and waste products (including radioactive compounds and infectious disease agents), as well as safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices and the experimental use of animals. The extent of government regulation that might result from future legislation or administrative action in these areas cannot be accurately predicted. 31 Table of Contents We do not currently maintain hazardous materials at our facilities. While we outsource our research and development programs involving the controlled use of biohazardous materials, if in the future we conduct these programs ourselves, we might be required to incur significant cost to comply with environmental laws and regulations. Further, in the event of an accident, we would be liable for any damages that result, and the liability could exceed our resources. We are at risk of securities class action litigation. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology companies have experienced greater than average stock price volatility in recent years. If we faced such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult. Certain anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents as currently in effect may make a change in control of our company more difficult, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our charter documents contain certain anti-takeover provisions, including provisions in our certificate of incorporation providing that stockholders may not cumulate votes, stockholders’ meetings may be called by stockholders only if they hold 25% or more of our common stock and provisions in our bylaws providing that the stockholders may not take action by written consent. Additionally, our board of directors has the authority to issue 10 million shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms of those shares of stock without any further action by the stockholders. The rights of holders of our common stock are subject to the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued. The issuance of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Delaware law also prohibits corporations from engaging in a business combination with any holders of 15% or more of their capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the board of directors approves the transaction. Our board of directors may use these provisions to prevent changes in the management and control of our company. Also, on December 18, 2006, our Board of Directors declared a dividend distribution of one Preferred Stock Purchase Right (collectively, the “Rights”) for each outstanding share of our Common Stock, each Right which entitles the registered holder to purchase from the Company one one-thousandth of a share of the Company’s Series D Preferred Stock, $0.001 par value, at a price of $25.00 pursuant to a Rights Agreement dated as of December 19, 2006, between the Company and Mellon Investor Services LLC. The Rights have certain anti-takeover effects. Under certain circumstances the Rights could cause substantial dilution to a person or group who attempts to acquire the Company on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. Although the Rights should not interfere with an acquisition of the Company approved by the Board, the Rights may have the effect of delaying and perhaps improving the terms of an acquisition for our stockholders, or deterring an acquisition of the Company. Also, under applicable Delaware law, our board of directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future. Our business and operations are subject to the risks of being based in particular locations known for earthquakes, other natural catastrophic disasters and service interruptions. Our corporate headquarters are located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known for seismic activity. Although we maintain a disaster recovery policy that includes storage of important corporate data in a different geographic region of the United States, all of our significant corporate data is stored in our headquarters facility and accordingly, a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Most of our sales are into China for which we maintain a sole warehouse for finished goods in Hong Kong, which can experience severe typhoon storms. Although our distributors in China maintain several months supply of our product, were our warehouse 32 Table of Contents capability to be interrupted, either through a natural disaster such as flooding or through a service interruption, such as a lack of electricity to power required air conditioning, our ability to timely deliver finished product to China could be adversely affected which in turn would materially adversely affect our sales and ensuing operating results. We May Be Affected by Climate Change and Market or Regulatory Responses to Climate Change Climate change, including the impact of global warming, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity if it were to disrupt the demand, supply or delivery of product, management of our business, or result in cost increases as a result of government regulation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 