Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Industry The markets for our services are intensely competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully against existing and future competitors and, as a result, we may not be able to maintain or increase our market share and revenues. The markets for our services are intensely competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future. For information regarding the markets in which we compete, see “Business – Competition.” Many of our current and potential competitors, such as major telecommunications, equipment, software and application service providers, have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, more robust service offerings, more comprehensive support organizations, larger customer bases, and substantially greater financial, personnel, marketing, engineering, technical and other resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer demands. They may also be able to devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services. We believe that our current competitors are likely to expand their service offerings and new competitors 10 are likely to enter our markets. Some of our existing and potential competitors may enter into or expand their positions in the markets in which we compete through acquisitions, strategic alliances and the development of integrated service offerings. For example, West acquired Televox Software and CenterPost Communications in the automated notifications space, as well as several conferencing services providers, including Genesys, Raindance Communications, Inc., InterCall, ConferenceCall.com, ECI Conference Call Services, LLC and Sprint Nextel Corporation’s conferencing division. Cisco Systems acquired WebEx Communications to augment its premises-based conferencing offerings, and Microsoft acquired PlaceWare, Inc. and integrated PlaceWare’s services into its suite of Office series of applications. Also, we compete with companies with whom we also have distribution relationships or with whom we resell certain of their services. Increased competition could result in price pressure on our products and services and a decrease in our market share in the various markets in which we compete, either of which could hinder our ability to grow our revenues. Technological changes and the development of alternatives to our services may cause us to lose customers and market share and may hinder our ability to maintain or grow our revenues. The market for our services is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new service introductions and evolving industry standards. We expect new services and enhancements to existing services to be developed and introduced that will compete with our services. Technological advances may result in the development and commercial availability of alternatives to or new methods of delivering our services and pricing options that could be more attractive to our customers. These developments could cause our existing services to become obsolete, result in significant pricing pressure on our services or allow our existing and potential customers to meet their own business communications needs without using our services. For example, if customers more rapidly adopt IP-based conferencing services or IP-based PBX systems and we are unable to provide those services or a reasonable alternative, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Because we do not typically have long-term or exclusive contractual agreements with our customers, and many of our larger enterprise customers allocate their business among several providers, any of these developments could result in significant customer loss. We must continually introduce new services and enhancements to existing services in response to technological changes, evolving industry standards and customer demands. Our ability to successfully develop and market new such services and enhancements depends, in part, on our ability to: foresee changes in industry standards; anticipate and apply advances in technologies; enhance our software, applications, equipment, systems and networks; and attract and retain qualified and creative technical personnel. Our new services and enhancements may not be as successful as our competitors’ solutions. If this is the case, we will not be able to gain market share and increase our revenues if we are unable to develop new services, or if we experience delays in the introduction of new services. We are subject to pricing pressures for our services which could cause us to lose market share and decrease revenues and profitability. We compete for customers based on several factors, including price. A decrease in the rates charged for services by our competitors could cause us to reduce the rates we charge for our services. If we cannot compete based on price, we may lose market share. If we reduce our rates without increasing our volume or our market share, our revenues could decrease. For example, in the past three years, increased competition and decreased demand for our legacy broadcast fax services resulted in a decrease in revenue from these services. We expect revenue from broadcast fax services to continue to decline in the future. We have also experienced declines in the average selling price per minute of services across our solution sets, including within our PGiMeet solutions, which we currently expect to continue. In some cases, our competitors may offer their services at reduced rates or free on a trial basis in order to win customers. In addition, telecommunications service providers may have lower telecommunications costs as a result of their ownership of the underlying telecommunications network and can offer 11 services similar to ours at reduced rates as a result. Due to competitive factors and the rapidly changing marketplace for our services, we have reduced our pricing in certain circumstances and expect we may be required to further reduce our pricing in the future. Further, an increase in our rates or a reduction in our rates without a proportionate decrease in our associated costs of could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Business Recent global economic trends could adversely affect our business and financial results. As widely reported, the recent disruption in the global financial markets, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, have significantly adversely impacted global economic conditions. These difficult economic conditions could adversely affect our business and results of operations, primarily though our access to credit and the toll these conditions may take on our customers. These conditions have resulted in a substantial tightening of the credit markets, including lending by financial institutions, which is our source for borrowing and liquidity, and have increased the cost of capital and reduced the availability of credit. We cannot offer any assurance that the financial institutions syndicated under our credit facility will be able to fulfill their commitments, in the future, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, these weakening economic and credit conditions and outlook may adversely affect our customers’ level of spending, ability to obtain financing for purchases and ability to make timely payments to us for our services, which could require us to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts, negatively impact our days sales outstanding and adversely affect our results of operations. These conditions may also force some of our customers, such as customers in the financial services or other industries, to announce layoffs, consolidate or declare bankruptcy, which could decrease the market for our services. Our future success depends on market acceptance of our new services. Market acceptance of our new services often requires that individuals and enterprises accept new ways of communicating and exchanging information. Our growth depends on the successful development and introduction of new services and enhancements to our existing services. For example, in 2008, we extended open interfaces for our on-demand communication platform and created an online developer community to support the development of new applications by third parties, independent developers and customers. In addition, we recently announced our intention to launch a virtual meeting platform this year. A failure to achieve broad market acceptance of or a decline in the demand for our new services or web site could hinder our ability to maintain and increase our revenues. We believe that broad market acceptance of our new services and web site will depend on several factors, including: ease of use; price; reliability; accessibility to our services; quality of service; system security; product functionality; and the effectiveness of our strategic marketing and sales efforts and distribution relationships. If we do not meet these challenges, our new services may not achieve broad market acceptance or market acceptance may not occur quickly enough to justify our investment in these services. 12 If we cannot successfully integrate new technologies, services and systems, we may not generate sufficient revenues and operational synergies may not develop. We continuously integrate new technologies, service offerings and systems. We have experienced and may continue to experience difficulty integrating new technologies into our networks. For example, in 2008, we enhanced some of our least cost routing processes in order to reduce delivery costs. These enhancements, however, could result in outages, which may impact our revenues and customer retention, and we may not be able to realize the cost savings associated with these enhancements. If we cannot successfully integrate new technologies, services and systems, we may not generate sufficient revenues and operational synergies may not develop. Concerns regarding security of transactions and transmitting confidential information over the Internet and public networks may have an adverse impact on the use of our web-enabled services. We must securely receive and transmit confidential information for our customers over the Internet and public networks. Concerns regarding the security of confidential information transmitted over the Internet and public networks may prevent customers from using our web-based services. Despite the measures we have taken, our infrastructure is potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, viruses or similar problems. If someone is able to circumvent our security measures, they could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruption in our operations. Security breaches that result in access to confidential information could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or liability. We may be required to make additional significant investments in efforts to protect against and remedy these types of security breaches. As electronic commerce becomes more widespread, our customers will become more concerned about security. In addition, some of our customers are subject to varying degrees of government regulation, particularly in the insurance and financial services industries. Increased interest in data privacy protections and information security obligations could impose additional regulatory pressures on our customers’ businesses, and indirectly, on our operations. If we are unable to adequately address these concerns, our business and results of operations could suffer. Technological obsolescence of our equipment could result in substantial capital expenditures. Technological advances may result in the development of new equipment and changing industry standards, which could cause our equipment to become obsolete. These events could require us to invest significant capital in upgrading or replacing our equipment. For example, we are continuing our efforts to introduce IP-based equipment into our services and may need to increase our number of IP-based ports and discontinue use of some of our traditional telecommunications-based ports if adoption of VoIP is more rapid than expected. If we fail to increase our network capacity to meet customer demands, the quality of our service offerings may suffer. As network usage grows, we will need to add capacity to our hardware, software and facilities with telecommunications equipment that routes telephone calls. We continuously attempt to predict growth in our network usage and add capacity accordingly. If we do not accurately predict and efficiently manage growth in our network usage, the quality of our service offerings may suffer and we may lose customers. For example, during 2008, we experienced challenges associated with international access points relating to our GlobalMeet® service, particularly given a longer lead time in procuring numbers from international carriers. In addition, we are continuing to upgrade our network infrastructure to handle the new data volumes associated with this VoIP-based traffic. Downtime in our network infrastructure could result in the loss of significant customers and revenues. We currently maintain facilities with telecommunications equipment that routes telephone calls and computer telephony equipment in locations throughout the world. The delivery of our services is dependent, in part, upon our ability to protect the equipment and data at our facilities against damage that may be caused by fire, power loss, technical failures, unauthorized intrusion, natural disasters, sabotage and other similar events. Despite taking a variety of precautions, we have experienced downtime in our networks from time to time due to service or network outages and periodic system upgrades, and we may experience downtime in the future. For example, in 2008, we continued to migrate to third party co-location facilities in order to better service our expanding infrastructure 13 demands. As a result, we may experience configuration demands with these co-location facilities that could impact our service quality. We believe that we take substantial precautions to protect ourselves and our customers from events that could interrupt delivery of our services. These precautions include physical security systems, uninterruptible power supplies, on-site power generators, upgraded back-up hardware, fire protection systems and other contingency plans. In addition, some of our networks are designed so that the data on each network server is duplicated on a separate network server. Despite these precautions, however, service interruptions could result in the loss of significant customers, which could cause us to lose revenues. We also maintain business interruption insurance providing for aggregate coverage of approximately $84.0 million per policy year. We may not be able to maintain insurance for this risk in the future, or it may not continue to be available at reasonable prices. Even if we maintain insurance for this risk, it may not be sufficient to compensate us for losses that we experience due to our inability to provide services to our customers. Interruption in third party services that we use could result in service delays and disruptions and a loss of significant customers and revenues. Our ability to maintain and expand our business depends, in part, on our ability to continue to obtain telecommunications, financial systems hosting services and web-based services on favorable terms from traditional and IP-based long distance telecommunications service providers, local exchange carriers, financial systems hosting providers and Internet service providers. We do not own a telecommunications or IP-based network and host a significant portion of our financial systems. As a result, we depend on a variety of third party providers for traditional and IP-based telecommunications services, web conferencing services, call origination and termination local transmission, Internet access and financial systems. We have experienced delays and disruptions in our services in the past due to service interruptions from telecommunications service providers. For example, we have experienced interruptions in service as a result of our underlying carriers’ network outages and as a result of increased traffic volumes. In addition, the insolvency of any of these service providers could temporarily interrupt our ability to bill our customers, make payments to our vendors and delay our ability to report our financial results. Any interruptions in the delivery of our services due to third party outages could result in a loss of significant customers and revenues. Continued weakness in our legacy broadcast fax services may negatively impact our financial performance. We have experienced declines in revenue from our legacy broadcast fax services and expect continued declines in the future. Our future success is dependent in part upon our ability to transition our broadcast fax customers to our newer technologies, such as e-mail and voice delivery services. For example, in order to generate more predictable broadcast fax revenue, we are continuing our efforts to transition these customers into minimum commitment contracts or subscription-based service plans. While the rate of decline in revenue from these services has slowed in recent quarters, we continue to expect continued legacy broadcast fax services revenue declines in the future. Our inability to efficiently utilize or re-negotiate minimum purchase requirements in our telecommunications supply agreements or to avoid or recover telecommunications cost increases could decrease our profitability. Our ability to maintain and expand our business depends, in part, on our ability to continue to obtain and/or purchase telecommunications services on favorable terms from telecommunications service providers. During 2008, we successfully re-negotiated many of our purchase contracts. The total amount of our minimum purchase requirements in 2008 was approximately $18.7 million, and we incurred telecommunications costs in excess of these minimums. Agreements with some of our telecommunications service providers contain minimum purchase requirements through 2011. These commitments total approximately $62.4 million, with annual costs of approximately $37.8 million, $21.0 million and $3.6 million in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. In addition, certain circuits that we purchase are subject to term requirements, including penalties for early termination of such circuits. Other telecommunications suppliers may provide similar services at lower prices, and we may not be able to re-negotiate our current supply agreements to achieve comparable lower rates. In addition, our telecommunications service providers may be subject to federal, state, local and international laws regulating the provision of their telecommunications services. Such telecommunications laws and regulations could change in a manner requiring our providers to incur additional costs that may be passed on to us as their customer and thereby increase our costs in purchasing such telecommunications services. Such additional costs may require us to increase 14 the prices for our services to our customers. We can give no assurance that we will be able to utilize the minimum amount of services that we are required to purchase under our telecommunications supply agreements. Moreover, if we are unable to obtain and/or purchase telecommunications services on favorable terms, if we are required to purchase more services than we are able to utilize in the operation of our business or if we are not able to recover all or part of any increased costs resulting from such regulatory changes, the costs of providing our services would likely increase, which could decrease our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our level of indebtedness may harm our financial condition and results of operations. We have incurred indebtedness under our credit facility. As of December 31, 2008, we have utilized approximately $267.4 million of our credit facility, with approximately $266.2 million in borrowings and $1.2 million in letters of credit outstanding. In December 2007, we increased our credit facility capacity to $325.0 million, and, in January 2008, we further increased it to $375.0 million, all under an accordion feature. From time to time, we enter into interest rate swaps to reduce our exposure to market risk from changes in interest rates on interest payments associated with our credit facility. As of December 31, 2008, we had two $100.0 million interest rate swaps, one of which is for a two-year period beginning in August 2007 at a fixed rate of approximately 4.99% and one of which is for a three-year period beginning in August 2007 with a fixed rate of approximately 4.75% . Our level of indebtedness will have several important effects on our future operations, including, without limitation: a portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to the payment of any interest or amortization required with respect to outstanding indebtedness; increases in our outstanding indebtedness and leverage will increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; depending on the levels of our outstanding debt, our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures, general corporate and other purposes may be limited; and recent credit market events and the subsequent tightening of the availability of capital both from financial institutions and the debt markets may have an adverse affect on our ability to access additional capital. At the maturity of our credit facility in April 2011 or in the event of an acceleration of the indebtedness under the credit facility following an event of default, the entire outstanding principal amount of the indebtedness under the facility, together with all other amounts payable thereunder from time to time, will become due and payable. It is possible that we may not have sufficient funds to pay such obligations in full at maturity or upon such acceleration. Given the current uncertainty in the credit and financial markets, we may not be able to extend the tenure of our existing credit facility when it matures or enter into a new credit facility on substantially similar terms or otherwise on terms acceptable to us, which may affect our future results of operations. If we default and are not able to pay any such obligations due, our lenders have liens on substantially all of our assets and could foreclose on our assets in order to satisfy our obligations. Our dependence on our subsidiaries for cash flow may negatively affect our business and our ability to meet our debt service obligations. We conduct substantially all of our business through our subsidiaries. Our ability to pay amounts due under our indebtedness in the future will be dependent upon the ability of our subsidiaries to make cash distributions of earnings, loans or other payments to us based on their earnings and cash flows. Our subsidiaries may not have sufficient funds or may not be able to distribute sufficient funds to us to enable us to service or repay such indebtedness. 15 Our financial performance could cause future write-downs of goodwill or other intangible assets in future periods. We adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 142, “Accounting for Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” or SFAS No. 142, effective January 1, 2002. With the adoption of SFAS No. 142, we ceased amortizing approximately $123.1 million of goodwill. In lieu of amortization, we are required to perform an annual impairment review, which could result in impairment write-downs to goodwill and/or other intangible assets. As of December 31, 2008, we had $344.0 million of goodwill and $32.1 million of other intangible assets reflected on our financial statements for which amortization will continue. During 2008, we determined that intangible assets with a net book value of approximately $1.9 million were impaired. We wrote off the related assets and recorded the net book value as asset impairment during the year ended December 31, 2008. We may be subject to assessment of income, state sales and other taxes for which we have not accrued. We have reserves for certain state sales and excise tax contingencies based on the likelihood of obligation in accordance with SFAS No. 5, “Accounting for Contingencies,” or SFAS No. 5. Historically, we have collected and remitted state sales tax from our non-PGiMeet customers in applicable states, but have not collected and remitted state sales tax from our PGiMeet customers in all applicable jurisdictions. In addition, we have learned that certain of our PGiMeet solutions may be subject to telecommunications excise tax statutes in certain states. During the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we paid $2.8 million and $0.6 million related to the settlement of certain of these state sales and excise tax contingencies. At December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, we had reserved approximately $4.6 million and $5.2 million, respectively, for certain state sales and excise tax contingencies. These amounts are included in “Accrued taxes, other than income taxes” in our consolidated balance sheets. We believe we have appropriately accrued for these contingencies. In the event that actual results differ from these reserves, we may need to make adjustments, which could materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, states may disagree with our method of assessing and remitting such taxes or additional states may subject us to inquiries regarding such taxes. If our quarterly results do not meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price may decrease. Our quarterly revenues are difficult to forecast because the market for our services is rapidly evolving and our services are primarily usage-based and event-driven historically without subscription fees or minimum commitments. Our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations as to future revenues. If our revenue levels are below expectations, we may be unable or unwilling to reduce expenses proportionately, and our operating results would likely be adversely affected. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. It is possible that our operating results may fail to meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors in a future quarter, which will likely cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our operating results have varied significantly in the past and may vary significantly in the future. Specific factors that may cause our future operating results to vary include: fluctuations in operating expenses; increased competition and pricing pressure; the reliability and performance of our services; the timing of new service announcements; market acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our services; 16 changes in regulations and legislation that may affect the competitive environment for our services; and general economic and seasonal factors. Our stock has been volatile and we expect that it will continue to be volatile. Our stock price has been volatile, and we expect it will continue to be volatile. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2008, the closing price of our common stock ranged from a high of $16.90 to a low of $5.18. The volatility of our stock price can be due to factors such as: fluctuating operating results; announcements by us or our competitors of significant technological innovations, contracts, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures or capital commitments; and changes in security analysts’ estimates of our performance or our failure to meet analysts’ expectations. Many of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, broad market and industry factors may negatively impact our stock price, regardless of our operating performance. The performance of our business depends on attracting and retaining qualified key personnel. Our performance depends on attracting and retaining key personnel, including executive, sales and marketing personnel and customer support, product development and other technical personnel. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the performance of our business and the results of our operations. Our articles and bylaws and Georgia corporate law may inhibit a takeover which may be in the best interests of our shareholders. There are several provisions in our articles and bylaws and under Georgia corporate law that may inhibit a takeover, even when a takeover may be in the interests of our shareholders. For example, our board of directors is empowered to issue preferred stock without shareholder action. The existence of this “blank-check” preferred stock could render more difficult or discourage an attempt to obtain control of us by means of a tender offer, merger, proxy contest or otherwise. We are also subject to provisions of the Georgia corporate law that relate to business combinations with interested shareholders, which can serve to inhibit a takeover. In addition to considering the effects of any action on us and our shareholders, our articles permit our board to consider the interests of various constituencies, including employees, customers, suppliers, creditors, communities in which we maintain offices or operations and other factors which they deem pertinent, in carrying out and discharging their duties and responsibilities and in determining what the board believes to be in our best interests. Risks Related to Acquisitions We face risks in connection with completed or potential acquisitions. Our growth has been enhanced through acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies that we believe will complement our business. We regularly evaluate acquisition opportunities, frequently engage in acquisition discussions, conduct due diligence activities in connection with possible acquisitions and, if appropriate, engage in acquisition negotiations. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions, integrate acquired operations into our existing operations or expand into new markets. In addition, we compete for acquisitions and expansion opportunities with companies that have substantially greater 17 resources, and competition with these companies for acquisition targets could result in increased prices for possible targets. Acquisitions also involve numerous additional risks to us and our investors, including: risk in retaining key acquired management, employees and acquired customers; difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, services and personnel of the acquired assets or company; outages of operations infrastructure of acquired businesses prior to transition to our infrastructure; diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns; assumption of known and unknown or contingent liabilities; adverse financial impact from the amortization of expenses related to intangible assets; incurrence of indebtedness; potential adverse financial impact from failure of acquisitions to meet internal revenue and earnings expectations; entry into markets in which we have little or no direct prior experience; and potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. If we fail to adequately manage these acquisition risks, the acquisitions may not result in revenue growth, operational synergies or service or technology enhancements, which could adversely affect our financial results. For example, we have completed the integrations of 10 acquired companies since January 1, 2006 and, in certain instances, we experienced delays in obtaining cost savings and increases in past due receivables due to delays in integrations and technology enhancements required of our infrastructure. Acquisitions yet to be fully integrated in accordance with our plans are Soundpath Conferencing Services, LLC, EC Teleconferencing Pty Ltd., or ECT, eNunciate Corporation, Budget Conferencing Inc. and Meet24 due to the complexities related to technology integration, including any necessary development. Risks Related to Intellectual Property We may not be able to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights, which could result in the loss of our rights or increased costs. We rely primarily on a combination of intellectual property laws and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights and technology, brands and marks. These laws and contractual provisions provide only limited protection of our proprietary rights and technology. If we are not able to protect our intellectual property and our proprietary rights and technology, we could lose those rights and incur substantial costs policing and defending those rights. Our means of protecting our intellectual property, proprietary rights and technology may not be adequate, and our competitors may independently develop similar or competitive technologies. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the United States. If claims alleging patent, copyright or trademark infringement are brought against us and successfully prosecuted against us, they could result in substantial costs. Many patents, copyrights and trademarks have been issued in the general areas of information services, telecommunications, computer telephony and the Internet. From time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we have received and expect to continue to receive notices, or be subject to third party claims or proceedings, alleging that our current or future products or services infringe the patent, copyright or trademark rights 18 or other intellectual property rights of third parties. For example, in June 2008, we settled a lawsuit filed by Ronald A. Katz Technology Licensing, L.P. against three conferencing service providers, including us, alleging patent infringement relating to our automated conferencing services and paid Katz for a non-exclusive, fully paid license and release pursuant to this settlement. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we are unable to predict the outcome of any infringement proceedings or claims, and an adverse outcome could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We ultimately may not prevail on any such claims and any claiming parties may have significantly greater resources than we have to pursue litigation of these types of claims. Any infringement claim, whether with or without merit, could: be time consuming and a diversion to management; result in costly litigation; cause delays in introducing new services or enhancements; and result in costly royalty or licensing agreements. If a successful claim is made against us and we fail to develop non-infringing technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Government Regulation Regulatory and legislative changes may discourage certain customers from using some of our services and could adversely impact our results of operations. Regulatory and legislative changes have imposed additional restrictions that may impact our business. Such changes include the passage of federal legislation and rules and regulations relating to unsolicited fax advertising, telemarketing and unsolicited commercial e-mail. The TCPA and associated rules promulgated by the FCC prohibit the sending of unsolicited fax advertisements and proscribe certain telemarketing practices. Other federal laws implemented by the FTC also substantially regulate telemarketing, including the establishment of a nationwide “do not call” registry for residential and wireless telephone numbers. The Can Spam law places certain requirements on senders of commercial e-mail, including requiring senders to honor opt-out requests and banning false and deceptive headers and subject lines. In addition to federal laws and regulations, numerous state laws and regulations govern such activities. For instance, certain states regulate or restrict pre-recorded telemarketing and other messages, and certain states may restrict or make political calls subject to “do not call” and other requirements, although such calls are exempt from the federal “do not call” requirements. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations could have an adverse impact on the volume of fax, voice and e-mail messages sent utilizing our platforms. For example, although Congress amended the TCPA by passing the JFPA to expressly permit the faxing of advertisements to entities and persons that have an EBR with a sender, provided certain conditions are met, Congress also imposed notice language for fax advertisements and mandated an opt-out mechanism. Despite the passage of the JFPA, notice requirements and any future time limits on the EBR exemption may discourage use by some of our broadcast fax customers and could adversely impact our revenues. In addition, the FTC recently issued new rules that further restrict pre-recorded telemarketing calls. Effective September 1, 2009, these new FTC rules prohibit pre-recorded telemarketing calls except in instances of prior written express consent. The rules also imposed certain other requirements, as of December 1, 2008, for permitted pre-recorded telemarketing calls, including providing an interactive or keypress opt-out mechanism for recipients to select to be added to an entity-specific “do not call” list. These new FTC rules could impact customer use of our broadcast voice services to the extent a customer sought to use these services for marketing messages, distinct from informational, transactional or other messages exempt under the FTC’s rules. Although we believe we comply with laws and regulations applicable to us, we could nevertheless be subject to litigation, fines, losses or other penalties under such laws and regulations. 19 If our services are subject to further government regulations applicable to traditional telecommunications service providers our ability to deliver our services and adversely impact our results of operations could be impaired. Our business is affected by regulatory decisions, trends and policies made by international, federal and state telecommunications regulatory agencies, including the FCC and state public service or utility commissions, as well as state taxing authorities. We do not believe that our enhanced information services are subject to the same regulations as those applicable to traditional telecommunications service providers in the United States. However, it is possible that regulatory authorities may take a different position and may seek to require us to submit to traditional telecommunications carrier regulation under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, and various state laws as a provider of telecommunications services. For example, on June 30, 2008, the FCC issued an order ruling that audio conferencing providers are providers of “telecommunications” who must contribute to the federal USF on a prospective basis. In accordance with the FCC’s public notice dated July 17, 2008, we filed a Form 499-Q on August 1, 2008 reporting estimated revenues for the fourth quarter of 2008, and we began assessing our applicable Conferencing Solutions customers and contributing to the USF in October 2008. The extent to which our services are viewed as the provision of telecommunications rather than as an offering of enhanced, information services will affect our USF contribution payments, as well as the federal regulations with which we must comply. It is possible that state regulatory authorities may also seek to require us to submit to traditional telecommunications carrier regulation under various state laws as a provider of “telecommunications,” and that state taxing authorities may similarly attempt to subject our PGiMeet solutions to their telecommunications excise tax statutes. For example, we accrued approximately $4.0 million in the second quarter of 2008 in connection with one such state’s telecommunications excise tax statutes. It is too early to predict how regulatory requirements may affect customer demand for our PGiMeet solutions or our existing or future competitors, as well as whether regulatory or taxing authorities will impose additional requirements, regulations, charges or taxes on the provision of certain of our services. Although we use reasonable efforts to monitor applicable regulatory requirements, if we fail to comply with any applicable government regulations, or if we were required to submit to the jurisdiction of state government authorities as providers of traditional telecommunications services, we could become subject to additional reporting and compliance obligations and/or could be subject to litigation, fines, forfeitures, taxes, regulatory surcharge remittance requirements or other penalties arising from any noncompliance. Subjecting our services to these regulations would increase our operating costs and could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to International Operations and Expansion There are risks inherent in international operations that could hinder our international growth strategy. Our ability to achieve future success will depend in part on the expansion of our international operations. For example, we recently opened a branch office in India. Conducting our business internationally presents numerous inherent difficulties and risks that could prevent us from selling our services in other countries or hinder our expansion once we have established international operations, including, among other things, the following: burdensome regulatory requirements and unexpected changes in these requirements; export restrictions and controls relating to technology; data privacy laws that may apply to the transmission of our customers’ data to the United States; tariffs and other trade barriers; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations including utilizing foreign telecommunication providers; localization of our services, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses; 20 accounting (including managing internal control over financial reporting in our non-U.S. subsidiaries), tax and legal complexities arising from international operations; longer accounts receivable payment cycles and collection difficulties; political and economic instability; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; potential difficulties in transferring funds generated overseas to the U.S. in a tax efficient manner; seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe and other parts of the world; and potentially adverse tax consequences. We have experienced, and will likely continue to experience, losses from fluctuations in currency exchange rates. A risk inherent in our international operations is the exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We conduct business in 24 countries with approximately 40% of our consolidated net revenues and 35% of our operating expenses derived from foreign currencies. As a result, we may experience material losses in revenues and earnings from fluctuations in foreign currencies. For example, current global economic conditions have caused extreme and unprecedented volatility in foreign currency exchange rates, which we estimate negatively impacted our consolidated revenues by approximately $5.7 million in the quarter ended December 31, 2008 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2007. We anticipate that such fluctuations will continue to negatively impact our financial results. We cannot predict when this volatility will cease or the extent of its impact on our future financial results. We typically denominate foreign transactions in foreign currencies and have not engaged in hedging transactions, although we may engage in hedging transactions from time to time in the future relating to foreign currency exchange rates. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 