Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Industry The markets for our services are intensely competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully against existing and future competitors that may make it difficult to maintain or increase our market share and revenues. The markets for our services are intensely competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future. For information regarding the markets in which we compete, see the section entitled “Business – Competition.” Many of our current and potential competitors, such as major telecommunications service providers, have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, more robust service offerings, more comprehensive support organizations, larger customer bases and substantially greater financial, personnel, marketing, engineering, technical and other resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer demands. They may also be able to devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services. We believe that our current competitors are likely to expand their service offerings and new competitors are likely to enter our markets. Some of our existing and potential competitors may enter into or expand their positions in the markets in which we compete through acquisitions, strategic alliances and the development of integrated service offerings. For example, West Corporation has acquired Raindance Communications, Inc., InterCall, Inc., ConferenceCall.com, ECI Conference Call Services LLC and Sprint’s conferencing division. Microsoft Corp. acquired PlaceWare, Inc. and integrated PlaceWare’s services into its suite of Office series of applications. Also, we compete with companies with whom we have distribution relationships or with whom we resell certain of their services. Increased competition could result in price pressure on our products and services and a decrease in our market share in the various markets in which we compete, either of which could hinder our ability to grow our revenues. Technological changes and the development of alternatives to our services may cause us to lose customers and market share and may hinder our ability to maintain or grow our revenues. The market for our services is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new service introductions and evolving industry standards. We expect new services and enhancements to existing services to be developed and introduced that will compete with our services. Technological advances may result in the development and commercial availability of alternatives to or new methods of delivering our services and pricing options that could be more attractive to our customers. These developments could cause our existing services to become obsolete, result in significant pricing pressure on our services or allow our existing and potential customers to meet their own business communications needs without using our services. For example, if customers more rapidly adopt IP-based conferencing services or IP-based PBX systems, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Because we do not typically have long-term or exclusive contractual agreements with our customers, and many of our larger enterprise customers allocate their business among several providers, any of these developments could result in significant customer loss. We must continually introduce new services and enhancements to existing services in response to technological changes, evolving industry standards and customer demands. However, our new services and enhancements may not be as successful as our competitors’ solutions. We will not be able to gain market share and increase our revenues if we are unable to develop new services, or if we experience delays in the introduction of new services. Our ability to successfully develop and market new services and enhancements that respond to technological changes, evolving industry standards or customer demands, is dependent on our ability to: • foresee changes in industry standards; • anticipate and apply advances in technologies; • enhance our software, applications, equipment, systems and networks; and • attract and retain qualified and creative technical personnel. 13 We are subject to pricing pressures for our services which could cause us to lose market share and decrease revenues and profitability. We compete for customers based on several factors, including price. A decrease in the rates charged for services by our competitors could cause us to reduce the rates we charge for our services. If we cannot compete based on price, we may lose market share. If we reduce our rates without increasing our volume or our market share, our revenues could decrease. For example, in 2006 and 2005, increased competition and decreased demand for our legacy broadcast fax services resulted in a decrease in revenue from these services. We expect revenue from broadcast fax services to continue to decline in the future. We have also experienced declines in the average selling price per minute of services across our solution sets, including within our Conferencing Solutions. In some cases, our competitors may offer their services at reduced rates for free on a trial basis in order to win customers. In addition, telecommunications service providers have lower telephony costs as a result of their ownership of the underlying telecommunications network and can offer services similar to ours at reduced rates as a result. Due to competitive factors and the rapidly changing marketplace for our services, we have reduced our pricing in certain circumstances and expect we may be required to further reduce our pricing in the future. Further, if we reduce our rates and our costs of providing our services do not decrease proportionately, or if they increase, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Business Our future success depends on market acceptance of our new services. Market acceptance of our new services often requires that individuals and enterprises accept new ways of communicating and exchanging information. Our growth depends on the successful development and introduction of new services and enhancements to our existing services. For example, in 2006, we introduced our PremiereAnywhere mobile solutions and our Irgent service for Notifications & Reminders. In addition, we intend to launch our new portal, PGiConnect.com, in the second quarter of 2007 which we believe will open a new sales channel for us and will assist in our objective to improve our revenue growth. A failure to achieve broad market acceptance of or a decline in the demand for our new services or portal could hinder our ability to maintain and increase our revenues. We believe that broad market acceptance of our new services and portal will depend on several factors, including: • ease of use; • price; • reliability; • accessibility to our services; • quality of service; • system security; • product functionality; and • the effectiveness of our strategic marketing and sales efforts and distribution relationships. If we do not meet these challenges, our new services may not achieve broad market acceptance or market acceptance may not occur quickly enough to justify our investment in these services. 14 If we cannot successfully integrate new technologies, services and systems, we may not generate sufficient revenues and operational synergies may not develop. We continuously integrate new technologies, service offerings and systems. We have experienced and may continue to experience difficulty integrating new technologies into our networks. For example, we experienced delays in our testing of our SIP-based voice/fax boards that we intended to launch in the first quarter of 2006 which was delayed until the second quarter. These delays resulted from the board manufacturers inability to support this service in the time periods we initially anticipated. If we cannot successfully integrate new technologies, services and systems, we may not generate sufficient revenues and operational synergies may not develop. Concerns regarding security of transactions and transmitting confidential information over the Internet and public networks may have an adverse impact on the use of our Web-enabled services. We must securely receive and transmit confidential information for our customers over the Internet and public networks. Concerns regarding the security of confidential information transmitted over the Internet and public networks may prevent customers from using our Web-based services. Despite the measures we have taken, our infrastructure is potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, viruses or similar problems. If a person circumvents our security measures, he or she could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruption in our operations. Security breaches that result in access to confidential information could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or liability. We may be required to make significant investments in efforts to protect against and remedy these types of security breaches. As electronic commerce becomes more widespread, our customers will become more concerned about security. In addition, some of our customers are subject to varying degrees of government regulation, particularly in the insurance and financial services industries. Increased interest in data privacy protections and information security obligations could impose additional regulatory pressures on our customers’ businesses and indirectly, on our operations. If we are unable to adequately address these concerns, our business and results of operations could suffer. Technological obsolescence of our equipment could result in substantial capital expenditures. Technological advances may result in the development of new equipment and changing industry standards, which could cause our equipment to become obsolete. These events could require us to invest significant capital in upgrading or replacing our equipment. For example, we are currently in the process of introducing IP-based equipment into our services and may need to increase our number of IP-based ports and discontinue use of some of our traditional telecommunications-based ports if adoption of VoIP is more rapid than expected. If we fail to increase our network capacity to meet customer demands, the quality of our service offerings may suffer. As network usage grows, we will need to add capacity to our hardware, software and facilities with telecommunications equipment that route telephone calls. We continuously attempt to predict growth in our network usage and add capacity accordingly. If we do not accurately predict and efficiently manage growth in our network usage, the quality of our service offerings may suffer and we may lose customers. For example, as our VoIP usage continues to increase, we are upgrading our network infrastructure to handle the new data volumes associated with this VoIP-based traffic. Downtime in our network infrastructure could result in the loss of significant customers and revenues. We currently maintain facilities with telecommunications equipment that routes telephone calls and computer telephony equipment in locations throughout the world. The delivery of our services is dependent, in part, upon our ability to protect the equipment and data at our facilities against damage that may be caused by fire, power loss, technical failures, unauthorized intrusion, natural disasters, sabotage and other similar events. Despite taking a variety of precautions, we have experienced downtime in our networks from time to time due to service or network outages and periodic system upgrades, and we may experience downtime in the future. For example, in 2006, we experienced downtime as a result of one of our SIP-based carriers’ upgrade to its switches. We have implemented changes to prevent this in the future, and we take substantial precautions to protect ourselves and our customers from events that could interrupt delivery of our services. These precautions include physical security systems, 15 uninterruptible power supplies, on-site power generators, upgraded back-up hardware, fire protection systems and other contingency plans. In addition, some of our networks are designed so that the data on each network server is duplicated on a separate network server. However, despite these precautions, service interruptions could result in the loss of significant customers, which could cause us to lose revenues. We also maintain business interruption insurance providing for aggregate coverage of approximately $78.6 million per policy year. However, we may not be able to maintain insurance for this risk in the future, or it may not continue to be available at reasonable prices. Even if we maintain insurance for this risk, it may not be sufficient to compensate us for losses that we experience due to our inability to provide services to our customers. Interruption in third party services that we use could result in service delays and disruptions and a loss of significant customers and revenues. Our ability to maintain and expand our business depends, in part, on our ability to continue to obtain telecommunications, financial systems hosting services and Web-based services on favorable terms from traditional and IP-based long distance telecommunications service providers, local exchange carriers, financial systems hosting providers and Internet service providers. We do not own a telecommunications or IP-based network and host a significant portion of our financial systems. As a result, we depend on a variety of third party providers for traditional and IP-based telecommunications services, Web conferencing services, call origination and termination local transmission, Internet access and financial systems. We have experienced delays and disruptions in our services in the past due to service interruptions from telecommunications service providers. For example, we have experienced interruptions in service as a result of our underlying carriers’ network outages and as a result of increased traffic volumes. In addition, we depend on these service providers to be financially solvent. If these service providers were to become insolvent, it could temporarily interrupt our ability to bill our customers, make payments to our vendors and delay our ability to report our financial results. Any interruptions in the delivery of our services could result in a loss of significant customers and revenues. Continued weakness in our legacy broadcast fax services may negatively impact our financial performance. We have experienced an acceleration in the decline of revenue from our legacy broadcast fax services and expect continued declines in the future. Our future success is dependent in part upon our ability to transition our broadcast fax customers to our newer technologies, such as e-mail and voice delivery services. For example, in order to generate more predictable broadcast fax revenue, we are continuing our efforts to transition these customers into minimum commitment contracts or flat-rate service plans and to migrate these customers to our newer technologies by extending pricing incentives to these customers in attempts to accelerate adoption of these plans. We cannot guarantee that our efforts will be successful, and these actions are expected to reduce near-term revenues and earnings because the price for our newer technologies is substantially below that of our broadcast fax services. Our inability to efficiently utilize or re-negotiate minimum purchase requirements in our telecommunications supply agreements could decrease our profitability. Our ability to maintain and expand our business depends, in part, on our ability to continue to obtain telecommunications services on favorable terms from telecommunications service providers. Agreements with some of our telecommunications service providers contain minimum purchase requirements through 2009. These commitments total approximately $20.6 million, with annual costs of approximately $14.2 million, $5.8 million and $0.6 million in 2007 through 2009, respectively. In addition, certain circuits that we purchase are subject to term requirements, including penalties for early termination of such circuits. The total amount of the minimum purchase requirements in 2006 was approximately $18.5 million, and we incurred telecommunications costs in excess of these minimums. It is possible that other telecommunications suppliers may provide similar services at lower prices, and we may not be able to re-negotiate our current supply agreements to achieve comparable lower rates. Further, we can give no assurance that we will be able to utilize the minimum amount of services that we are required to purchase under these agreements. If we are unable to obtain telecommunications services on favorable terms, or if we are required to purchase more services than we are able to utilize in the operation of our business, the costs of providing our services would likely increase, which could decrease our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Our level of indebtedness may harm our financial condition and results of operations. We have incurred a substantial amount of indebtedness under our credit facility. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $135.9 million of outstanding debt under our credit facility, with approximately $134.5 million in borrowings and $1.4 million in letters of credit outstanding. In April 2006, we increased our line of credit from $180.0 million to $300 million. In February 2006, we entered into a three-year $50.0 million interest rate swap at a fixed rate of 4.99% plus applicable spread, and in August 2006, we entered into two separate three-year $12.5 million interest rate swaps at 5.135% and 5.159% respectively. These swaps are exclusive of our applicable margin as stated in our credit facility. Our level of indebtedness will have several important effects on our future operations, including, without limitation: • a portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to the payment of any interest or amortization required with respect to outstanding indebtedness; • increases in our outstanding indebtedness and leverage will increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; and • depending on the levels of our outstanding debt, our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures, general corporate and other purposes may be limited. At the maturity of our credit facility or in the event of an acceleration of the indebtedness under the credit facility following an event of default, the entire outstanding principal amount of the indebtedness under the facility, together with all other amounts payable thereunder from time to time, will become due and payable. However, it is possible that we may not have sufficient funds to pay such obligations in full at maturity or upon such acceleration. If we default and are not able to pay any such obligations due, our lenders have liens on substantially all of our assets and could foreclose on our assets in order to satisfy our obligations. Our dependence on our subsidiaries for cash flow may negatively affect our business and our ability to meet our debt service obligations. We conduct substantially all of our business through our subsidiaries. Our ability to pay amounts due under our indebtedness in the future will be dependent upon the ability of our subsidiaries to make cash distributions of earnings, loans or other payments to us based on their earnings and cash flows. The ability of our subsidiaries to make these distributions is and will continue to be restricted by, among other limitations, applicable provisions of governing law and contractual provisions. Our subsidiaries may not have sufficient funds or may not be able to distribute sufficient funds to us to enable us to service or repay such indebtedness. Our financial performance could cause future write-downs of goodwill or other intangible assets in future periods. We adopted SFAS No. 142, “Accounting for Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” effective January 1, 2002. With the adoption of SFAS No. 142, we ceased amortizing approximately $123.1 million of goodwill. In lieu of amortization, we were required to perform an initial impairment review of our goodwill in 2002 and are required to perform an annual impairment review thereafter. Subsequent reviews could result in impairment write-downs to goodwill and/or other intangible assets. As of December 31, 2006, we had $295.2 million of goodwill and $38.4 million of other intangible assets reflected on our financial statements for which amortization will continue. We may be subject to assessment of income, state sales and other taxes for which we have not accrued. We have reserves for certain state sales tax contingencies based on the likelihood of obligation in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 5, “Accounting for Contingencies” (SFAS No. 5). Historically, we have not collected and remitted state sales tax from Conferencing Solutions customers. We were recently audited by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts Department of Revenue claiming that our audio conferencing services are subject to sales tax in Massachusetts. In March 2006, we began assessing sales tax to our customers in Massachusetts as a result of this audit. In July 2006, we paid an initial payment of 17 approximately $1.2 million to the Commonwealth of Massachusetts Department of Revenue for taxable years prior to 2005. Amounts associated with 2005 and early 2006 are still under review and have yet to be settled. More states may claim that we are subject to an assessment of sales taxes. As of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, we had reserved approximately $4.3 million and $5.7 million, respectively, for certain state sales tax contingencies. This amount is included in “Accrued taxes” on the face of the consolidated balance sheet. We believe we are appropriately accrued for these contingencies. In the event that actual results differ from these reserves, we may need to make adjustments which could materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. Historically, we have collected and remitted sales tax from our non-Conferencing Solutions customers in applicable states. However, it is possible states may disagree with our method of assessing and remitting these state sales taxes. If our quarterly results do not meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price may decrease. Our quarterly revenues are difficult to forecast because the market for our services is rapidly evolving and our services are primarily usage-based and event-driven without monthly subscription fees and historically without minimum commitments. Our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations as to future revenues. If our revenue levels are below expectations, we may be unable or unwilling to reduce expenses proportionately, and our operating results would likely be adversely affected. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. It is likely that in some future quarter our operating results may fail to meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In this event, the market price of our common stock will likely decline. Our operating results have varied significantly in the past and may vary significantly in the future. Specific factors that may cause our future operating results to vary include: • fluctuations in operating expenses; • increased competition and pricing pressure; • the reliability and performance of our services; • the timing of new service announcements; • market acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our services; • changes in legislation and regulations that may affect the competitive environment for our services; and • general economic and seasonal factors. Our stock has been volatile and we expect that it will continue to be volatile. Our stock price has been volatile, and we expect it will continue to be volatile. The volatility of our stock price can be due to factors such as: • fluctuating operating results; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant technological innovations, contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; and • changes in security analysts’ estimates of our performance or our failure to meet analysts’ expectations. 18 Many of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, broad market and industry factors may negatively impact our stock price, regardless of our operating performance. The performance of our business depends on attracting and retaining qualified key personnel. Our performance depends on attracting and retaining key personnel, including executive, sales and marketing personnel and customer support, product development and other technical personnel. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the performance of our business and the results of our operations. Our articles and bylaws and Georgia corporate law may inhibit a takeover which may not be in the best interests of our shareholders. There are several provisions in our articles and bylaws and under Georgia corporate law that may inhibit a takeover, even when a takeover may be in the interests of our shareholders. For example, our board of directors is empowered to issue preferred stock without shareholder action. The existence of this “blank-check” preferred stock could render more difficult or discourage an attempt to obtain control of us by means of a tender offer, merger, proxy contest or otherwise. Our articles also divide our board into three classes, as nearly equal in size as possible, with staggered three-year terms. The classification of the board could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us because our shareholders elect only one-third of the members of the board each year. We are also subject to provisions of the Georgia corporate law that relate to business combinations with interested shareholders, which can serve to inhibit a takeover. In addition to considering the effects of any action on us and our shareholders, our articles permit our board to consider the interests of various constituencies, including employees, customers, suppliers and creditors, communities in which we maintain offices or operations and other factors which they deem pertinent, in carrying out and discharging their duties and responsibilities and in determining what is believed to be in our best interests. Risks Related to Acquisitions We face risks in connection with completed or potential acquisitions. Our growth has been enhanced through acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies that we believe will complement our business. We regularly evaluate acquisition opportunities, frequently engage in acquisition discussions, conduct due diligence activities in connection with possible acquisitions, and, where appropriate, engage in acquisition negotiations. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions, integrate acquired operations into our existing operations or expand into new markets. In addition, we compete for acquisitions and expansion opportunities with companies that have substantially greater resources, and competition with these companies for acquisition targets could result in increased prices for possible targets. Acquisitions also involve numerous additional risks to us and our investors, including: • risk in retaining acquired management and employees; • difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, services and personnel of the acquired company; • diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns; • assumption of known and unknown or contingent liabilities; • adverse financial impact from the amortization of expenses related to intangible assets; • entry into markets in which we have little or no direct prior experience; and • potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. 19 If we fail to adequately manage these acquisition risks, the acquisitions may not result in revenue growth, operational synergies or service or technology enhancements, which could adversely affect out financial results. For example, we have completed the integrations of 14 acquired companies since January 1, 2004 and in certain instances, we experienced increased costs and past due receivables due to delays in integrations and technology enhancements required of our infrastructure. The only acquisitions yet to be integrated are Enunciate Corporation and EC Teleconferencing Pty Limited (ECT) due to the complexities related to technology integration. Risks Related to Intellectual Property We may not be able to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights, which could result in the loss of our rights or increased costs. We rely primarily on a combination of intellectual property laws and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights and technology, brands and marks. These laws and contractual provisions provide only limited protection of our proprietary rights and technology. If we are not able to protect our intellectual property and our proprietary rights and technology, we could lose those rights and incur substantial costs policing and defending those rights. Our means of protecting our intellectual property, proprietary rights and technology may not be adequate, and our competitors may independently develop similar or competitive technologies. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the U.S. If claims alleging patent, copyright or trademark infringement are brought against us and successfully prosecuted against us, they could result in substantial costs. Many patents, copyrights and trademarks have been issued in the general areas of information services, telecommunications, computer telephony and the Internet. From time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we have received and expect to continue to receive notices, or be subject to third party claims or proceedings, alleging that our current or future products or services infringe the patent, copyright or trademark rights or other intellectual property rights of third parties. For example, on August 21, 2006, a lawsuit was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas by Ronald A. Katz Technology Licensing, L.P. against three conferencing service providers, including us, alleging patent infringement. The complaint seeks undisclosed monetary damages, together with pre- and post-judgment interest, treble damages for what is alleged to be willful infringement, attorneys’ fees and costs and injunctive relief. In addition, certain of our former Voicecom business segment customers have alleged that we are obligated to indemnify them against patent infringement claims made by Katz against such customers. We do not believe that we have an obligation to indemnify such customers. However, due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we are unable to predict the outcome of this matter, and an adverse outcome could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We ultimately may not prevail on any such claims and any claiming parties may have significantly greater resources than we have to pursue litigation of these types of claims. Any infringement claim, whether with or without merit, could: • be time consuming and a diversion to management; • result in costly litigation; • cause delays in introducing new services or enhancements; and • result in costly royalty or licensing agreements. If a successful claim is made against us and we fail to develop non-infringing technology, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be materially adversely affected. 20 Risks Related to Government Regulation Regulatory and legislative changes may discourage certain customers from using some of our services and could adversely impact our results of operations. Legislative and regulatory changes have imposed additional restrictions that may impact our business. Such changes include the passage of federal legislation to curb unsolicited commercial e-mail, also known as the Can Spam law, and additional restrictions on telemarketing and unsolicited fax advertising. These changes include the establishment of a nationwide “do not call” registry for residential and wireless telephone numbers. The Can Spam law places certain requirements on senders of commercial e-mail, including requiring senders to honor opt-out requests and banning false and deceptive headers and subject lines. The TCPA and associated rules promulgated by the FCC prohibit the sending of unsolicited fax advertisements and proscribe certain telemarketing practices. Other federal laws implemented by the FTC also substantially regulate telemarketing. In October 2006, the FTC proposed to bar prerecorded telemarketing calls except in instances of prior express consent. The FTC subsequently had a public comment period on its proposed restrictions on prerecorded telemarketing calls. In December 2006, the FCC issued a notice stating that it would not enforce the ban until he completion of the rulemaking proceeding provided prerecorded telemarketing calls comply with certain safe harbor requirements. If ultimately adopted, the FTC’s proposed restriction on prerecorded telemarketing calls could impact customer use of our broadcast voice services to the extent a customer sought to use these services for marketing messages, distinct from informational or transactional messages. In addition to federal laws and regulations, there are numerous state laws and regulations governing such activities. For instance, certain states regulate prerecorded telemarketing messages and pending legislation introduced in at least one state would make political calls subject to do not call requirements in that state although such calls are exempt from the federal do not call requirements. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations could have an adverse impact on the volume of fax, e-mail and voice messages sent utilizing our platforms. For example, although Congress amended the TCPA by passing the JFPA to expressly permit the faxing of advertisements to entities and persons that have an EBR with a sender provided certain conditions are met, Congress also imposed new notice language for fax advertisements and mandated an opt-out mechanism. In April 2006, the FCC issued rules to implement the JFPA that went into effect on August 1, 2006. The rules clarify the definition of EBR and also require that in addition to the EBR, the sender must have obtained the facsimile number at issue directly from the recipient, from a directory or Internet site voluntarily made available by a recipient or that the EBR pre-dated July 9, 2005. The FCC also clarified the requirements of the new opt-out notice. Among other requirements under the new rules, opt-out requests submitted by fax recipients must be implemented within 30 days. Despite the passage of the JFPA, new notice requirements and any future time limits on the EBR exemption may discourage use by some of our broadcast fax customers and could adversely impact our revenues. In addition, we could be subject to litigation concerning our compliance and our customers’ compliance with these laws and regulations, as well as governmental enforcement actions, regulatory fines and penalties. Government regulations in the U.S. and internationally and the legal uncertainties related to the Internet and electronic communications may adversely affect the demand for our services and place financial burdens on our business related to compliance. Our operations are, and may be, subject to laws and regulations in the U.S. and internationally regulating the unsolicited transmission of fax communications and e-mail and telemarketing laws and regulations. We monitor such laws and regulations, have compliance policies in place and our service agreements with customers state that customers are responsible for their compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. We could, nevertheless, be subject to litigation, fines, losses or other penalties under such laws and regulations. New laws and regulations directed specifically at electronic commerce and the Internet may be adopted at the international, federal and state levels. These laws and regulations may cover issues such as collection and use of data from Web sites, privacy, e-mail, network and information security, “spamming,” pricing, content, copyrights and other intellectual property, VoIP, changes in telecommunications regulations, online gambling and distribution and quality of goods and services. The enactment of any additional laws or regulations may impede the growth of our Web-enabled products and services and place additional financial burdens on our business in order to comply with new laws and regulations. 21 We may become subject to various government regulations applicable to traditional telecommunications service providers, which could impair our ability to deliver our services and adversely impact our results of operations. Our business is affected by regulatory decisions, trends and policies made by international, federal and state telecommunications regulatory agencies, including the FCC and state public service commissions. We do not believe that our enhanced information services are subject to the same regulations as those applicable to traditional telecommunications service providers in the U.S. However, it is possible that regulatory authorities may take a different position and may seek to require us to submit to traditional telecommunications carrier regulation under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, and various state laws as a provider of telecommunications services. We have received, and certain companies that we acquired had received, letters from the Investigations and Hearing Division of the FCC’s Enforcement Bureau regarding registration, filing and regulatory surcharge remittance requirements applicable to traditional telephone companies. In each case, we have responded to the FCC’s inquiries. We use reasonable efforts to ensure that our operations comply with applicable regulatory requirements. However, if we fail to comply with any applicable government regulations, or if we were required to submit to the jurisdiction of such government authorities as providers of traditional telecommunications services, we could be temporarily prohibited from providing portions of our services, could have to restructure portions of our services, could become subject to ongoing reporting and compliance obligations or could be subject to fines, forfeitures, regulatory surcharge remittance requirements (past and/or future) or other penalties for noncompliance. Subjecting our services to these regulations would increase our operating costs and could have a material adverse affect on our financial results. We may become subject to new laws and regulations involving services and transactions in the areas of electronic commerce, which could increase costs of compliance. In conducting our business, we are subject to various laws and regulations relating to commercial transactions generally, such as the Uniform Commercial Code, and we are also subject to the electronic funds transfer rules embodied in Regulation E promulgated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Congress has held hearings regarding, and various agencies are considering, whether to regulate providers of services and transactions in the electronic commerce market. It is possible that Congress, the states or various government agencies could impose new or additional requirements on the electronic commerce market or entities operating therein. If enacted, these laws, rules and regulations could be imposed on our business and industry and could result in substantial compliance costs. Risks Related to International Operations and Expansion There are risks inherent in international operations that could hinder our international growth strategy. Our ability to achieve future success will depend in part on the expansion of our international operations. There are difficulties and risks inherent in doing business on an international level that could prevent us from selling our services in other countries or hinder our expansion once we have established international operations, including, among other things, the following: • burdensome regulatory requirements and unexpected changes in these requirements; • export restrictions and controls relating to technology; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • accounting (including managing internal control over financial reporting in our non-U.S. subsidiaries), tax and legal complexities arising from international operations; • longer payment cycles; 22 • problems in collecting accounts receivable; • political and economic instability; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe and other parts of the world; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. We could experience losses from fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We conduct business in 19 countries with approximately 34.6% of our operating expenses and approximately 37.8% of our consolidated revenues derived in foreign currencies. Accordingly, we could experience material losses in revenues and earnings due to fluctuations in foreign currencies. We have not experienced any material losses in earnings from fluctuations in currency exchange rates, but we could in the future. We typically denominate foreign transactions in foreign currency and have not regularly engaged in hedging transactions, although we may engage in hedging transactions from time to time in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 