Item 1A. RISK FACTORS I. Risks related to our financial results and our common stock. We have a history of operating losses, and we may incur losses in the future. We incurred net losses in each year since our inception through fiscal 2008, driven primarily by the research and development activities in our AMSC Superconductors business unit. While we achieved profitable results in fiscal 2009 and expect to achieve profitable results in fiscal 2010, we cannot be certain that we will sustain profitability. We believe our available cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and restricted cash will be sufficient to fund our working capital, capital expenditures and other cash requirements for at least the next twelve months. However, we may need additional funds if our performance deviates significantly from our current business plan, if cash accumulates in foreign countries that we are unable or unwilling to repatriate, if there are significant changes in competitive or other market factors, or if unforeseen circumstances arise. Such funds may not be available, or may not be available under terms acceptable to us. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and may fall below expectations in any particular fiscal quarter. Our operating results are difficult to predict and have at times fluctuated from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or any securities analysts that follow our company in any period, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline. Our operating expenses do not always vary directly with revenue and may be difficult to adjust in the short term. As a result, if revenue for a particular quarter is below our expectations, we may not be able to proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter, and therefore such a revenue shortfall would have a disproportionate effect on our operating results for that quarter. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from a single customer. Revenue growth in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007 was driven largely by our AMSC Power Systems business unit. Our largest customer is Sinovel in China. Sinovel accounted for a majority of our total revenues during these periods. Revenues from Sinovel are supported by purchase orders and contracts for electrical system core components as well as development contracts for the design of wind turbines. If Sinovel cancelled purchase orders or development contracts, or discontinued future purchases from us, we would likely be unable to replace the related revenues. This would have a serious negative impact on our operating results and financial position. Adverse changes in domestic and global economic conditions could adversely affect our operating results. As our business has grown, we have become increasingly subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic conditions. The state of both the domestic and global economies has recently become increasingly uncertain due to a significant reduction in the availability of credit, rising interest rates and financial market volatility. If credit continues to become more difficult to obtain, some customers may delay or reduce purchases. This could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies, increased accounts receivable write-offs and increased price competition. Any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in exchange rates could adversely affect our results from operations. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations, and we could experience losses with respect to our hedging activities. Unfavorable currency fluctuations could require us to increase prices to foreign customers, which could result in lower revenues by us from such customers. Alternatively, if we do not adjust the prices for our products in response to unfavorable currency fluctuations, our 21 Table of Contents results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, most sales made by our foreign subsidiaries are denominated in the currency of the country in which these products are sold, and the currency they receive in payment for such sales could be less valuable at the time of receipt as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. We enter into derivative instruments, including forward foreign exchange contracts and currency options to reduce currency exposure arising from intercompany sales of inventory. However, we cannot be certain that our efforts will be adequate to protect us against significant currency fluctuations or that such efforts will not expose us to additional exchange rate risks. Our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, significant market price and volume fluctuations, which may prevent our stockholders from selling our common stock at a profit and could lead to costly litigation against us that could divert our management’s attention. The market price of our common stock has historically experienced significant volatility and may continue to experience such volatility in the future. Factors such as technological achievements by us and our competitors, the establishment of development or strategic relationships with other companies, new customer orders and contracts, our introduction of commercial products, and our financial performance may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general, and the stock of high technology companies in particular, have in recent years experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which are often unrelated to the performance or condition of particular companies. Such broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Due to these factors, the price of our common stock may decline and investors may be unable to resell their shares of our common stock for a profit. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. If we become subject to this kind of litigation in the future, it could result in substantial litigation costs, a damages award against us and the diversion of our management’s attention. II. Risks related to our business and industry. General If we fail to implement our business strategy, our financial performance and our growth could be materially and adversely affected. Our future financial performance and success are dependent in large part upon our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. Our business strategy envisions several initiatives, including driving revenue growth and enhancing operating results by increasing adoption of our products by targeting high-growth segments with commercial products, pursuing overseas markets, anticipating customer needs in the development of system-level solutions, strengthening our technology leadership while lowering cost and pursuing targeted strategic acquisitions and alliances. We may not be able to implement our business strategy successfully or achieve the anticipated benefits of our business plan. If we are unable to do so, our long-term growth and profitability may be adversely affected. Even if we are able to implement some or all of the initiatives of our business plan successfully, our operating results may not improve to the extent we anticipate, or at all. Implementation of our business strategy could also be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, such as increased competition, legal developments, government regulation, general economic conditions or increased operating costs or expenses. In addition, to the extent we have misjudged the nature and extent of industry trends or our competition, we may have difficulty in achieving our strategic objectives. Any failure to implement our business strategy successfully may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may decide to alter or discontinue certain aspects of our business strategy at any time. We may not realize all of the sales expected from our backlog of orders and contracts. Though we generally report significant backlog, there can be no assurances that the revenue we expect to generate from this backlog will be realized in the periods we expect to realize such revenue, or at all. In addition, the backlog of orders, if realized, may not result in profitable revenue. Backlog represents the value of contracts and purchase orders received, less the revenue recognized to date on those contracts and purchase orders. Our customers have the right under some circumstances and with some penalties or consequences to terminate, reduce or defer firm 22 Table of Contents orders that we have in backlog. In addition, our government contracts are subject to the risks described below. If our customers terminate, reduce or defer firm orders, we may be protected from certain costs and losses, but our sales will nevertheless be adversely affected and we may not generate the revenue we expect. Although we strive to maintain ongoing relationships with our customers, there is an ongoing risk that orders may be cancelled or rescheduled due to fluctuations in our customers’ business needs or purchasing budgets. Our largest customer, Sinovel, has in recent years accounted for a majority of our backlog. In the event that we either fail to deliver product to Sinovel within 120 days after its specific delivery time, or become bankrupt or insolvent, Sinovel would have the right to terminate any remaining orders that we have in backlog. If Sinovel cancelled orders, it would have a material negative impact on our operating results and financial position. Many of our revenue opportunities are dependent upon subcontractors and other business collaborators. Many of the revenue opportunities for our business involve projects, such as the installation of superconductor cables in power grids and electrical system hardware in wind turbines, in which we collaborate with other companies, including suppliers of cryogenic systems, manufacturers of electric power cables and manufacturers of wind turbines. As a result, most of our current and planned revenue-generating projects involve business collaborators on whose performance our revenue is dependent. If these business partners fail to deliver their products or perform their obligations on a timely basis or fail to generate sufficient demand for the systems they manufacture, our revenue from the project may be delayed or decreased, and we may not be successful in selling our products. Our products face intense competition, which could limit our ability to acquire or retain customers. The markets for our products are intensely competitive. Our AMSC Power Systems business unit faces competition from companies offering power electronic converters for use in applications for which we expect to sell our PowerModule products. These companies include ABB, Inverpower, SatCon, Semikron and Xantrex (a subsidiary of Schneider Electric). We face competition from companies offering wind turbine electrical system components. These companies include ABB, Converteam, Ingeteam, Mita-Teknik, The Switch, Woodward Governor and Xantrex. We face competition from other companies offering FACTS systems similar to our D-VAR and SVC solutions. These include SVCs from ABB, Alstrom, AREVA, Mitsubishi Electric and Siemens; adaptive VAR compensators and STATCOMs produced by S&C Electric; DVRs (dynamic voltage restorers) produced by companies such as ABB and S&C Electric; and flywheels and battery-based UPS systems offered by various companies around the world. Our AMSC Windtec business faces competition for the supply of wind turbine engineering design services from design engineering firms, such as Garrad Hassan, and from licensors of wind turbine systems, such as Aerodyn, AventisEnergy and Fuhrlander. We also face indirect competition in the wind energy market from manufacturers of wind energy systems, such as Gamesa, General Electric, Suzlon and Vestas. Our AMSC Superconductors business unit faces competition both from vendors of traditional wires made from materials such as copper and from companies who are developing HTS wires. We also face competition for our 344 superconductors from a number of companies in the U.S. and abroad who are developing 2G HTS wire technology. These include Innova, MetOx, Superconductor Technologies and Superpower (a subsidiary of Royal Philips Electronics) in the U.S.; Fujikura, Furukawa, Showa and Sumitomo in Japan; SuNAM in South Korea; and Bruker, evico GmbH, Nexans and Zenergy in Europe. We believe that the proprietary processes we have adopted will prove to be the best processes to provide not only high-performance wire, but also commercial quantities at the lowest cost. Six companies — evico GmbH Furukawa,, Nexans, Showa, Sumitomo Electric and Zenergy Power — have been focusing their research programs more recently on the development of 2G HTS wire made by the same or similar processes we have chosen to utilize to manufacture 2G HTS wire. We are developing a stand-alone FCL in collaboration with Siemens and Nexans. We also are developing Secure Super Grids technology, which incorporates fault-current-limiting capability in superconductor power 23 Table of Contents cables. The industrial competition for stand-alone FCLs based on HTS includes Hypertech and SC Power (Zenergy Power) in the U.S.; Nexans and Rolls-Royce in Europe; Sumitomo Electric and Toshiba in Japan; Beijing Superconductor and Innopower in China; and Hyundai and LS Industrial Systems in Korea. Initial work on superconductor cables that incorporate fault current limiting characteristics was carried out several years ago by Bruker and Nexans using a different concept. The competition for stand-alone FCLs also includes non-HTS systems based on power electronics, including a system developed by Powell and Silicon Power. We believe we have a strong intellectual property position in Secure Super Grids technology and also a strong position on stand-alone FCLs in collaboration with Siemens. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources, research and development, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we have. In addition, as the HTS wire, superconductor electric motors and generators, and power electronic systems markets develop, other large industrial companies may enter those fields and compete with us. If we are unable to compete successfully, it may harm our business, which in turn may limit our ability to acquire or retain customers. Our success is dependent upon attracting and retaining qualified personnel and our inability to do so could significantly damage our business and prospects. We have attracted a highly skilled management team and specialized workforce, including scientists, engineers, researchers, manufacturing, marketing and sales professionals. If we were to lose the services of any of our executive officers or key employees, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. Finding and retaining good personnel for our business is challenging, and highly qualified technical personnel are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future despite current economic conditions and rising unemployment levels. We may not be able to hire the necessary personnel to implement our business strategy, or we may need to provide higher compensation or more training to our personnel than we currently anticipate. Moreover, any officer or employee can terminate his or her relationship with us at any time. We may acquire additional complementary businesses or technologies, which may require us to incur substantial costs for which we may never realize the anticipated benefits. We may in the future acquire complementary businesses or technologies. As a result of any acquisitions we pursue, management’s attention and resources may be diverted from our other businesses. An acquisition may also involve a significant purchase price, which could reduce our cash position or dilute our stockholders, and significant transaction-related expenses. Achieving the benefits of any acquisition involves additional risks, including: • difficulty assimilating acquired operations, technologies and personnel; • inability to retain management and other key personnel of the acquired business; • changes in management or other key personnel that may harm relationships with the acquired business’s customers and employees; • unforeseen liabilities of the acquired business; and • diversion of management attention as a result of the integration process. We cannot ensure that we will realize any of the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, and if we fail to realize these anticipated benefits, our operating performance could suffer. Our international operations are subject to risks that we do not face in the U.S., which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. We are expanding our sales and service operations in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region, including a new operation in China. We expect our revenue and operations outside the United States will continue to expand in the future. For fiscal years ended March 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, a majority of our consolidated revenues were derived 24 Table of Contents from customers outside of the United States. Our international operations are subject to a variety of risks that we do not face in the U.S., including: • difficulties in staffing and managing our foreign offices and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; • potentially longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • additional withholding taxes or other taxes on our foreign income and repatriated cash, and tariffs or other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including export duties and quotas, trade and employment restrictions; • imposition of, or unexpected adverse changes in, foreign laws or regulatory requirements; • increased exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and • political unrest, war or acts of terrorism. Our overall success in international markets depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. We may not be successful in developing and implementing policies and strategies that will be effective in managing these risks in each country where we do business or conduct operations. Our failure to manage these risks successfully could harm our international operations and reduce our international sales, thus adversely affecting our business, operating results and financial condition. AMSC Power Systems Business Unit We have limited experience manufacturing our Power Systems products in commercial quantities overseas. We currently produce our primary Power Systems products, including the PM3000, at our manufacturing facility in China. We do not have significant experience managing foreign manufacturing operations, and such operations are subject to complexities that we may not be able to adequately anticipate or manage. An inability to successfully manufacture our products at acceptable cost and quality through our China facility may affect our future revenue and profit. We rely upon third party suppliers for the components and subassemblies of many of our products, making us vulnerable to supply shortages and price fluctuations, which could harm our business. Many of the Power Systems’ components and subassemblies are currently manufactured for us by a limited number of suppliers. Any interruption in the supply of components or subassemblies, or our inability to obtain substitute components or subassemblies from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers, which would have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. We are producing some Power Systems products in our manufacturing facility in China. In order to minimize costs and time to market, we have and will continue to identify local suppliers that meet our quality standards to produce certain of our subassemblies and components. These efforts may not be successful. In addition, any event which negatively impacts our supply, including, among others, wars, terrorist activities, natural disasters and outbreaks of infectious disease, could delay or suspend shipments of products or the release of new products or could result in the delivery of inferior products. Our revenues from the affected products would decline or we could incur losses until such time as we are able to restore our production processes or put in place alternative contract manufacturers or suppliers. Even though we carry business interruption insurance policies, we may suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies. 25 Table of Contents We are becoming increasingly reliant on contracts that require the issuance of performance bonds. While we have been required to provide performance bonds in the form of surety bonds or letters of credit in the past, the size of the bonds was not material. In recent years, we have entered into contracts that require us to post bonds of significant magnitude. In many instances, we are required to deposit cash in escrow accounts as collateral for these instruments, which is unavailable to us for general use for significant periods of time. Should we be unable to obtain performance bonds in the future, significant future potential revenue could become unavailable to us. Further, should our working capital situation deteriorate, we would not be able to access the escrowed cash to meet working capital requirements. Problems with product quality or product performance may cause us to incur warranty expenses and may damage our market reputation and prevent us from achieving increased sales and market share. Consistent with customary practice in our industry, we warrant our products and/or services to be free from defects in material and workmanship under normal use and service. Warranties are generally for a duration of twelve months from the date the products and/or services are put into service or 18 months from the date of delivery, whichever occurs first. In some cases, the warranty can be extended to twenty four months from date of delivery and thirty six months from in-service activation. In rare cases warranties can be for as long as five years. The possibility of future product failures could cause us to incur substantial expenses to repair or replace defective products. Furthermore, widespread product failures may damage our market reputation and reduce our market share and cause sales to decline. Our success in addressing the wind energy market is dependent on the manufacturers that license our designs. Because an important element of our strategy for addressing the wind energy market involves the license of our wind turbine designs to manufacturers of those systems, the financial benefits to us from our products for the wind energy market are dependent on the success of these manufacturers in selling wind turbines based on our designs. We may not be able to enter into marketing or distribution arrangements with third parties on financially acceptable terms, and third parties may not be successful in selling our products or applications incorporating our products. Growth of the wind energy market depends largely on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives. At present, the cost of wind energy exceeds the cost of conventional power generation in many locations around the world. Various governments have used different policy initiatives to encourage or accelerate the development and adoption of wind energy and other renewable energy sources. Renewable energy policies are in place in the European Union, most notably Germany and Spain, certain countries in Asia, including China, Japan and South Korea, and many of the states in Australia and the United States. Examples of government sponsored financial incentives include capital cost rebates, feed-in tariffs, tax credits, net metering and other incentives to end-users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of wind energy products to promote the use of wind energy and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. Governments may decide to reduce or eliminate these economic incentives for political, financial or other reasons. Reductions in, or eliminations of, government subsidies and economic incentives before the wind energy industry reaches a sufficient scale to be cost-effective in a non-subsidized marketplace could reduce demand for our products and adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. AMSC Superconductors Business Unit There are a number of technological challenges that must be successfully addressed before our superconductor products can gain widespread commercial acceptance, and our inability to address such technological challenges could adversely affect our ability to acquire customers for our products. Many of our superconductor products are in the early stages of commercialization, while others are still under development. There are a number of technological challenges that we must successfully address to complete our development and commercialization efforts for superconductor products. We also believe that several years of 26 Table of Contents further demonstration in the cable, fault current limiter and motor industries may be necessary before a substantial commercial market could develop. We will also need to improve the performance and reduce the cost of our HTS wire to expand the number of commercial applications for it. We may be unable to meet such technological challenges or to sufficiently improve the performance and reduce the costs of our HTS wire. Delays in development, as a result of technological challenges or other factors, may result in the introduction or commercial acceptance of our superconductor products later than anticipated. We have not manufactured our 344 superconductors in commercial quantities, and a failure to manufacture our 344 superconductors in commercial quantities at acceptable cost and quality levels would substantially limit our future revenue and profit potential. We are developing commercial-scale manufacturing processes for our 344 superconductors, which are very different from our 1G HTS wire manufacturing processes and are complex and challenging. In November 2007, we started initial production of our 344 superconductors on a new manufacturing line that was designed for an annual capacity of 720,000 meters. However, in order to be able to offer our wire at pricing that we believe will be commercially competitive, we estimate that we will need to develop the capacity to millions of meters of our 344 superconductors annually. We may not be able to manufacture satisfactory commercial quantities of 344 superconductors of consistent quality with an acceptable yield and cost. Failure to successfully scale up manufacturing of our 344 superconductors would result in a significant limitation of the broad market acceptance of our HTS products and of our future revenue and profit potential. The commercial uses of superconductor products are limited today, and a widespread commercial market for our products may not develop. To date, there has been no widespread commercial use of HTS products. Even if the technological hurdles currently limiting commercial uses of HTS products are overcome, it is uncertain whether a robust commercial market for those new and unproven products will ever develop. To date, many projects to install superconductor cables and products in power grids have been funded or subsidized by the governmental authorities. If this funding is curtailed, grid operators may not continue to utilize superconductor cables and products in their projects. In addition, we believe in-grid demonstrations of superconductor power cables are necessary to convince utilities and power grid operators of the benefits of this technology. Even if a project is funded, completion of projects can be delayed as a result of other factors. For example, a delay in the completion of project Hydra, which involves the development and deployment of our Secure Super Grids technology in Manhattan, occurred due to a delay in construction by Consolidated Edison of a substation the cable system would be connected to. It is possible that the market demands we currently anticipate for our HTS products will not develop and that they will never achieve widespread commercial acceptance. We have limited experience in marketing and selling our superconductor products and system-level solutions, and our failure to effectively market and sell our products and solutions could adversely affect our revenue and cash flow. To date, we have limited experience marketing and selling our superconductor products and system-level solutions, and there are few people who have significant experience marketing or selling superconductor products and system-level solutions. Once our products and solutions are ready for widespread commercial use, we will have to develop a marketing and sales organization that will effectively demonstrate the advantages of our products over both more traditional products and competing superconductor products or other technologies. We may not be successful in our efforts to market this new technology, and we may not be able to establish an effective sales and distribution organization. We may decide to enter into arrangements with third parties for the marketing or distribution of our products, including arrangements in which our products, such as HTS wire, are included as a component of a larger product, such as a power cable system or a motor. By entering into marketing and sales alliances, the financial benefits to us of commercializing our products are dependent on the efforts of others. 27 Table of Contents Our contracts with the U.S. government are subject to audit, modification or termination by the U.S. government, include certain other provisions in favor of the government, and the continued funding of such contracts remains subject to annual congressional appropriation which, if not approved, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. As a company that contracts with the U.S. government, we are subject to financial audits and other reviews by the U.S. government of our costs and performance, accounting and general business practices relating to these contracts. Based on the results of these audits, the U.S. government may adjust our contract-related costs and fees. We cannot be certain that adjustments arising from government audits and reviews would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our U.S. government contracts customarily contain other provisions that give the government substantial rights and remedies, many of which are not typically found in commercial contracts, including provisions that allow the government to: • obtain certain rights to the intellectual property that we develop under the contract; • decline to award future contracts if actual or apparent organizational conflicts of interest are discovered, or to impose organizational conflict mitigation measures as a condition of eligibility for an award; • suspend or debar the contractor from doing business with the government or a specific government agency; and • pursue criminal or civil remedies under the False Claims Act, False Statements Act and similar remedy provisions unique to government contracting. All of our U.S. government contracts can be terminated by the U.S. government for its convenience. Termination-for-convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed, and for settlement of expenses and profit on work completed prior to termination. In addition to the right of the U.S. government to terminate its contracts with us, U.S. government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing approval by Congress of the necessary spending to honor such contracts. Congress often appropriates funds for a program on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. Consequently, at the beginning of many major governmental programs, contracts often may not be fully funded, and additional monies are then committed to the contract only if, as and when appropriations are made by Congress for future fiscal years. We cannot be certain that our U.S. government contracts will not be terminated or suspended in the future. The U.S. government’s termination of, or failure to fully fund, one or more of our contracts would have a negative impact on our operating results and financial condition. Further, in the event that any of our government contracts are terminated for cause, it could affect our ability to obtain future government contracts which could, in turn, seriously harm our ability to develop our technologies and products. III. Risks related to our intellectual property and legal matters. Our technology and products could infringe intellectual property rights of others, which may require costly litigation and, if we are not successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages and disrupt our business. In recent years, there has been significant litigation involving patents and other intellectual property rights in many technology-related industries. There may be patents or patent applications in the United States or other countries that are pertinent to our products or business of which we are not aware. The technology that we incorporate into and use to develop and manufacture our current and future products may be subject to claims that they infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others. The success of our business will also depend on our ability to develop new technologies without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. Third parties may allege that we infringe patents, trademarks or copyrights, or that we misappropriated trade secrets. These allegations could result in significant costs and diversion of the attention of management. If a successful claim were brought against us and we are found to infringe a third party’s intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay substantial damages, including treble damages if it is determined that we have willfully infringed such rights, or be enjoined from using the technology deemed to be infringing or using, making or selling products deemed to be 28 Table of Contents infringing. If we have supplied infringing products or technology to third parties, we may be obligated to indemnify these third parties for damages they may be required to pay to the patent holder and for any losses they may sustain as a result of the infringement. In addition, we may need to attempt to license the intellectual property right from such third party or spend time and money to design around or avoid the intellectual property. Any such license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all. An adverse determination may subject us to significant liabilities and/or disrupt our business. Our patents may not provide meaningful protection for our technology, which could result in us losing some or all of our market position. We own or have licensing rights under many patents and pending patent applications. However, the patents that we own or license may not provide us with meaningful protection of our technologies and may not prevent our competitors from using similar technologies, for a variety of reasons, such as: • the patent applications that we or our licensors file may not result in patents being issued; • any patents issued may be challenged by third parties; and • others may independently develop similar technologies not protected by our patents or design around the patented aspects of any technologies we develop. Moreover, we could incur substantial litigation costs in defending the validity of or enforcing our own patents. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect our intellectual property. However, our non-disclosure agreements and other safeguards may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and other proprietary information. If the patents that we own or license or our trade secrets and proprietary know-how fail to protect our technologies, our market position may be adversely affected. Third parties have or may acquire patents that cover the materials, processes and technologies we use or may use in the future to manufacture our HTS products, and our success depends on our ability to license such patents or other proprietary rights. We expect that some or all of the HTS materials, processes and technologies we use in designing and manufacturing our products are or will become covered by patents issued to other parties, including our competitors. The owners of these patents may refuse to grant licenses to us, or may be willing to do so only on terms that we find commercially unreasonable. If we are unable to obtain these licenses, we may have to contest the validity or scope of those patents or re-engineer our products to avoid infringement claims by the owners of these patents. It is possible that we will not be successful in contesting the validity or scope of a patent, or that we will not prevail in a patent infringement claim brought against us. Even if we are successful in such a proceeding, we could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources in prosecuting or defending such a proceeding. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 