Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Industry The markets for our services are intensely competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully against existing and future competitors and, as a result, we may not be able to maintain or increase our market share and revenues. The markets for our services are intensely competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future. For information regarding the markets in which we compete, see “Business – Competition.” Many of our current and potential competitors, such as major telecommunications, equipment, software and application service providers, have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, more robust service offerings, more comprehensive support organizations, larger customer bases and substantially greater financial, personnel, marketing, engineering, technical and other resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer demands. They may also be able to devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services. We believe that our current competitors are likely to expand their service offerings and new competitors are likely to enter our markets. Some of our existing and potential competitors may enter into or expand their positions in the markets in which we compete through acquisitions, strategic alliances and the development of integrated service offerings. For example, West acquired several conferencing services providers, including Genesys, Raindance Communications, Inc., InterCall, ConferenceCall.com, ECI Conference Call Services, LLC and Sprint Nextel Corporation’s conferencing division, as well as Televox Software, Incorporated and CenterPost Communications in the automated notifications space. For example, Cisco Systems acquired WebEx Communications to augment its premises-based conferencing offerings, and now offers web collaboration functionality within its WebEx suite of products, and Microsoft acquired PlaceWare, Inc. and integrated PlaceWare’s services into its suite of Office series of applications, and now offers web collaboration capabilities through its Microsoft® Office Live Meeting web conferencing services. Also, we compete with companies with whom we also have distribution relationships or with whom we resell certain of their services, as well as with internally developed solutions for companies who choose to insource these needs. Increased competition could result in price pressure on our products and services and a decrease in our market share in the various markets in which we compete, either of which could hinder our ability to grow our revenues. 8 Technological changes, the development of alternatives to our services and our non-exclusive customer arrangements may cause us to lose market share and may hinder our ability to maintain or grow our revenues. The market for our services is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new service introductions and evolving industry standards. We expect new services and enhancements to existing services to be developed and introduced that will compete with our services. Technological advances may result in the development and commercial availability of alternatives to or new methods of delivering our services and pricing options that could be more attractive to our customers. These developments could cause our existing services to become obsolete, result in significant pricing pressure on our services or allow our existing and potential customers to meet their own business communications needs without using our services. Because we do not typically have long-term or exclusive contractual agreements with our customers or revenue commitments, and many of our larger enterprise customers allocate their business among multiple service providers, any of these developments could result in significant customer and associated revenue loss. We must continually introduce new services and enhancements to existing services in response to technological changes, evolving industry standards and customer demands. Our ability to successfully develop and market such new services and enhancements depends, in part, on our ability to: foresee changes in industry standards; anticipate and apply advances in technologies; enhance our software, applications, equipment, systems and networks; and attract and retain qualified and creative technical personnel. For example, in 2009, we began developing our new collaboration platform. In order for this new platform to succeed in the future, we believe the demand for collaboration technology will need to shift from the products and services currently offered by our competitors and by us, or from other technologies that facilitate information sharing that are currently outside the collaboration industry as traditionally defined, to this next generation technology. Our new services and enhancements may not be as successful as our competitors’ solutions. In addition, if we are unable to develop new services and enhancements or if we experience delays in their introduction, we will not be able to gain market share and increase our revenues. We are subject to pricing pressures for our services which could cause us to lose market share and decrease revenues and profitability. We compete for customers based on several factors, including price. If we cannot compete based on price, we may lose market share. If we reduce our rates without increasing our volume or our market share, our revenues could decrease. For example, we have experienced declines in the average selling price per minute of services across our solution sets, including within our PGiMeet solutions, which we currently expect to continue. In some cases, our competitors may offer their services at reduced rates or free on a trial basis in order to win customers. In addition, telecommunications service providers will generally have lower telecommunications costs as a result of their ownership of an underlying telecommunications network and may offer services similar to ours at reduced rates. Due to competitive factors and the rapidly changing marketplace for our services, we have reduced our pricing in certain circumstances and expect we may be required to further reduce our pricing in the future. Further, an increase in our rates or a reduction in our rates without a proportionate decrease in our associated costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Business Recent global economic trends or a prolonged recession could adversely affect our business and financial results. As widely reported, the recent disruption in the global financial markets, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, stock market volatility, substantially increased unemployment, reduced corporate profits and capital spending and continuing economic uncertainties have significantly adversely impacted global economic conditions. Our business trends and revenue growth continue to be affected by the challenging economic climate, higher global unemployment and lower global business activity. These difficult economic conditions as well as a prolonged recession could adversely affect our business and results of operations, primarily though our access to credit and the adverse impact these conditions may have on our customers. These conditions have resulted in a substantial tightening of the credit markets, including lending by financial institutions, which is our source for borrowing and liquidity, and have increased the cost of capital and reduced the availability of credit. Although we 9 anticipate refinancing our existing credit facility in the first half of 2010, prior to its scheduled maturity in April 2011, we expect pricing to be higher than our current level due to general credit market conditions. Any such refinancing could require significantly more expensive interest rates and covenants that restrict our operations to a significantly greater extent. In addition, a prolonged recession and the uncertainty about future economic conditions may adversely affect our customers’ level of spending, ability to obtain financing for purchases, ability to make timely payments to us for our services and adoption of new technologies, which could require us to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts, negatively impact our days sales outstanding, lead to increased price competition and adversely affect our results of operations. These conditions may also force some of our customers, such as customers in the financial services or other industries, to announce additional layoffs, consolidate or declare bankruptcy, which could decrease the market for our services. Our future success depends on market acceptance of our new services. Market acceptance of our new services often requires that individuals and enterprises accept new ways of communicating and exchanging information. Our growth depends on the successful development and introduction of new services and enhancements to our existing services. For example, we recently announced our intention to launch a virtual meeting platform this year. We believe that the success of this new platform will depend on customer perceptions as to the technological and operational benefits or improved user experience associated with it as compared to alternative products and services. A failure to achieve broad market acceptance of or a decline in the demand for our new services could hinder our ability to maintain and increase our revenues. We believe that broad market acceptance of our new services will depend on several factors, including: ease of use; price; reliability; accessibility to our services; quality of service; system security; product functionality; and the effectiveness of our strategic marketing and sales efforts and distribution relationships. If we do not meet these challenges, our new services may not achieve broad market acceptance or market acceptance may not occur quickly enough to justify our investment in these services. We believe that continuing to strengthen our current services and brands and effectively launching new services and brands will require continued focus on active marketing efforts. For example, we currently anticipate an increase in selling and marketing expense in 2010 as compared to 2009 relating to the launch of our new meeting platform later this year. The demand for and cost of advertising have been increasing and may continue to increase. Accordingly, we may need to spend increasing amounts of money on, and devote greater resources to, advertising, marketing and other efforts to create and maintain brand loyalty among users. Promotional efforts may not yield increased revenues, and even if they do, any increased revenues may not offset the expenses incurred in building our brand. If we fail to promote and maintain our brand, or if we incur substantial expense in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brand, our business could be harmed. Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and further penetrate large global enterprise customers. We must retain and continue to expand our ability to reach and penetrate large global enterprise customers. These customers may request special pricing, such as bundled pricing or volume discounts, and generally have longer sales cycles, which could negatively impact our revenues. In 2009, we formed a new managed services sales force within our global accounts channel to meet an increasing customer demand for this method of delivering our services. Our inability to attract and retain these types of customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, and these efforts may result in additional expenses without proportionally increasing our revenues. 10 If we cannot successfully integrate new technologies, we may not generate sufficient revenues and operational synergies may not develop. We have experienced and may continue to experience difficulty integrating new technologies into our existing systems. For example, in 2009, we began accepting direct Session Initiation Protocol, or SIP, from our customers, which requires significant coordination and planning. If we cannot successfully integrate new technologies, we may not generate sufficient revenues and operational synergies may not develop. Concerns regarding security of transactions and transmitting confidential information over the Internet and public networks may have an adverse impact on the use of our web-based services. Concerns regarding the security of confidential information, such as customers’ business, credit card or other personally identifiable information, transmitted over the Internet and public networks may prevent customers from using our web-based services. Despite the security measures we have taken, our infrastructure is potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, viruses or similar problems. If someone is able to circumvent our security measures, they could misappropriate our proprietary information or cause interruption in our operations. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Actual or perceived security breaches could damage our reputation, expose us to a risk of loss or liability and result in a loss of confidence in the security of our services that could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. We may be required to make additional significant investments in efforts to protect against and remedy these types of security breaches. In addition, some of our customers are subject to varying degrees of government regulation, particularly in the insurance, healthcare and financial services industries. Increased interest in data privacy protections and information security obligations could impose additional regulatory pressures on our customers’ businesses, and indirectly, on our operations. Some of our customers may seek to impose certain data privacy and information security obligations on us. If we are unable to adequately address these concerns, our business and results of operations could suffer. Compliance with new privacy and security laws, requirements and regulations, where required or undertaken by us, may result in cost increases due to potential systems changes, the development of additional administrative processes and increased enforcement actions and fines and penalties. While we strive to comply with all applicable data protection laws and regulations as well as our own posted privacy policies, any failure or perceived failure to comply or any misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential information may result in proceedings or actions against us by government entities or others, or could cause us to lose customers, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business, reputation and results of operations. Technological obsolescence of our equipment could result in substantial capital expenditures. Technological advances may result in the development of new equipment and changing industry standards, which could cause our equipment to become obsolete. These events could require us to invest significant capital in upgrading or replacing our equipment. For example, we have significantly increased our number of VoIP ports on a global basis. We believe these media servers effectively address our current requirements and enable us to grow our business effectively; however, new standards could be introduced in the future and may require us to upgrade some of these servers in certain regions around the world. If we fail to increase our network capacity to meet customer demands, the quality of our service offerings may suffer. We continuously attempt to predict growth in our network usage and add capacity accordingly. If we do not accurately predict and efficiently manage growth in our network usage, the quality of our service offerings may suffer and we may lose customers. For example, during 2009, we increased capacity requirements as a result of local access arrangements with certain of our large customers. 11 Downtime in our network infrastructure could result in the loss of significant customers and revenues. We currently maintain facilities with telecommunications equipment in locations throughout the world. The delivery of our services is dependent, in part, upon our ability to protect the equipment and data at our facilities against damage that may be caused by fire, power loss, technical failures, unauthorized intrusion, natural disasters, sabotage and other similar events. Despite taking a variety of precautions, we have experienced downtime in our networks from time to time due to service or network outages and periodic system upgrades, and we may experience downtime in the future. For example, in 2009, we continued to migrate to third-party colocation facilities in order to better service our expanding infrastructure demands. As a result, we may experience configuration demands with these colocation facilities that could impact our service quality. Although we believe that we take substantial precautions to protect ourselves and our customers from events that could interrupt delivery of our services, service interruptions could still occur and result in the loss of significant customers, which could cause us to lose revenues. While we maintain business interruption insurance providing for aggregate coverage of approximately $80 million per policy year, we may not be able to maintain insurance for this risk in the future, or it may not continue to be available at reasonable prices. Even if we maintain insurance for this risk, it may not be sufficient to compensate us for losses that we experience due to our inability to provide services to our customers. Interruption in third-party services that we use could result in service delays and disruptions and a loss of significant customers and revenues. Our ability to maintain and expand our business depends, in part, on our ability to continue to obtain telecommunications, financial systems hosting services and web-based services on favorable terms from traditional and VoIP telecommunications service providers, local exchange carriers, financial systems hosting providers and Internet service providers. We do not own a telecommunications network and host a significant portion of our financial systems. As a result, we depend on a variety of third-party providers for telecommunications services, web conferencing services, call origination and termination local transmission, Internet access and financial systems. We have experienced delays and disruptions in our services in the past due to service interruptions from telecommunications service providers. For example, we have experienced interruptions in service as a result of our underlying carriers’ network outages and as a result of increased traffic volumes. Any interruptions in the delivery of our services due to third-party outages could result in a loss of significant customers and revenues. Continued weakness in our legacy broadcast fax services may negatively impact our financial performance. We have experienced declines in revenue from our legacy broadcast fax services and expect continued declines in the future. Our future success is dependent in part upon our ability to transition our broadcast fax customers to our newer technologies, such as email and voice delivery services. If we are unable to convert these customers to our alternative solutions, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. Our inability to efficiently utilize or re-negotiate minimum purchase requirements in our telecommunications supply agreements could decrease our profitability. Our ability to maintain and expand our business depends, in part, on our ability to continue to obtain telecommunications services on favorable terms from telecommunications service providers. The total amount of our minimum purchase requirements in 2009 was approximately $37.8 million, and we incurred telecommunications costs in excess of these minimums. Agreements with some of our telecommunications service providers contain minimum purchase requirements through 2011. These commitments total approximately $61.5 million, with annual costs of approximately $32.9 million and $28.6 million in 2010 and 2011, respectively. In addition, certain circuits and colocation services that we purchase are subject to term requirements, including penalties for early termination. Other telecommunications suppliers may provide similar services at lower prices, and we may not be able to re-negotiate our current supply agreements to achieve comparable lower rates. Such additional costs may require us to increase the prices for our services to our customers. We can give no assurance that we will be able to utilize the minimum amount of services that we are required to purchase under our telecommunications supply agreements. Moreover, if we are unable to obtain telecommunications services on favorable terms or if we are required to purchase more services than we are able to utilize in the operation of our business, the costs of providing our services would likely increase, which could decrease our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Our level of indebtedness may harm our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2009, we have utilized approximately $260.8 million of indebtedness, including approximately $254.9 million in borrowings and $5.9 million in letters of credit outstanding under our $375.0 million credit facility. From time to time, we enter into interest rate swaps to reduce our exposure to market risk from changes in interest rates on interest payments associated with our credit facility. As of December 31, 2009, we had one $100.0 million interest rate swap, for a three-year period ending in August 2010 with a fixed rate of approximately 4.75%. Our level of indebtedness will have several important effects on our future operations, including, without limitation: A portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to the payment of any interest or amortization required with respect to outstanding indebtedness; Increases in our outstanding indebtedness and leverage will increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; Depending on the levels of our outstanding debt, our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures, general corporate and other purposes may be limited; and Recent credit market events and the subsequent tightening of the availability of capital both from financial institutions and the debt markets may have an adverse effect on our ability to access additional capital. At the scheduled maturity of our credit facility in April 2011 or in the event of an acceleration of the indebtedness under our credit facility following an event of default, the entire outstanding principal amount of the indebtedness under the facility, together with all other amounts payable thereunder from time to time, will become due and payable. It is possible that we may not have sufficient funds to pay such obligations in full at maturity or upon such acceleration. If we default and are not able to pay any such obligations due, our lenders have liens on substantially all of our assets and could foreclose on our assets in order to satisfy our obligations. We anticipate refinancing our existing credit facility in the first half of 2010. However, given the current uncertainty in the credit and financial markets, we may not be able to enter into a new credit facility on substantially similar terms or otherwise on terms favorable to us or, alternatively, extend the tenor of our existing credit facility when it matures, which may affect our future results of operations. In addition, we currently expect pricing on a new credit facility to be higher than current levels due to general credit market conditions. Our dependence on our subsidiaries for cash flow may negatively affect our business and our ability to meet our debt service obligations. We conduct substantially all of our business through our subsidiaries. Our ability to pay amounts due under our indebtedness in the future will be dependent upon the ability of our subsidiaries to make cash distributions of earnings, loans or other payments to us based on their earnings and cash flows. Our subsidiaries may not have sufficient funds or may not be able to distribute sufficient funds to us to enable us to service or repay such indebtedness. We may not realize the anticipated savings of our restructuring and cost reduction initiatives. To allow us to operate more efficiently and control costs, we incurred several restructuring charges in 2009 related to the consolidation and streamlining of various functions of our workforce. As part of these consolidations, we incurred severance costs related to the elimination of approximately 500 positions and lease termination costs associated with office locations in North America and Europe. We will continue to pay the costs associated with these charges over the next nine years. We may not realize the expected benefits of these initiatives and may incur additional restructuring costs in the future. In addition, we could experience delays, business disruptions, unanticipated employee turnover and increased litigation-related costs in connection with our restructuring efforts. The complex nature of these restructuring initiatives could cause difficulties or delays in the implementation of any such initiative or the impact of the restructuring initiatives may not be immediately apparent. There can be no 13 assurance that our estimates of the savings achievable by these initiatives will be realized, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Our financial performance could cause future write-downs of goodwill or other intangible assets in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. As of December 31, 2009, we had $354.6 million of goodwill not subject to amortization and $24.8 million of other intangible assets, net of amortization, reflected in our consolidated financial statements including $22.1 million for which amortization will continue. During 2009, we determined that goodwill and intangible assets with a net book value of approximately $0.9 million and $0.3 million, respectively, were impaired. We wrote off the related assets and recorded the net book value as asset impairments reflected as discontinued operations during the year ended December 31, 2009. Goodwill is not subject to amortization but is subject to an annual impairment review. We are required to exercise significant judgment in identifying and assessing whether impairment indicators exist or if events or changes in circumstances have occurred, including market conditions, operating results, competition and general economic conditions. Any change in our key assumptions could result in an impairment charge that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may be subject to assessment of income, state sales and other taxes for which we have not accrued. We have reserves for certain state sales and excise tax contingencies based on the likelihood of obligation. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had reserved $4.4 and $4.6 million, respectively, for certain state sales and excise tax contingencies. These reserved amounts are included in “Accrued taxes, other than income taxes” in our consolidated balance sheets. We believe we have appropriately accrued for these contingencies. In the event that actual results differ from these reserves, we may need to make adjustments, which could materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. Historically, we have collected and remitted state sales tax from our non-PGiMeet solutions customers in applicable states, but we have not collected and remitted state sales tax from our PGiMeet solutions customers in all applicable jurisdictions. However, we have learned that certain of our PGiMeet solutions may be subject to telecommunications excise tax statutes in certain states. During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we paid $0.1 million and $2.8 million related to the settlement of certain of these state sales and excise tax contingencies. In addition, states may disagree with our method of assessing and remitting such taxes or additional states may subject us to inquiries regarding such taxes. For example, in May 2009, one of our former subsidiaries, PTEKVentures.com, Inc., a Nevada corporation formally dissolved in 2002, received a notice of proposed income tax assessment from the Georgia Department of Revenue totaling approximately $22.7 million as of June 15, 2009. Because we are at a preliminary stage of the process for resolving this dispute with the Georgia Department of Revenue, we cannot, at this time, reasonably estimate the amount, if any, of taxes or other interest, penalties or additions to tax that would ultimately be assessed at the conclusion of the process, and therefore have not accrued any amounts related to this assessment. We are also not able to currently estimate when the administrative procedures and review within the Georgia Department of Revenue will be completed. We believe we have meritorious defenses and will continue to vigorously contest this matter. However, if the Georgia Department of Revenue’s initial position is sustained, the amount assessed would result in a material adjustment to our consolidated financial statements and would adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. If our quarterly results do not meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price may decrease. Our quarterly revenues are difficult to forecast because the market for our services is rapidly evolving and our services are primarily usage-based and event-driven, as we have operated historically without subscription fees or minimum commitments. Our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations as to future revenues. If our revenue levels are below expectations, we may be unable or unwilling to reduce expenses proportionately, and our operating results would likely be adversely affected. In addition, we believe that unlike many technology companies, we entered into 2009 with good business momentum and revenue growth in our PGiMeet solutions, which will make quarterly prior period comparisons difficult. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. It is possible that our operating results may fail to meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors in a future quarter, which will likely cause the market price of our common stock to decline. 14 Our operating results have varied significantly in the past and may vary significantly in the future. Specific factors that may cause our future operating results to vary include: fluctuations in operating expenses; increased competition and pricing pressure; the reliability and performance of our services; the timing of new service announcements; market acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our services; changes in regulations and legislation that may affect the competitive environment for our services; and general economic and seasonal factors. Our stock has been volatile and we expect that it will continue to be volatile. Our stock price has been volatile, and we expect it will continue to be volatile. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2009, the closing price of our common stock ranged from a high of $12.52 to a low of $6.89. The volatility of our stock price can be due to factors such as: fluctuating operating results; announcements by us or our competitors of significant technological innovations, customer contracts, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures or capital commitments; and changes in security analysts’ estimates of our performance or our failure to meet analysts’ expectations. Many of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, broad market and industry factors may negatively impact our stock price, regardless of our operating performance. The performance of our business depends on attracting and retaining qualified key personnel. Our performance depends on attracting and retaining key personnel, including executive, sales and marketing personnel and customer support, product development and other technical personnel. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the performance of our business and the results of our operations. Our articles and bylaws and Georgia corporate law may inhibit a takeover which may be in the best interests of our shareholders. There are several provisions in our articles and bylaws and under Georgia corporate law that may inhibit a takeover, even when a takeover may be in the interests of our shareholders. For example, our board of directors is empowered to issue preferred stock without shareholder action. The existence of this “blank-check” preferred stock could render more difficult or discourage an attempt to obtain control of us by means of a tender offer, merger, proxy contest or otherwise. We are also subject to provisions of the Georgia corporate law that relate to business combinations with interested shareholders, which can serve to inhibit a takeover. In addition to considering the effects of any action on us and our shareholders, our articles permit our board to consider the interests of various constituencies, including employees, customers, suppliers, creditors, communities in which we maintain offices or operations and other factors which they deem pertinent, in carrying out and discharging their duties and responsibilities and in determining what the board believes to be in our best interests. 15 Risks Related to Acquisitions We face risks in connection with completed or potential acquisitions. Our growth has been enhanced through acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies that we believe will complement our business. We regularly evaluate acquisition opportunities, frequently engage in acquisition discussions, conduct due diligence activities in connection with possible acquisitions and, if appropriate, engage in acquisition negotiations. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions, integrate acquired operations into our existing operations or expand into new markets. In addition, we compete for acquisitions and expansion opportunities with companies that have substantially greater resources, and competition with these companies for acquisition targets could result in increased prices for possible targets. Acquisitions also involve numerous additional risks to us and our investors, including: risk in retaining key acquired management, employees and acquired customers; difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, services and personnel of the acquired assets or company; outages of operations infrastructure of acquired businesses prior to transition to our infrastructure; diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns; assumption of known and unknown or contingent liabilities; adverse financial impact from the amortization of expenses related to intangible assets; incurrence of indebtedness; potential adverse financial impact from failure of acquisitions to meet internal revenue and earnings expectations; entry into markets in which we have little or no direct prior experience; and potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. If we fail to adequately manage these acquisition risks, the acquisitions may not result in revenue growth, operational synergies or service or technology enhancements, which could adversely affect our financial results. In connection with the integrations of our acquisitions, we have experienced some delays in obtaining anticipated cost savings and increases in past due receivables due to delays in integrations and technology enhancements required of our infrastructure. Risks Related to Intellectual Property We may not be able to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights, which could result in the loss of our rights or increased costs. We rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights. These measures provide only limited protection. If we are not able to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights, we could lose those rights and incur substantial costs policing and defending those rights. If our means of protecting these proprietary rights are not adequate, our competitors may independently develop similar or competitive technologies and the perception of our services to customers and potential customers may become confused in the marketplace. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the United States. 16 Successful prosecution of claims alleging patent, copyright or trademark infringement against us could result in substantial costs. Many patents, copyrights and trademarks have been issued in the general areas of information services, telecommunications, computer telephony and the Internet. From time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we have received and expect to continue to receive notices, or be subject to third-party claims or proceedings, alleging that our current or future products or services infringe the patent, copyright or trademark rights or other intellectual property rights of third parties. In addition, our resellers or customers may allege that we are obligated to indemnify them for similar claims made against them. We evaluate such claims when they arise to determine whether the claims are valid or infringed by our operations and whether it would be more effective to obtain a license or dispute that any infringement is occurring. We have at times in the past obtained licenses from parties claiming to hold patents that they contended were infringed by our services. For example, in June 2008, we settled a lawsuit filed by Ronald A. Katz Technology Licensing, L.P. against three conferencing service providers, including us, alleging patent infringement relating to our automated conferencing services and paid Katz for a non-exclusive, fully paid license and release pursuant to this settlement. We have also received a letter from an affiliate of j2Global Communications, Inc. offering the license of certain of j2 Global’s patents and informing us of the existence and potential applicability of those patents on certain of our PGiSend services. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we are unable to predict the outcome of any infringement proceedings or claims, and an adverse outcome could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We ultimately may not prevail on any such claims and any claiming parties may have significantly greater resources than we have to pursue litigation of these types of claims. Any infringement claim, whether with or without merit, could: be time consuming and a diversion to management; result in costly litigation; cause delays in introducing new services or enhancements; and result in costly royalty or licensing agreements. If a successful claim is made against us and we fail to develop non-infringing technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Government Regulation If our services are subject to further government regulations applicable to traditional telecommunications service providers, our ability to deliver our services could be adversely impacted and our results of operations could be impaired. Our business is affected by regulatory decisions, trends and policies made by international, federal and state telecommunications regulatory agencies, including the FCC and state public service or utility commissions, as well as state taxing authorities. We do not believe that our enhanced information services are subject to the same regulations as those applicable to traditional telecommunications service providers in the United States. However, it is possible that regulatory authorities may take a different position and may seek to require us to submit to traditional telecommunications carrier regulation under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. For example, on June 30, 2008, the FCC issued an order ruling that audio conferencing providers must contribute directly to the federal USF on a prospective basis. In accordance with the FCC rules, since August 1, 2008, we have filed quarterly and annual reports of revenues of certain of our conferencing subsidiaries with the USAC and we make contributions to USF and recover those contributions from applicable PGiMeet customers. The extent to which our services are viewed as the provision of telecommunications rather than as an offering of enhanced information services will affect our USF contribution payments, as well as the federal regulations with which we must comply. It is possible that state regulatory authorities may also seek to require us to submit to traditional telecommunications carrier regulation under various state laws and that state taxing authorities may similarly attempt to subject our PGiMeet solutions to their telecommunications excise tax statutes. For example, we accrued approximately $4.0 million in the second quarter of 2008 in connection with one such state’s telecommunications excise tax statutes. It is too early to predict how regulatory requirements may affect customer demand for our PGiMeet solutions or our existing or future competitors, as well as whether regulatory or taxing authorities will 17 impose additional requirements, regulations, charges or taxes on the provision of certain of our services. Although we use reasonable efforts to monitor applicable regulatory requirements, if we fail to comply with any applicable government regulations, or if we were required to submit to the jurisdiction of state government authorities as providers of traditional telecommunications services, we could become subject to additional reporting and compliance obligations and/or could be subject to litigation, fines, forfeitures, taxes, regulatory surcharge remittance requirements or other penalties arising from any noncompliance. Subjecting our services to these regulations would increase our operating costs and could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulatory and legislative changes may discourage our customers from using some of our services and could adversely impact our results of operations. Regulatory and legislative changes have imposed, or could impose, additional restrictions that may impact our business, including the passage of federal, state, local and international laws, rules and regulations relating to unsolicited fax advertising, telemarketing, spam and data privacy. For example, the TCPA and associated FCC rules prohibit the sending of unsolicited fax advertisements and proscribe certain telemarketing practices. Other federal laws implemented by the FTC also substantially regulate telemarketing, including the establishment of a nationwide “do not call” registry for residential and wireless telephone numbers. The Can Spam law places certain requirements on senders of commercial email, including requiring senders to honor opt-out requests and banning false and deceptive headers and subject lines. In addition to federal laws and regulations, numerous state laws and regulations govern such activities. Many states and foreign jurisdictions have passed laws requiring notification to consumers when there is a security breach of personal data, including credit card and other personally identifiable information. Failure to comply with any applicable data privacy laws could subject us to lawsuits, fines, criminal penalties, statutory damages, adverse publicity and other losses that could harm our business. Further, any failure by us to protect our users’ privacy and data could result in a loss of user confidence in our services and ultimately in a loss of users, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, to the extent we are considered a “business associate” under HIPAA or the recent HITECH Act changes, violations of these rules could subject us to criminal and civil penalties, as well as possible contractual penalties, tort remedies and other losses that could harm our business. To the extent we are not subject to these rules, we may be subject to the FTC Health Breach Notification Rule to the extent we are considered a “PHR-related entity” or “third party service provider” under such rule, violations of which would be treated as unfair and deceptive acts or practices. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations could have an adverse impact on the volume of fax, voice and email messages sent utilizing our PGiSend solutions. Although we believe we comply with laws and regulations applicable to us, we could nevertheless be subject to litigation, fines, losses or other penalties under such laws and regulations. Risks Related to International Operations and Expansion There are risks inherent in international operations that could hinder our international growth strategy. Our ability to achieve future success will depend in part on the expansion of our international operations. For example, we are currently in the process of forming subsidiaries in India and China. Conducting our business internationally presents numerous inherent difficulties and risks that could prevent us from selling our services in other countries or hinder our expansion once we have established international operations, including, among other things, the following: burdensome regulatory requirements and unexpected changes in these requirements; export restrictions and controls relating to technology; data privacy laws that may apply to the transmission of our customers’ data to the United States; tariffs and other trade barriers; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations including utilizing foreign telecommunication providers; 18 localization of our services, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses; accounting (including managing internal control over financial reporting in our non-U.S. subsidiaries), tax and legal complexities arising from international operations; longer accounts receivable payment cycles and collection difficulties; political and economic instability, including terrorist activity and war; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; potential difficulties in transferring funds generated overseas to the U.S. in a tax efficient manner; seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe and other parts of the world; and potentially adverse tax consequences. We have experienced, and will likely continue to experience, losses from fluctuations in currency exchange rates. A risk inherent in our international operations is the exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We conduct business in 24 countries with approximately 41% of our consolidated net revenues and 35% of our operating expenses generated in countries outside the United States. As a result, we may experience material losses in revenues and earnings from fluctuations in foreign currencies. For example, current global economic conditions have caused extreme and unprecedented volatility in foreign currency exchange rates, which we estimate negatively impacted our consolidated revenues by approximately $11.6 million in the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008. We anticipate that such fluctuations will continue to impact our financial results. We cannot predict when this volatility will cease or the extent of its impact on our future financial results. We typically denominate foreign transactions in foreign currencies and have not engaged in hedging transactions, although we may engage in hedging transactions from time to time in the future relating to foreign currency exchange rates. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 