ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We may from time to time make written or oral statements that contain forward-looking information. However, our actual results may differ materially from our expectations, statements or projections. The following risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ from our expectations, statements or projections. 15 GENERAL FACTORS We have a history of operating losses and have used increasing amounts of cash available for operations. We have a history of operating losses, and have used increasing amounts of cash to fund our operating activities over the years. In 2005, 2006 and 2007, we had operating losses of $2.3 million, $3.6 million and $4.4 million, respectively. Cash used in operations in 2005, 2006 and 2007 was $1.7 million, $1.6 million and $2.6 million, respectively. Despite selling a significant portion of our Comverge investment in December 2007 and receiving proceeds (net of transaction costs) of approximately $28.4 million and raising approximately $6.9 million (approximately $6.0 million net of transaction costs) in 2007 from the private placement of our Convertible Debentures, we have utilized a significant portion of those funds in our recent acquisition and investment activity. As described under the caption “Recent Developments” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” the market value of our investment in Comverge has fallen significantly since December 31, 2007 (to approximately $21.9 million as of March 20, 2008). In addition, we continue to aggressively pursue additional investments. While we currently have enough cash on hand to fund our operations for the next 12 months, we may need additional funds to fund the investment and acquisition activity we wish to undertake. We do not know if such funds will be available if needed on terms that we consider acceptable. Should the market value of our Comverge shares remain at their depressed level or continue to drop, we may have to limit or adjust our investment/acquisition strategy or sell some of our Comverge shares or other assets in order to continue to pursue our corporate goals. We depend on key management for the success of our business. Our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management team and other key personnel. In particular, our success depends on the continued efforts of John A. Moore, our CEO, William J. McMahon, CEO of CoaLogix/SCR-Tech, Benny Sela, CEO of DSIT and other key employees. The loss of the services of any key employee could materially harm our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Although to date we have been successful in retaining the services of senior management and have entered into employment agreements with them, members of our senior management may terminate their employment agreements without cause and with notice periods ranging up to 90 days. We may also not be able to locate or employ on acceptable terms qualified replacements for our senior management or key employees if their services were no longer available. Loss of the services of a few key employees could harm our operations. We depend on our key management, technical employees and sales personnel. The loss of certain managers could diminish our ability to develop and maintain relationships with customers and potential customers. The loss of certain technical personnel could harm our ability to meet development and implementation schedules. The loss of key sales personnel could have a negative effect on sales to certain current customers. Most of our significant employees are bound by confidentiality and non-competition agreements. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, train and retain other highly qualified technical and managerial personnel. If we fail to attract or retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel in the future, our business could be disrupted. A failure to integrate our new management may adversely affect us. In November 2007, we acquired SCR-Tech and its entire management team. Any failure to effectively integrate SCR-Tech’s new management into our controls, systems and procedures could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 16 Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance, public disclosure and financial accounting standards may result in additional expenses and affect our reported results of operations. Keeping informed of, and in compliance with, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, public disclosure and accounting standards, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as new and proposed SEC regulations and accounting standards, has required an increased amount of management attention and external resources. Compliance with such requirements may result in increased general and administrative expenses and an increased allocation of management time and attention to compliance activities. We may not be able to successfully integrate companies which we may invest in or acquire in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Our strategy is to continue to expand in the future, including through acquisitions. Integrating acquisitions is often costly, and we may not be able to successfully integrate our acquired companies with our existing operations without substantial costs, delays or other adverse operational or financial consequences. Integrating our acquired companies involves a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our business, including: · failure of the acquired companies to achieve the results we expect; · inability to retain key personnel of the acquired companies; · dilution of existing stockholders; · potential disruption of our ongoing business activities and distraction of our management; · difficulties in retaining business relationships with suppliers and customers of the acquired companies; · difficulties in coordinating and integrating overall business strategies, sales and marketing, and research and development efforts; and · the difficulty of establishing and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, including accounting controls and procedures. If any of our acquired companies suffers customer dissatisfaction or performance problems, the same could adversely affect the reputation of our group of companies and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Moreover, any significant acquisition could require substantial use of our capital and may require significant debt or equity financing. We cannot provide any assurance as to the availability or terms of any such financing or its effect on our liquidity and capital resources. We incur substantial costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses in connection with our reporting requirements. Both the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and NASDAQ, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. These new rules and regulations have already increased our legal and financial compliance costs and the amount of time and effort we devote to compliance activities. We expect these rules and regulations to further increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make compliance and other activities more time-consuming and costly. Further, due to increased regulations, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We have attempted to address some of these attraction and retention issues by offering contractual indemnification agreements to our directors and executive officers, but this may not be sufficient. We continue to regularly monitor and evaluate developments with respect to these new rules with our legal counsel, but we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. 17 RISKS RELATED TO SCR-TECH SCR-Tech has incurred significant net losses since inception and may never achieve sustained profitability. SCR-Tech has incurred net losses of $2.6 million, $2.5 million and $0.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. As of December 31, 2007, it had an accumulated deficit of approximately $9.7 million. We believe that SCR-Tech will be profitable in 2008; however, we can provide no assurance that SCR-Tech will generate sufficient revenues to allow it to become profitable or to sustain profitability. SCR-Tech has a limited operating history SCR-Tech has completed only a limited number of SCR cleaning and regeneration projects since it commenced commercial operations in March 2003. Thus SCR-Tech does not have a long-term operational history sufficient to allow us to determine whether it can successfully operate its business under differing environments and conditions or at any level of sustained profitability. The size of the market for SCR-Tech’s business is uncertain. SCR-Tech offers SCR catalyst cleaning, rejuvenation and regeneration, as well as SCR system management and consulting services. The size and growth rate for this market will ultimately be determined by a number of factors, including environmental regulations and their enforcement, the growth in the use of SCR systems to reduce NOx and other pollutants, the length of operation of SCR systems without the need for cleaning, the differences, if any, in the accounting and rate-base effect of using regenerated SCR catalyst as compared to new SCR catalyst as adopted or approved by applicable federal and state regulatory authorities, rejuvenation or regeneration, the expansion of warranty coverage from SCR catalyst OEMs, the cost of new SCR catalyst, and other factors, most of which are beyond the control of SCR-Tech. There is limited historical evidence in the United States as to the cycle of replacement, cleaning and regeneration of SCR catalyst so as to accurately estimate the potential growth of the business. In addition, the number of times a catalyst can be regenerated is unknown, which also may affect the demand for regeneration in lieu of purchasing new catalyst. Any delay in the development of the market could significantly and adversely affect the value of SCR-Tech. SCR-Tech will be subject to vigorous competition with very large competitors that have substantially greater resources and operating histories. We are aware of one company, STEAG LLC (“Steag”), which is entering the U.S. catalyst regeneration market and we expect it to offer regeneration services in 2008. Steag is currently building a regeneration facility in North Carolina. Steag, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, is a subsidiary of a German power producer, STEAG GmbH (“Steag GmbH”). Steag GmbH is very large and has substantially greater resources than SCR-Tech or us. Competition from Steag may have a material adverse effect on our operations, including a potential reduction in operating margins and a loss of potential business. We are also aware of at least one other company, Enerfab, Inc. that provides SCR catalyst management, rejuvenation and cleaning services. We are aware of certain companies, including Cormetech and Hitachi, who have indicated an interest in offering catalyst cleaning and regeneration. There also are a number of SCR catalyst manufacturers with substantial parent companies that may seek to maintain market share by significantly reducing prices which will put pressure on our operating margins. These companies include Cormetech Inc. (owned by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries and Corning, Inc.), Argillon GmbH (formerly Siemens), BASF/ CERAM, Haldor-Topsoe, Inc. and Hitachi America. Further, if the SCR catalyst regeneration market expands as we expect, additional competitors could emerge. In addition, if our intellectual property protection is weakened, competition could more easily develop. 18 If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, or our intellectual property protection efforts are unsuccessful, others may duplicate our technology. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. Our ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology, systems designs and manufacturing processes. The ability of others to use our intellectual property could allow them to duplicate the benefits of our products and reduce our competitive advantage. We do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will issue or, in the case of patents issued, that the claims allowed are or will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or processes. Further, a patent issued covering one use of our technology may not be broad enough to cover uses of that technology in other business areas. In this regard, a significant portion of the patents relied upon by SCR-Tech were acquired from third parties. Even if all our patent applications are issued and are sufficiently broad, they may be challenged or invalidated. We could incur substantial costs in prosecuting patent and other intellectual property infringement suits and defending the validity of our patents and other intellectual property. While we have attempted to safeguard and maintain our property rights, we do not know whether we have been or will be completely successful in doing so. These actions could place our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights at risk and could result in the loss of patent, trademark or other intellectual property rights protection for the products, systems and services on which our business strategy partly depends. We rely, to a significant degree, on contractual provisions to protect our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. These trade secrets cannot be protected by patent protection. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Our trade secrets may also be known without breach of such agreements or may be independently developed by competitors. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products and services if these claims are successful. We also may incur significant expenses in affirmatively protecting our intellectual property rights. Our competitors may independently develop or patent technologies or processes that are equivalent or superior to ours. In recent years, there has been significant litigation involving patents and other intellectual property rights in many technology-related industries and we believe our industry has a significant amount of patent activity. Third parties may claim that the technology or intellectual property that we incorporate into or use to develop, manufacture or provide our current and future products, systems or services infringe, induce or contribute to the infringement of their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to infringe, induce or contribute to the infringement of those intellectual property rights and may be required to obtain a license to use those rights. We may also be required to engage in costly efforts to design our products, systems and services around the intellectual property rights of others. The intellectual property rights of others may cover some of our technology, products, systems and services. In addition, the scope and validity of any particular third party patent may be subject to significant uncertainty. Litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming, and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements or to indemnify our customers. However, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. Any inability on our part to obtain needed licenses could delay or prevent the development, manufacture and sale of our products, systems or services. We may also be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development, manufacture and sale of our products, systems or services. 19 We also may be required to incur significant time and expense in pursuing claims against companies we believe are infringing our intellectual property rights. The complexity of our technology and the nature of intellectual property litigation would make it expensive and potentially difficult to prove that a competitor is in fact infringing on our intellectual property rights, but we may nonetheless find it necessary to commence such litigation to protect our rights and future business opportunities. We can offer no assurance as to the outcome of any such litigation if it were to occur. SCR-Tech’s business is subject to customer concentration. SCR-Tech offers SCR catalyst cleaning, rejuvenation and regeneration, as well as SCR system management and consulting services to coal-fired power plants. Some of the utilities operating these plants are exceptionally large and operate a number of such power plants. Thus, one or more large utilities could provide a very large order or orders to SCR-Tech which likely would result in one or more such utilities providing most of the orders and revenues for SCR-Tech for a particular quarterly or annual period. During fiscal 2007, four customers represented more than 90% of our revenue. During fiscal 2006, one customer represented approximately 34% of our revenue and five customers represented approximately 92% of our revenue for such period. Although such large orders could prove extremely beneficial to SCR-Tech by providing a large and consistent source of orders and revenues without the expense of marketing to a number of smaller customers, SCR-Tech could become highly dependent on a small number of large utilities for its business. In such event, the loss of a particular customer would have a much greater adverse effect on SCR-Tech than the loss of a smaller customer. This also may result in significant swings in orders and revenues on a quarterly basis. SCR-Tech cannot at this time determine the likelihood or extent of such future customer concentration. Risk of changes in government regulation. Our business is significantly dependent on the nature and level of government regulation of emissions. Without government regulation of coal-fired power generation, SCR catalyst would not be used by utilities, there would be no need for utilities to acquire, clean or regenerate SCR catalyst, and SCR-Tech would have no business purpose. Further, changes in or adverse interpretations of governmental accounting or rate-based emissions regulations also could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although government regulation of emissions has become increasingly stringent in recent years, the growing costs associated with such regulations may limit the level of increase and scope of emissions requirements, which could limit the potential growth of our target markets. Any easing of governmental emissions requirements or the growth rate of such requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business. SCR-Tech’s business is subject to potential seasonality. Because some utilities and IPPs currently operate their SCR units only during the “ozone season” (May 1 — September 30), SCR-Tech’s business may be more limited than if SCR units were required to operate on a continual basis. The NOx SIP Call was configured to impose a summer ozone season NOx limitation in more than 19 states and the District of Columbia. During this period, utilities and IPPs seek to operate their SCR catalyst at maximum capacity so as to reduce NOx emissions. During non-ozone season periods, most operators currently have limited (if any) requirements to run their SCR systems. Unless and until such regulations are tightened, much of SCR-Tech’s business may be concentrated during the ozone season each year. This will likely result in less business than if SCR units were required to be operated throughout the year and may also result in quarters of relatively higher cash flow and earnings and quarters where cash flow and earnings may be minimal. These potential fluctuations in revenues and cash flow during a year may be significant and could materially impact our quarterly earnings and cash flow. This may have a material adverse effect on the perception of our business and the market price for our common stock. 20 SCR-Tech does not own its regeneration facilities and it is subject to risks inherent in leasing the site of its operations. SCR-Tech does not own its regeneration site; instead it leases it from Clariant Corporation. Although we believe the lease terms are favorable, the dependence on Clariant and the site could subject SCR-Tech to increased risk in the event Clariant experiences financial setbacks or loses its right to operate the site. This risk is heightened because the site is a Federal Superfund site (under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (“CERCLA”), which increases the risks that the site ultimately could be shut down or that Clariant will be financially unable to continue its ownership of the site. It may be difficult to relocate to another site on a timely or cost-effective basis, and SCR-Tech’s business could be negatively impacted by any problems with continuing to conduct its operations at its current site. SCR-Tech could be subject to environmental risks as a result of the operation of its business and the location of its facilities. The operation of SCR-Tech’s business and the nature of its assets create various environmental risks. SCR-Tech leases its site for operations at a property listed on the National Priority List as a Federal Superfund site. Five CERCLA Areas (those areas of concern identified under the CERCLA program) are identified on the property, and while SCR-Tech does not lease any property identified as a CERCLA Area, one such CERCLA Area has resulted in contamination of groundwater flowing underneath one of the buildings leased by SCR-Tech. Although SCR-Tech has indemnification from Clariant Corporation for any environmental liability arising prior to the operation of SCR-Tech’s business at the site, we can provide no assurance that such indemnification will be sufficient or that SCR-Tech would be protected from an environmental claim from the nature of the site. In addition, the operation of SCR-Tech’s business involves removal of hazardous wastes from catalyst and the use of significant chemical materials. As a result, SCR-Tech could be subject to potential liability resulting from such operations. To date, neither Acorn nor SCR-Tech has been identified as a potential responsible party to such environmental risks, nor have any amounts been recorded to accrue for these potential exposures. We likely will be required to make significant capital expenditures to expand SCR-Tech’s production facilities or for other purposes; we may require additional capital for such purposes. SCR-Tech does not own its regeneration site; instead it leases it from Clariant Corporation, the U.S. subsidiary of a Switzerland-based public company. We believe this site is sufficient to meet SCR-Tech’s anticipated production requirements through mid 2008. However, in order to meet anticipated demand for increased orders for SCR regeneration services in 2008, we expect to incur capital expenditure costs of $1.0 million to $1.5 million in 2008. In addition, we believe we will need to incur approximately $5.0 million of additional capital expenditures commencing in 2008 to construct a second regeneration plant to meet anticipated demand for regeneration services in 2009. Although we believe SCR-Tech’s present site allows for building additional regeneration facilities, including a doubling of capacity in the current facility, such construction could require significantly more capital expenditures than anticipated. Moreover, because of necessary permitting and time for construction, we can provide no assurance that SCR-Tech could meet the demands from an unanticipated rapid increase in orders in a timely manner. Any failure to timely fulfill such orders could have an adverse impact on SCR-Tech’s business. Although we believe our available non-restricted cash of approximately $19.6 at December 31, 2007 is sufficient to fund any currently anticipated capital requirements for SCR-Tech and to otherwise fund our current operations through 2008, we can provide no assurance that we will not require additional capital. Moreover, if we incur the expected capital expenditures to expand the capacity of SCR-Tech, but the market does not develop as we expect or increased competition results in loss of significant business, we may not generate additional revenue from such expenses. This could adversely impact our financial position. Moreover, other unanticipated expenses for SCR-Tech, such as litigation or other costs for protecting intellectual property rights or as a result of a significant corporate transaction could result in the need for additional capital. These additional funding requirements may be significant, and funds may not be available when required or may be available only on terms unsatisfactory to us. 21 Beyond December 31, 2008, our cash requirements will depend on many factors, including but not limited to the market acceptance of our product and service offerings, the ability of SCR-Tech to generate significant cash flow, the rate of expansion of our sales and marketing activities, the rate of expansion of our production capacity, our ability to manage selling, general and administrative expenditures and the timing and extent of SCR-Tech related research and development projects. In addition, we continue to actively pursue business opportunities, including but not limited to, mergers, acquisitions or other strategic arrangements. Such strategic opportunities could require the use of additional cash, reducing our available capital prior to December 31, 2008, or could require additional equity or debt financing. The nature and amount of any such financing or the use of any capital in any such transaction cannot be predicted and will depend on the terms and conditions of the particular transaction. Certain of SCR-Tech’s capital equipment is unique to our business and would be difficult and expensive to repair or replace. Certain of the capital equipment used in the services performed by SCR-Tech has been developed and made specifically for us and would be difficult to repair or replace if it were to become damaged or stop working. In addition, certain of our equipment is not readily available from multiple vendors. Consequently, any damage to or breakdown of our equipment at a time when we are regenerating large amounts of SCR catalyst at SCR-Tech may have a material adverse impact on our business. SCR-Tech may be subject to warranty claims from its customers. SCR-Tech typically provides limited warranties to its customers relating to the level of success of its catalyst cleaning and regeneration services. In the event SCR-Tech is unable to perform a complete regeneration of an SCR catalyst, SCR-Tech may be required to re-perform a regeneration or repay a portion of the fees earned for the regeneration efforts. SCR-Tech also may be required to provide warranties with respect to its other SCR catalyst services provided to its customers. Since SCR-Tech has only a limited operating history in North America, it is not possible to determine the amount or extent of any potential warranty claims that SCR-Tech may incur. There is a risk that any such claims could be substantial and could affect the profitability of SCR-Tech and the financial condition of the Company. The Company does maintain a limited warranty claim liability; however, should the amount of any potential warranty claims be incurred at levels higher than the warranty liability, the profitability and financial condition of the Company could be impacted. SCR-Tech is dependent on third parties to perform certain testing required to confirm the success of its regeneration. In connection with the regeneration of SCR catalyst, SCR-Tech generally must have an independent company provide testing services to determine the level of success of regeneration. Currently there are a limited number of companies providing this service. If SCR-Tech is unable to obtain this service on a cost-effective basis, SCR-Tech may not be able to perform its regeneration services. Significant price increases in key materials may reduce SCR-Tech’s gross margins and profitability of SCR-Tech’s regeneration of SCR Catalyst. The prices of various chemicals used to regenerate SCR Catalyst can be volatile. If the long-term costs of these materials were to increase significantly, we would attempt to reduce material usage or find substitute materials. If these efforts were not successful or if these cost increases could not be reflected in our price to customers, then our gross margins and profitability of regenerating SCR Catalyst would be reduced and our ability to operate SCR-Tech profitably could be compromised. 22 Risks of purchasing used SCR catalyst. SCR-Tech’s primary business involves the cleaning and regenerating of customer-owned SCR catalyst. In certain instances, however, SCR-Tech may purchase used or “spent” catalyst from utilities for regeneration, as when, for example, a utility wishes to avoid the costs and potential hazardous waste issues associated with the disposal of used or “spent” catalyst. SCR-Tech may purchase SCR catalyst for a nominal sum and then regenerate such catalyst for immediate sale, or may purchase spent SCR catalyst on an opportunistic basis for future regeneration and sale. The purchase of spent SCR catalyst involves potential risks to SCR-Tech. For example, spent SCR catalyst includes significant hazardous waste, and unlike the regeneration of customer-owned SCR catalyst, the purchase of spent SCR catalyst requires SCR-Tech to take ownership or “title” to the SCR catalyst, which may potentially increase SCR-Tech’s environmental risk exposure. Furthermore, if SCR-Tech cannot find a customer to purchase the regenerated catalyst, then SCR-Tech must either store the spent catalyst, subject to the inherent risk of holding catalyst which has not been regenerated and contains hazardous waste, or incur significant costs to dispose of the spent catalyst in a manner which complies with the strict requirements of applicable environmental laws. In addition, the sale of SCR catalyst may expose SCR-Tech to risks not inherent in the cleaning and regeneration of SCR catalyst, including product liability claims. It is unclear as to the amount of SCR catalyst which SCR-Tech may purchase, but it is possible such purchases ultimately may be substantial, and may significantly increase the risk profile of SCR-Tech’s business. Many of the risks of our business have only limited insurance coverage and many of our business risks are uninsurable. Our business operations are subject to potential environmental, product liability, employee and other risks. Although we have insurance to cover some of these risks, the amount of this insurance is limited and includes numerous exceptions and limitations to coverage. Further, no insurance is available to cover certain types of risks, such as acts of God, war, terrorism, major economic and business disruptions and similar events. In the event we were to suffer a significant environmental, product liability, employee or other claim in excess of our insurance or a loss or damages relating to an uninsurable risk, our financial condition could be negatively impacted. In addition, the cost of our insurance has increased substantially in recent years and may prove to be prohibitively expensive, thus making it impractical to obtain insurance. This may result in the need to abandon certain business activities or subject ourselves to the risks of uninsured operations. RISKS RELATED TO DSIT SOLUTIONS Failure to accurately forecast costs of fixed-priced contracts could reduce our margins. When working on a fixed-price basis, we undertake to deliver software or integrated hardware/software solutions to a customer’s specifications or requirements for a particular project. The profits from these projects are primarily determined by our success in correctly estimating and thereafter controlling project costs. Costs may in fact vary substantially as a result of various factors, including underestimating costs, difficulties with new technologies and economic and other changes that may occur during the term of the contract. If, for any reason, our costs are substantially higher than expected, we may incur losses on fixed-price contracts. Hostilities in the Middle East region may slow down the Israeli hi-tech market and may harm our Israeli operations; our Israeli operations may be negatively affected by the obligations of our personnel to perform military service. Our software consulting and development services segment is currently conducted in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect DSIT. Any increase in hostilities in the Middle East involving Israel could weaken the Israeli hi-tech market, which may result in a significant deterioration of the results of our Israeli operations. In addition, an increase in hostilities in Israel could cause serious disruption to our Israeli operations if acts associated with such hostilities result in any serious damage to our offices or those of our customers or harm to our personnel. 23 Many of our employees in Israel are obligated to perform military reserve duty. In the event of severe unrest or other conflict, one or more of our key employees could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. In the past, there have been numerous call-ups of military reservists to active duty, and it is possible that there will be additional call-ups in the future. Our Israeli operations could be disrupted as a result of such call-ups for military service. Exchange rate fluctuations could increase the cost of our Israeli operations. A majority of DSIT’s sales are based on contracts or orders which are in U.S dollars or Euros or are in New Israeli Shekels (“NIS”) linked to the U.S. dollar. At the same time, most of DSIT’s expenses are denominated in NIS (primarily labor costs) and are not linked to any foreign currency. While the dollar value of the revenues of our operations in Israel will increase if the dollar is devalued in relation to the NIS, the net effect of such devaluation is that DSIT’s costs in dollar terms increase more than our revenues. The weakening of the dollar relative to the NIS has a net negative impact on DSIT’s operations. During the period from January 1, 2008 to March 20, 2008, the dollar lost 11.6% of its value relative to the NIS. DSIT is currently considering ways to control is exposures to exchange rate fluctuations, however, we can provide no assurance that such controls will be implemented successfully. One of our major customers has a history of operating deficits and may implement cost-cutting measures that may have a material adverse effect on us. In 2007, 19% of DSIT’s sales (17% in both 2006 and 2005, respectively) were related to the Clalit Health Fund (“Clalit”). Clalit is Israel’s largest HMO organization and has a history of running at a deficit, which in the past has required numerous cost cutting plans and periodic assistance from the Israeli government. Should Clalit have to institute additional cost cutting measures in the future, which may include restructuring of its terms of payment, this could have a material adverse effect on the performance of DSIT. We are substantially dependent on a small number of customers and the loss of one or more of these customers may cause revenues and cash flow to decline In 2007, 65% of DSIT’s sales (63% and 53% in 2006 and 2005, respectively) were concentrated in four customers (Israel Defense Ministry, Applied Materials Israel Ltd., RAFAEL Armament Development Authority Ltd. and Clalit). A significant reduction of orders from any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the performance of DSIT. We are dependent on meeting milestones to provide cash flow for operations. In August 2005, we sold our outsourcing business, which in the past provided our Israeli operations with a steady cash flow stream, and, in conjunction with bank lines of credit, helped to finance our Israeli operations. Our present operations, as we are currently structured, place a greater reliance on our meeting project milestones in order to generate cash flow to finance our operations. Should we encounter difficulties in meeting significant project milestones, resulting cash flow difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our operations. If we are unable to keep pace with rapid technological change, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may suffer. Some of our solutions are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and industry standards and technological obsolescence. Our competitiveness and future success depends on our ability to keep pace with changing technologies and industry standards on a timely and cost-effective basis. A fundamental shift in technologies could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position. Our failure to react to changes in existing technologies could materially delay our development of new products, which could result in technological obsolescence, decreased revenues, and/or a loss of market share to competitors. To the extent that we fail to keep pace with technological change, our revenues and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 24 We must at times provide significant guarantees in order to secure projects. Some of the projects we perform require significant performance and/or bank guarantees. In DSIT’s current state, it may not always be able to supply such guarantees without financial assistance from Acorn. If Acorn needs to provide financial guarantees for DSIT, Acorn may not have sufficient funds available to it invest in other emerging ventures or take advantage of opportunities available to us in a timely manner. RISKS RELATED TO OUR PAKETERIA INVESTMENT Paketeria’s business plan is predicated on projected rapid growth in its network of franchised stores. If Paketeria fails to effectively manage this growth, its business and operating results could be harmed. Additionally they could be forced to incur significant expenditures to address the additional operational and control requirements of this growth. Paketeria’s business plan is predicated on projected rapid growth in its operations, which will place significant demands on its management, operational and financial infrastructure. If Paketeria does not effectively manage this growth, the quality of its services could suffer, which could negatively affect its operating results. To effectively manage this growth, Paketeria will need to continue to improve its operational, financial, and management controls and its reporting systems and procedures. These system enhancements and improvements could require Paketeria to make significant capital expenditures and an allocation of valuable management resources. If the improvements are not implemented successfully, Paketeria’s ability to manage growth may be impaired and could force it to make significant additional expenditures to address these issues, expenditures that could harm its financial position. Paketeria needs to raise funds to finance its planned activities. Though Paketeria has successfully raised approximately $2.5 million in a private placement in 2007 and has recently registered on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, Paketeria does not currently have enough cash to finance its planned activities in 2008 as it is continuing to raise funds from its offering on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. We have agreed to lend Paketeria up to €1 million to bridge its finances during the period of its selling shares on the Frankfurt Exchange (Up through March 20, 2008, we have loaned approximately $750,000 to Paketeria). In the event that Paketeria is unable to sell shares on the Frankfurt exchange and raise funds from new investors, our investment and loans may be at risk (See “Recent Developments”). In the event that Paketeria is unable to obtain additional financing for its operations, we may be required to advance additional funds to Paketeria to maintain its viability and to protect our investment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR SECURITIES Our share price may decline due to the large number of shares of our Common Stock eligible for future sale in the public market including the shares of the selling security holders. A substantial number of shares of our Common Stock are, or could upon exercise of options or warrants, become eligible for sale in the public market as described below. Sales of a substantial number of shares of ourCommon Stock in the public market, or the possibility of these sales, may adversely affect our stock price. As of December 31, 2007, 11,134,795 shares of our Common Stock were issued and outstanding. As of December 31, 2007 we had 986,506 warrants outstanding and exercisable with a weighted average exercise price of $3.89 and 1,396,998 options outstanding and exercisable with a weighted average exercise price of $2.96 per share, which if exercised for cash would result in the issuance of an additional 2,383,504 shares of Common Stock. Of the options and warrants noted above, there were 1,246,998 options and 986,506 warrants which are in-the-money at December 31, 2007. 25 The market price of our Common Stock will likely be affected by fluctuations in the market price of the common stock of Comverge. A significant portion of the assets set forth on our balance sheet is comprised of the fair market value of our investment in Comverge shares. As described below under “Recent Developments,” the share price of Comverge’s common stock has fallen significantly since December 31, 2007. Due to the substantial position we hold in Comverge, the market price of our Common Stock is likely to be affected by fluctuations in the market price of the common stock of Comverge. We may be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940; if we were deemed to be an investment company we could be forced to sell our shares in Comverge at prices lower than we might otherwise obtain. Under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the rules thereunder we would be deemed to be an investment company if it is determined that the value of investment securities we own account for more than 45% of the total value of our assets. The Investment Company Act and the rules thereunder exclude from the definition of investment securities shares in companies which are majority-owned or “controlled primarily” by the issuer. We believe that until the Comverge initial public offering in April 2007, we had primary control over Comverge for purposes of application of the Investment Company Act and our Comverge holdings were therefore excluded from the definition of investment securities. However, as a result of the offering, our voting agreement with the other major Comverge shareholders was terminated. It is therefore likely that as of the closing of the initial public offering, Comverge was no longer controlled primarily by us for Investment Company Act purposes. If that were the case, then as of June 30, 2007, we would no longer be excluded from the definition of an Investment Company since the value of our investment securities would be in excess of 45% of our assets. Were we to have been deemed an investment company as a result of the Comverge IPO, we believe that we would be eligible for relief from the application of the Investment Company Act as a transient investment company under Rule 3a-2. Under Rule 3a-2, we would not be subject to the Investment Company Act provided that we have a bona fide intent to be engaged primarily, as soon as is reasonably possible (in any event within a one year period), in a business other than that of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities. Our management and Board of Directors has formulated its plans for compliance with Rule 3a-2. These include the acquisition of one or more wholly-owned, majority-owned, or primarily-controlled operating businesses. Steps in effectuating these plans may include the sale and or distribution to our shareholders of all or a portion of our Comverge shares, and/or a merger or other acquisition transaction. Our acquisition of SCR-Tech and our sale of 1,022,356 of our Comverge shares are significant steps in successfully implementing our plan. To the extent that effectuating our plan to remain exempt from the Investment Company Act requires us to sell significant additional number of Comverge shares, we may be forced to sell a significant portion of our Comverge shares during a relatively short time period could result in our selling Comverge shares sooner than we otherwise would have, at prices lower than we might otherwise have obtained. While we could request an order from the SEC to give us additional time beyond the year period allowed by Rule 3a-2 to sell and/or distribute Comverge shares and take any other action necessary to come into compliance with the Act, there is no assurance that such an order would be granted. 26 If we are unable to come into compliance with the Investment Company Act during the one year period (or any extension thereof granted to us by the SEC), we would be in violation of the Investment Company Act. Companies which fall under the Act are subject to substantial regulation concerning management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons, portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration, and other matters. We would be required to file reports with the SEC regarding various aspects of our business. The cost of such compliance would result in the Company incurring additional annual expenses. In addition, compliance with the Investment Company Act may not be consistent with the Company’s current strategy of holding primarily controlling interest in companies in which it holds interests. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 