Item 1A. Risk Factors - Risks Related to the RT and IT Solutions Segments - “We are substantially dependent on a small number of customers and the loss of one or more of these customers may cause revenues and cash flow to decline” for more information.) Proprietary Rights The customer, for whom the services are performed, generally owns the intellectual property rights resulting from our consulting and development services. We own two proprietary software packages described above - Easybill™ and OncoPro™. These packages are licensed for use by customers, while we retain ownership of the intellectual property. 3 DEMAND RESPONSE SOLUTIONS - COMVERGE INC. We are engaged in the business of providing demand response solutions, through Comverge Inc. Comverge is North America's leading provider of clean and low-cost peak electric capacity reduction, achieved through Demand Response solutions and technologies, including its patent pending fully outsourced Virtual Peaking Capacity(TM) offering. As North America's leader in Demand Response, Comverge serves over 500 clients in the electric utility industry, implementing both integrated and outsourced solution-based models for direct and price responsive load management, remote meter reading, and distributed generation monitoring. We currently have an approximate 23% equity interest in Comverge and are Comverge’s single largest stockholder. Comverge’s stockholders include Nth Power, EnerTech Capital, E.ON Venture Partners GmbH, Ridgewood Capital, Easton Hunt Capital Partners, L.P., Norsk Hydro Technology Ventures, Rockport Capital Partners, Partners for Growth, the Shell Internet Ventures affiliate of Royal Dutch/Shell Group, and Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. Comverge designs, develops and markets a full spectrum of products, services and turnkey solutions to electric utilities and transmission and distribution companies that provide capacity during periods of peak electricity demand and allow their residential and commercial customers to conserve energy. These Demand Response solutions allow Comverge’s customers to reduce usage or “shed load” during peak usage periods, such as the summer air conditioning season, thereby reducing or eliminating the need to buy costly additional power on the spot market, or invest in new peaking generation capacity. Demand Response solutions are cost-effective and environmentally superior to building new generation capabilities. In addition to Demand Response solutions, Comverge also offers a combination of intelligent hardware and a suite of software products, which, together or separately, help customers address energy usage issues through data communications and analysis, real-time pricing and integrated billing and reporting. Comverge’s two-way data communications solutions allow utilities to gather, transmit, verify and analyze real-time usage information, and can be used for automated meter reading, support time-of-use metering, theft detection, remote connect/disconnect and other value-added services. Comverge’s principal offices are located in East Hanover, New Jersey and Atlanta, Georgia. In addition, Comverge operates satellite offices in Newark, California, Pensacola, Florida and Tel Aviv, Israel. SUPER SERVICES MARKET - PAKETERIA GmbH We are engaged in the “Super Services Market” business through our 33% equity interest in Paketeria GmbH. In August 2006, we made our first investment (€600,000 or approximately $776.000) in Paketeria GmbH followed by a second investment (€320,000 or approximately $419,000) in October 2006. As a result of these investments, we currently own approximately 33% of Paketeria with options to acquire a controlling interest by August 2007. Paketeria GmbH, a company registered in Germany and headquartered in Berlin, is a retail chain store operating in a unique “Super Services Market” format. The stores provide eBay drop shop, post and parcels, office supplies, photo processing, photocopy, printer cartridge refilling, and Internet pharmacy services in Germany. Paketeria was established to take advantage of the privatization and subsequent substantial reduction in retail outlets of the German post office, which has stranded many communities without convenient access to postal services. Since the beginning of 2006, Paketeria has doubled in size to four company owned stores and 60 franchised stores. 4 Paketeria’s principal offices are located in Berlin, Germany. Paketeria’s stores and franchises are located throughout Germany with a concentration in the area in and around Berlin. BACKLOG As of December 31, 2006, our backlog of work to be completed was $1.9 million, $1.4 million of which related to our RT segment and $0.5 million of which related to our IT segment. We estimate that we will perform our entire backlog in both of our reporting segments in 2007. EMPLOYEES At December 31, 2006, we employed a total of 70 people, including 53 in engineering and technical support, 1 in marketing and sales, and 16 in management, administration and finance. A total of 69 of our employees are employed by dsIT and are based in Israel. Our only employee in the United States is our CEO and President. We consider our relationship with our employees to be satisfactory. We have no collective bargaining agreements with any of our employees. However, with regard to our Israeli activities, certain provisions of the collective bargaining agreements between the Israeli Histadrut (General Federation of Labor in Israel) and the Israeli Coordination Bureau of Economic Organizations (including the Industrialists Association) are applicable by order of the Israeli Ministry of Labor. These provisions mainly concern the length of the workday, contributions to a pension fund, insurance for work-related accidents, procedures for dismissing employees, determination of severance pay and other conditions of employment. We generally provide our Israeli employees with benefits and working conditions beyond the required minimums. Israeli law generally requires severance pay upon the retirement or death of an employee or termination of employment without due cause. Furthermore, Israeli employees and employers are required to pay specified amounts to the National Insurance Institute, which administers Israel’s social security programs. The payments to the National Insurance Institute include health tax and are approximately 5% of wages (up to a specified amount), of which the employee contributes approximately 70% and the employer approximately 30%. SEGMENT INFORMATION For additional financial information regarding our operating segments, foreign and domestic operations and sales, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 19 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We may from time to time make written or oral statements that contain forward-looking information. However, our actual results may differ materially from our expectations, statements or projections. The following risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ from our expectations, statements or projections. GENERAL FACTORS We have a history of operating losses and decreasing cash available for operations. We have a history of operating losses, and have used increasing amounts of cash to fund our operating activities over the years. In 2004, 2005 and 2006, we had operating losses of $2.5 million, $2.3 million and $3.6 million, respectively. Cash used in operations in 2004, 2005 and 2006 was $0.1 million, $1.7 million and $1.6 million, respectively. 5 Although we raised $3.2 million ($2.5 million net of transaction costs) in 2006 from the private placement of our securities, we have invested a significant portion of those funds in Paketeria. At December 31, 2006, we did not have sufficient cash available to fund our US operations for the next 12 months. As described under the caption “Recent Developments” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” we recently raised an additional $6.9 million (approximately $6.0 after transaction costs) in a private placement of convertible debentures and warrants. While this provides us with enough cash to finance our US operations for the next 12 months, we may need additional funds to fund our operating activities and acquisitions over the longer term. Should we be unsuccessful in completing additional timely transactions providing necessary liquidity, we may not have sufficient funds to finance our future US activities and strategic acquisitions over the long-term. In such event, we might need to sell some of our assets to finance these activities. For additional discussion of our liquidity position and factors that may affect our future liquidity, see the discussion under the captions “Recent Developments” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Loss of the services of a few key employees could harm our operations. We depend on our key management, technical employees and sales personnel. The loss of certain managers could diminish our ability to develop and maintain relationships with customers and potential customers. The loss of certain technical personnel could harm our ability to meet development and implementation schedules. The loss of certain sales personnel could have a negative effect on sales to certain current customers. Most of our significant employees are bound by confidentiality and non-competition agreements. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, train and retain other highly qualified technical and managerial personnel. If we fail to attract or retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel in the future, our business could be disrupted. A failure to integrate our new management may adversely affect us. We appointed a new chief financial officer and chief accounting officer in December 2005 and appointed a new president and chief executive officer in March 2006. Any failure to effectively integrate our new management and any new management controls, systems and procedures they may implement, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal controls over financial reporting and our ability to have those controls attested to by our independent registered public accounting firm. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a public company’s financial statements must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting as well as the operating effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. Our management is currently required to report on our internal controls as a required part of our annual report beginning with fiscal year 2007 and to allow our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to our internal controls as a required part of our annual report beginning with fiscal year 2008. We may have to expend significant resources during fiscal years 2007 and 2008 in developing the necessary documentation and testing procedures required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and there is a risk that we will not comply with all of the requirements. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting that we cannot remediate in a timely manner or we receive an adverse opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm with respect to our internal controls over financial reporting, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and our ability to obtain equity or debt financing could be adversely affected. 6 Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance, public disclosure and financial accounting standards may result in additional expenses and affect our reported results of operations. Keeping informed of, and in compliance with, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, public disclosure and accounting standards, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as new and proposed SEC regulations and accounting standards, has required an increased amount of management attention and external resources. Compliance with such requirements may result in increased general and administrative expenses and an increased allocation of management time and attention to compliance activities. RISKS RELATED TO THE RT AND IT SOLUTIONS SEGMENTS Failure to accurately forecast costs of fixed-priced contracts could reduce our margins. When working on a fixed-price basis, we undertake to deliver software or integrated hardware/software solutions to a customer’s specifications or requirements for a particular project. The profits from these projects are primarily determined by our success in correctly estimating and thereafter controlling project costs. Costs may in fact vary substantially as a result of various factors, including underestimating costs, difficulties with new technologies and economic and other changes that may occur during the term of the contract. If, for any reason, our costs are substantially higher than expected, we may incur losses on fixed-price contracts. Hostilities in the Middle East region may slow down the Israeli hi-tech market and may harm our Israeli operations; our Israeli operations may be negatively affected by the obligations of our personnel to perform military service. Our software consulting and development services segment is currently conducted in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect this segment of our business. Any increase in hostilities in the Middle East involving Israel could weaken the Israeli hi-tech market, which may result in a significant deterioration of the results of our Israeli operations. In addition, an increase in hostilities in Israel could cause serious disruption to our Israeli operations if acts associated with such hostilities result in any serious damage to our offices or those of our customers or harm to our personnel. Many of our employees in Israel are obligated to perform military reserve duty. In the event of severe unrest or other conflict, one or more of our key employees could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. In the past, there were numerous call-ups of military reservists to active duty, and it is possible that there will be additional call-ups in the future. Our Israeli operations could be disrupted as a result of such call-ups for military service. Exchange rate fluctuations could increase the cost of our Israeli operations. The sales in this segment stem from our Israeli operations and a significant portion of those sales are in New Israeli Shekels (“NIS”). In addition, many transactions that are linked to the dollar are settled in NIS. The dollar value of the revenues of our operations in Israel will decrease if the dollar is devalued in relation to the NIS during the period from the invoicing of a transaction to its settlement. In addition, significant portions of our expenses in those operations are in NIS, so that if the dollar is devalued in relation to the NIS, the dollar value of these expenses will increase. One of our major customers has a history of operating deficits and may implement cost-cutting measures that may have a material adverse effect on us. In 2006, 17% of dsIT’s sales (17% and 13% in 2005 and 2004, respectively) and 24% of its billed receivables at December 31, 2006 (10% at December 31, 2005) were related to Clalit. Clalit has a history of running at a deficit, which in the past has required numerous cost cutting plans and periodic assistance from the Israeli government. Should Clalit have to institute additional cost cutting measures in the future, which may include restructuring of its terms of payment, this could have a material adverse effect on the performance of dsIT. 7 We are substantially dependent on a small number of customers and the loss of one or more of these customers may cause revenues and cash flow to decline In 2006, 58% of dsIT’s sales (51% and 59% in 2005 and 2004, respectively) were concentrated in three customers (Applied Materials Israel Ltd., RAFAEL Armament Development Authority Ltd. and Clalit). A significant reduction of orders from any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the performance of dsIT. We have sold our outsourcing business, which in the past provided our Israeli operations with a steady cash flow; our Israeli operations may be hindered by future cash flow problems. In August 2005, we sold our outsourcing business, which in the past provided our Israeli operations with a steady cash flow stream, and, in conjunction with bank lines of credit, helped to finance our Israeli operations. Our present operations, as we are currently structured, places a greater reliance on our meeting project milestones in order to generate cash flow to finance our operations. Should we encounter difficulties in meeting significant project milestones, resulting cash flow difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our operations. If we are unable to keep pace with rapid technological change, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may suffer. Some of our RT and IT solutions are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and industry standards and technological obsolescence. Our competitiveness and future success depends on our ability to keep pace with changing technologies and industry standards on a timely and cost-effective basis. A fundamental shift in technologies in could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position. Our failure to react to changes in existing technologies could materially delay our development of new products, which could result in technological obsolescence, decreased revenues, and/or a loss of market share to competitors. To the extent that we fail to keep pace with technological change, our revenues and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO OUR PAKETERIA INVESTMENT Paketeria’s business plan is predicated on projected rapid growth in its network of franchised stores. If Paketeria fails to effectively manage this growth, its business and operating results could be harmed. Additionally they could be forced to incur significant expenditures to address the additional operational and control requirements of this growth. Paketeria’s business plan is predicated on projected rapid growth in its operations, which will place significant demands on its management, operational and financial infrastructure. If Paketeria does not effectively manage this growth, the quality of its services could suffer, which could negatively affect its operating results. To effectively manage this growth, Paketeria will need to continue to improve its operational, financial, and management controls and its reporting systems and procedures. These system enhancements and improvements could require Paketeria to make significant capital expenditures and an allocation of valuable management resources. If the improvements are not implemented successfully, Paketeria’s ability to manage growth may be impaired and could force it to make significant additional expenditures to address these issues, expenditures that could harm its financial position. Paketeria will need to raise funds to finance its planned activities. Paketeria does not currently have enough cash to finance its planned activities in 2007. In the event that it is unable raise these funds from new investors, we may need to make loans or additional equity investments in Paketeria from our limited financial resources to help fund its activities. (See “Recent Developments”.) 8 RISKS RELATED TO OUR SECURITIES There is only a limited trading market for our Common Stock. There is currently only a limited market for our Common Stock. Our Common Stock trades on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol “ ACFN“ with, until recently, very limited trading volume. We cannot assure you that a substantial trading market will be sustained for our Common Stock. Our share price may decline due to the large number of shares of our Common Stock eligible for future sale in the public market including the shares of the selling security holders. A substantial number of shares of our Common Stock are, or could upon exercise of options or warrants, become eligible for sale in the public market as described below. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of ourCommon Stock in the public market, or the possibility of these sales, may adversely affect our stock price. As of December 31, 2006 there were 614,039 warrants with a weighted average exercise price of $2.79 and 1,626,157 options with a weighted average exercise price of $2.46 per share, presently exercisable, which if exercised for cash would result in the issuance of an additional 2,240,196 shares of Common Stock. In addition, there were 482,668 options and 190,000 warrants that expire on or before December 31, 2007 all of which are in-the-money at December 31, 2006. The market price of our Common Stock will likely be affected by fluctuations in the market price of the common stock of Comverge. As described below under “Recent Developments,” shares of Comverge common stock have commenced trading on the Nasdaq Global Market. Due to the substantial position we hold in Comverge, the market price of our Common Stock is likely to be affected by fluctuations in the market price of the common stock of Comverge. We may be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940; if we were deemed to be an investment company we could be forced to sell our shares in Comverge at prices lower than we might otherwise obtain. Under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the rules thereunder we would be deemed to be an investment company if it is determined that the value of investment securities we own account for more than 45% of the total value of our assets. The Investment Company Act and the rules thereunder exclude from the definition of investment securities shares in companies which are majority-owned or “controlled primarily” by the issuer. Our equity holdings in Comverge currently account for substantially more than 45% of the value of our assets on a fair market value basis. We believe that until the recent Comverge initial public offering we had primary control over Comverge for purposes of application of the Investment Company Act and our Comverge holdings were therefore excluded from the definition of investment securities. However, as a result of the offering and the termination of our voting agreement with the other major Comverge shareholders, it is likely that Comverge will no longer be controlled primarily by us for Investment Company Act purposes. If we were no longer deemed to primarily control Comverge, we would no longer be excluded from the definition of an Investment Company effective June 30, 2007 since the value of our investment securities, which would now include our Comverge shares, would be in excess of 45% of our assets. 9 Were we to be deemed an investment company as a result of the Comverge IPO, we believe that we would be eligible for relief from the application of the Investment Company Act as a transient investment company under Rule 3a-2. Under Rule 3a-2, we would not be subject to the Investment Company Act provided that we have a bona fide intent to be engaged primarily, as soon as is reasonably possible (in any event within a one year period), in a business other than that of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities. Our management and Board of Directors is formulating its plans for compliance with Rule 3a-2. These plans would include the acquisition of one or more wholly-owned, majority-owned, or primarily-controlled operating businesses. Steps in effectuating these plans may include the sale and or distribution to our shareholders of all or a portion of our Comverge shares, and/or a merger or other acquisition transaction. We are subject to a lock-up period that would prevent us from being able to sell Comverge shares for six months following the completion of the Comverge initial public offering. To the extent that effectuating our plan to remain exempt from the Investment Company Act requires us to sell significant number of Comverge shares, we may have only a six month period in which to make such sales. Being forced to sell a significant portion of our Comverge shares during a relatively short time period could result in our selling Comverge shares sooner than we otherwise would have, at prices lower than we might otherwise have obtained. We may also find that we are not able to identify and acquire during the one year period a suitable operating business or businesses on terms acceptable to us. While we could request an order from the SEC to give us additional time beyond the year period allowed by Rule 3a-2 to sell and/or distribute Comverge shares and take any other action necessary to come into compliance with the Act, there is no assurance that such an order would be granted. If we are unable to come into compliance with the Investment Company Act during the one year period (or any extension thereof granted to us by the SEC), we would be in violation of the Investment Company Act. Companies which fall under the Act are subject to substantial regulation concerning management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons, portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration, and other matters. We would be required to file reports with the SEC regarding various aspects of our business. The cost of such compliance would result in the Company incurring additional annual expenses. In addition, compliance with the Investment Company Act may not be consistent with the Company’s current strategy of holding primarily controlling interest in companies in which it holds interests. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 