ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We may from time to time make written or oral statements that contain forward-looking information. However, our actual results may differ materially from our expectations, statements or projections. The following risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ from our expectations, statements or projections. GENERAL FACTORS The ongoing crisis in global credit and financial markets could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The ongoing global financial crisis may limit our ability to access the capital markets at a time when we would like, or need, to raise capital, which could have an impact on our ability to react to changing economic and business conditions. Accordingly, if the global financial crisis and current economic downturn continue or worsen, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. -15- We have a history of operating losses and have used increasing amounts of cash for operations and to fund our acquisitions and investments. We have a history of operating losses, and have used significant amounts of cash to fund our operating activities over the years. In 2008 and 2009, we had operating losses of $12.4 million and $8.2 million, respectively. Cash used in operations in 2008 and 2009 was $3.3 million and $5.4 million, respectively. In addition, we continue to pursue additional acquisitions and investment opportunities and may need to support the financing needs of our subsidiaries. Following our recent capital raise (see “Recent Developments”), we currently have enough cash on hand to fund our operations for the next 12 months. However, we may need additional funds to finance future investment and acquisition activity we wish to undertake. We do not know if such funds will be available if needed on terms that we consider acceptable. We may have to limit or adjust our investment/acquisition strategy or sell some of our assets in order to continue to pursue our corporate goals. We depend on key management for the success of our business. Our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management team and other key personnel. In particular, our success depends on the continued efforts of John A. Moore, our CEO, William J. McMahon, CEO of CoaLogix/SCR-Tech, Benny Sela, CEO of DSIT, Ray Simonson, CEO of Coreworx and other key management level employees. The loss of the services of any of these key employees could materially harm our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies on any of our employees other than for our CEO, John A. Moore. Although to date we have been successful in retaining the services of senior management and have entered into employment agreements with them, members of our senior management may terminate their employment agreements without cause and with various notice periods. We may also not be able to locate or employ on acceptable terms qualified replacements for our senior management or key employees if their services were no longer available. Loss of the services of a few key employees could harm our operations. We depend on key technical employees and sales personnel. The loss of certain personnel could diminish our ability to develop and maintain relationships with customers and potential customers. The loss of certain technical personnel could harm our ability to meet development and implementation schedules. The loss of key sales personnel could have a negative effect on sales to certain current customers. Most of our significant employees are bound by confidentiality and non-competition agreements. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, train and retain other highly qualified technical and managerial personnel. If we fail to attract or retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel in the future, our business could be disrupted. Our awards of stock options to employees may not have their intended effect. A portion of our total compensation program for our executive officers and key personnel has historically included the award of options to buy our common shares or the common stock of our subsidiaries. If the price of our common stock performs poorly, such performance may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract critical personnel. In addition, any changes made to our stock option policies, or to any other of our compensation practices, which are made necessary by governmental regulations or competitive pressures could affect our ability to retain and motivate existing personnel and recruit new personnel. -16- Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance, public disclosure and financial accounting standards may result in additional expenses and affect our reported results of operations. Keeping informed of, and in compliance with, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, public disclosure and accounting standards, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as new and proposed SEC regulations and accounting standards, has required an increased amount of management attention and external resources. Compliance with such requirements may result in increased general and administrative expenses and an increased allocation of management time and attention to compliance activities. We may not be able to successfully integrate companies which we may invest in or acquire in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. On March 2, 2010, Coreworx and Acorn Energy entered into a definitive agreement for Coreworx to acquire Decision Dynamics Technology Ltd. (see “Recent Developments”), and we plan to close on our acquisition of GridSense in the second quarter of 2010. Any failure to effectively integrate Decision Dynamics or GridSense’s management into our controls, systems and procedures could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our strategy is to continue to expand in the future, including through acquisitions. Integrating acquisitions is often costly, and we may not be able to successfully integrate our acquired companies with our existing operations without substantial costs, delays or other adverse operational or financial consequences. Integrating our acquired companies involves a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our business, including: · failure of the acquired companies to achieve the results we expect; · inability to retain key personnel of the acquired companies; · dilution of existing stockholders; · potential disruption of our ongoing business activities and distraction of our management; · difficulties in retaining business relationships with suppliers and customers of the acquired companies; · difficulties in coordinating and integrating overall business strategies, sales and marketing, and research and development efforts; and · the difficulty of establishing and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, including accounting controls and procedures. If any of our acquired companies suffers customer dissatisfaction or performance problems, the same could adversely affect the reputation of our group of companies and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Moreover, any significant acquisition could require substantial use of our capital and may require significant debt or equity financing. We cannot provide any assurance as to the availability or terms of any such financing or its effect on our liquidity and capital resources. -17- We incur substantial costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses in connection with our reporting requirements. Both the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and NASDAQ, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. These rules and regulations have already increased our legal and financial compliance costs and the amount of time and effort we devote to compliance activities. We expect these rules and regulations to further increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make compliance and other activities more time-consuming and costly. We continue to regularly monitor and evaluate developments with respect to these new rules with our legal counsel, but we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. We are currently involved in litigation and may in the future may become involved in litigation that may materially adversely affect us We are currently parties to two litigation matters which are described under “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” Also, from time to time in the ordinary course of our business, we may become involved in various legal proceedings, including commercial, product liability, employment, class action and other litigation and claims, as well as governmental and other regulatory investigations and proceedings. Such matters can be time-consuming, divert management’s attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses. Furthermore, because litigation is inherently unpredictable, the results of any such actions may have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition. Goodwill recorded in connection with our acquisitions is subject to mandatory annual impairment evaluations and as a result, we could be required to write off some or all of this goodwill, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In accordance with applicable accounting principles, goodwill is not amortized but is reviewed annually or more frequently for impairment and other intangibles are also reviewed at least annually or more frequently, if certain conditions exist. Any reduction in or impairment of the value of goodwill will result in a charge against earnings which could materially adversely affect our reported results of operations and financial position in future periods. The financial soundness of our customers could affect our business and operating results. As a result of the disruptions in the financial markets and other macro-economic challenges currently affecting the economy of the United States and other parts of the world, our customers may experience cash flow concerns. As a result, if customers’ operating and financial performance deteriorates, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, customers may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable owed to us. Any inability of current and/or potential customers to pay us for services may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. -18- While we have not reported any material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting in the past, we cannot assure you that material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or our filings may not be timely and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in each Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. As a result, we cannot assure you that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations regarding disclosure controls and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated thereunder. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to timely meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, or our intellectual property protection efforts are unsuccessful, others may duplicate our technology. Our operating companies rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. Our ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology, systems designs and manufacturing processes. The ability of others to use our intellectual property could allow them to duplicate the benefits of our products and reduce our competitive advantage. We do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will issue or, in the case of patents issued, that the claims allowed are or will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or processes. Further, a patent issued covering one use of our technology may not be broad enough to cover uses of that technology in other business areas. Even if all our patent applications are issued and are sufficiently broad, they may be challenged or invalidated or our competitors may independently develop or patent technologies or processes that are equivalent or superior to ours. We could incur substantial costs in prosecuting patent and other intellectual property infringement suits and defending the validity of our patents and other intellectual property. While we have attempted to safeguard and maintain our property rights, we do not know whether we have been or will be completely successful in doing so. These actions could place our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights at risk and could result in the loss of patent, trademark or other intellectual property rights protection for the products, systems and services on which our business strategy partly depends. We rely, to a significant degree, on contractual provisions to protect our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. These trade secrets cannot be protected by patent protection. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Our trade secrets may also be known without breach of such agreements or may be independently developed by competitors. -19- Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products and services if these claims are successful. We also may incur significant expenses in affirmatively protecting our intellectual property rights. In recent years, there has been significant litigation involving patents and other intellectual property rights in many technology-related industries and we believe that the industries that certain of our subsidiaries operate have a significant amount of patent activity. Third parties may claim that the technology or intellectual property that we incorporate into or use to develop, manufacture or provide our current and future products, systems or services infringe, induce or contribute to the infringement of their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to infringe, induce or contribute to the infringement of those intellectual property rights and may be required to obtain a license to use those rights. We may also be required to engage in costly efforts to design our products, systems and services around the intellectual property rights of others. The intellectual property rights of others may cover some of our technology, products, systems and services. In addition, the scope and validity of any particular third party patent may be subject to significant uncertainty. Litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming, and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements or to indemnify our customers. However, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. Any inability on our part to obtain needed licenses could delay or prevent the development, manufacture and sale of our products, systems or services. We may also be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development, manufacture and sale of our products, systems or services. We also may be required to incur significant time and expense in pursuing claims against companies we believe are infringing or have misappropriated our intellectual property rights. We are currently pursuing one such claim as described under “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings” and may find it necessary to commence such litigation in the future to protect our rights and future business opportunities. We can offer no assurance as to the outcome of any such litigation. Concentrations of credit risk Financial instruments, which potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk, consist principally of cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables. The counterparty to a majority of our cash equivalent deposits is a money market of a major financial institution which invests only in U.S. Treasury bills. We do not believe there is significant risk of non-performance by this counterparty. Approximately 56% of the trade accounts receivable at December 31, 2009 was due from four customers that pay their trade receivables over usual credit periods. Credit risk with respect to the balance of trade receivables is generally diversified due to the number of entities comprising our customer base. -20- RISKS RELATED TO COALOGIX SCR-Tech has incurred significant net losses since inception and may never achieve sustained profitability. SCR-Tech has incurred net losses of $2.7 million and $1.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We believe that SCR-Tech will improve its operating results in 2010; however, we can provide no assurance that SCR-Tech will generate sufficient revenues to allow it to become profitable or to sustain profitability. The size of the market for SCR-Tech’s business is uncertain. SCR-Tech offers SCR catalyst cleaning, rejuvenation and regeneration, as well as SCR system management and consulting services. The size and growth rate for this market will ultimately be determined by a number of factors, including environmental regulations, the growth in the use of SCR systems to reduce NOx and other pollutants, the length of operation of SCR systems, the adoption of regeneration versus replacement, the expansion of warranty coverage from SCR catalyst OEMs, the cost of new SCR catalyst, and other factors, most of which are beyond the control of SCR-Tech. There is limited historical evidence in the United States as to the cycle of replacement, cleaning and regeneration of SCR catalyst so as to accurately estimate the potential growth of the business. In addition, the number of times a catalyst can be regenerated is unknown, which also may affect the demand for regeneration in lieu of purchasing new catalyst. Any delay in the development of the market could significantly and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. SCR-Tech may be subject to vigorous competition with very large competitors that have substantially greater resources and operating histories. We are aware of one company, Evonik Energy Services, LLC, formerly known as Steag (“Evonik LLC”), which entered the U.S. catalyst regeneration market in 2008. Evonik LLC has currently built a regeneration facility in North Carolina. Evonik LLC, based in Kings Mountain, North Carolina, is a subsidiary of a German power producer, Evonik Steag GmbH (“Evonik GmbH”). Evonik GmbH is very large and has substantially greater resources than SCR-Tech or us. Competition from Evonik may have a material adverse effect on our operations, including a potential reduction in operating margins and a loss of potential business. We are also aware of at least one other company, Enerfab, Inc. that provides SCR catalyst management, rejuvenation and cleaning services. We are aware of certain companies, including Cormetech and Babcock-Hitachi, who have indicated an interest in offering catalyst cleaning and regeneration, and it is possible that manufacturers of new catalyst and other companies may enter the business of SCR catalyst regeneration. There also are a number of SCR catalyst manufacturers with substantial parent companies that may seek to maintain market share by significantly reducing prices of new SCR catalyst which will put pressure on our operating margins. These companies include Cormetech Inc. (owned by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries and Corning, Inc.), Argillon Group (owned by Johnson Matthey), CERAM, Haldor-Topsoe, Inc. and Babcock-Hitachi. Further, if the SCR catalyst regeneration market expands as we expect, additional competitors could emerge. In addition, if our intellectual property protection is weakened, competition could more easily develop. -21- SCR-Tech’s lawsuit against Evonik Energy Services LLC, et al. may not be successful, and the counterclaims of Evonik Energy Services LLC against SCR-Tech may be successful. We will incur significant expenses in pursuing our lawsuit against Evonik and in defending against Evonik’s counterclaims. SCR-Tech’s lawsuit against Evonik Energy Services, LLC and other defendants as described in Item 3, Legal Proceedings, is associated with certain significant risks. The lawsuit will require the time and attention of senior management of SCR-Tech, and could divert attention from other business matters. Expenses of the lawsuit may cause a diversion of significant funds needed by SCR-Tech to fund operations for other aspects of the business. Due to the nature of litigation, it is not possible to predict the outcome of the lawsuit. We anticipate that the Evonik LLC defendants will vigorously defend themselves, and that Evonik LLC will vigorously pursue its counterclaims against SCR-Tech. In the event SCR-Tech is unsuccessful in the lawsuit and Evonik LLC prevails in its counterclaims, Evonik LLC may be awarded substantial damages against SCR-Tech. SCR-Tech has not reserved funds for any loss contingency or legal fees associated with this litigation. In addition, if SCR-Tech is unsuccessful, Evonik LLC will remain a competitor of SCR-Tech. CoaLogix may not prevail in the lawsuit filed against it by Environmental Energy Systems, Inc. The lawsuit brought by Environmental Energy Services, Inc. (“EES”) against CoaLogix is associated with certain significant risks. The lawsuit will require the time and attention of senior management of CoaLogix, and could divert attention from other business matters. Expenses of the lawsuit have and may continue to cause a diversion of significant funds needed by CoaLogix to fund operations for other aspects of the business. Due to the nature of litigation, it is not possible to predict the outcome of the lawsuit. In the event CoaLogix is unsuccessful in defending the lawsuit and EES prevails in its claims, EES may be awarded substantial damages against CoaLogix including costs, interest and attorneys’ fees. CoaLogix has not reserved funds for any loss contingency or legal fees associated with this litigation. SCR-Tech’s business is subject to customer concentration. SCR-Tech offers SCR catalyst cleaning, rejuvenation and regeneration, as well as SCR system management and consulting services to coal-fired power plants. Some of the utilities operating these plants are exceptionally large and operate a number of such power plants. Thus, one or more large utilities could provide a very large order or orders to SCR-Tech which likely would result in one or two such utilities providing most of the orders and revenues for SCR-Tech for a particular quarterly or annual period. During 2009, two customers represented about 36% of CoaLogix’ revenue. During 2008, three customers represented about 75% of CoaLogix’ revenue. Although large orders are beneficial to SCR-Tech by providing a large and consistent source of orders and revenues without the additional cost associated with marketing to a larger number of smaller customers, SCR-Tech is dependent on a relatively small number of large utilities for its business. The loss of one of these customers would have a much greater adverse effect on SCR-Tech than the loss of a smaller customer. This may also result in significant swings in orders and revenues on a quarterly basis as well as impacting on our cash flows. -22- SCR-Tech’s business may be impacted by changes in government regulation and environmental legislation. Our business is significantly dependent on the nature and level of government regulation of emissions. For instance, the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) was vacated by the District of Columbia Court of Appeals in July 2008, and was subsequently re-instated in December 2008 by the same court just days before the vacature became effective. We expect the EPA to revise CAIR or replace it with other clean air regulations, but we cannot at this time to predict the nature of such revisions or replacement regulations. Without government regulation of coal-fired power generation, SCR catalyst would not be used by utilities, there would be no need for utilities to acquire, clean or regenerate SCR catalyst, and SCR-Tech would have no business purpose. Further, changes in or adverse interpretations of governmental accounting or rate-based emissions regulations also could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although government regulation of emissions has become increasingly stringent in recent years, the growing costs associated with such regulations and the economic downturn in the U.S. may limit the level of increase and scope of emissions requirements, which could limit the potential growth of our target markets. Any easing, delay or deferral of governmental emissions requirements or the growth rate of such requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, the coal industry is subject to regular enactment of new or amended federal, state and local environmental and health and safety statutes, regulations and ballot initiatives, as well as judicial decisions interpreting these requirements. These requirements may impose substantial capital and operating costs and operational limitations on us and may adversely affect our business. The requirements may also affect our customers’ decisions to utilize our services which may materially adversely affect our business. SCR-Tech’s business is subject to potential seasonality. Prior to the January 1, 2009 effective date of Phase I of CAIR, some utilities and IPPs operated their SCR units only during the “ozone season” (May 1 — September 30). Because of this, SCR-Tech’s business was more limited than if SCR units were required to operate on a continual basis. During non-ozone season periods, most operators had limited (if any) requirements to run their SCR systems. Given that Phase I of CAIR effectively requires operators run their SCR systems on a continual basis beginning January 1, 2009, we expect less concentration of SCR-Tech’s business during the ozone season each year. However, utilities and IPPs may continue to schedule outages and down time for maintenance during periods beyond our control, resulting in seasonality of SCR-Tech’s business. These potential fluctuations in revenues and cash flow during a year may be significant and could materially impact our quarterly earnings and cash flow. This may have a material adverse effect on the perception of our business and the market price for Acorn's common stock. SCR-Tech does not own its regeneration facilities and it is subject to risks inherent in leasing the site of its operations. SCR-Tech does not own its regeneration site; instead it leases it from Clariant Corporation, the U.S. subsidiary of a Switzerland-based public company (“Clariant”). Although we believe the lease terms are favorable, the dependence on Clariant and the site could subject SCR-Tech to increased risk in the event Clariant experiences financial setbacks or loses its right to operate the site. This risk is heightened because the site is a Federal Superfund site (under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (“CERCLA”), which increases the risks that the site ultimately could be shut down or that Clariant will be financially unable to continue its ownership of the site. It may be difficult to relocate to another site on a timely or cost-effective basis, and SCR-Tech’s business could be negatively impacted by any problems with continuing to conduct its operations at its current site. -23- Furthermore, SCR-Tech does not own its second regeneration site which is under construction; instead it leases it from Fat Boy Trading Company (Fat Boy), an independent owner of the site. The dependence of SCR-Tech on Fat Boy at the second site could subject SCR-Tech to increased risk in the event Fat Boy experiences financial setbacks or is unable to operate the site under the terms of the lease. SCR-Tech could be subject to environmental risks as a result of the operation of its business and the location of its facilities. The operation of SCR-Tech’s business and the nature of its assets create various environmental risks. SCR-Tech leases its site for operations at a property listed on the National Priority List as a Federal Superfund site (the Clariant site). Five CERCLA Areas (those areas of concern identified under the CERCLA program) are identified on the property, and while SCR-Tech does not lease any property identified as a CERCLA Area, one such CERCLA Area has resulted in contamination of groundwater flowing underneath one of the buildings leased by SCR-Tech. Although SCR-Tech has indemnification from Clariant for any environmental liability arising prior to the operation of SCR-Tech’s business at the site, we can provide no assurance that such indemnification will be sufficient or that SCR-Tech would be protected from an environmental claim from the nature of the site. In addition, the operation of SCR-Tech’s business involves removal of hazardous wastes from catalyst and the use of significant chemical materials. As a result, SCR-Tech could be subject to potential liability resulting from such operations. To date, neither Acorn nor SCR-Tech has been identified as a potential responsible party to such environmental risks, nor have any amounts been recorded to accrue for these potential exposures. We will be required to make significant capital expenditures to expand SCR-Tech’s production facilities or for other purposes; we may require additional capital for such purposes. In order to meet anticipated demand for increased orders for SCR regeneration services in 2010 and beyond, we expect to incur substantial capital expenditure costs over the next year to construct a second SCR regeneration plant at the Fat Boy site. Because of necessary permitting, site search, time for construction and equipment purchases, we can provide no assurance that SCR-Tech could meet the demands from a rapid increase in orders in a timely manner. Any failure to timely fulfill such orders could have an adverse impact on SCR-Tech’s business. If we incur the expected capital expenditures to expand the capacity of SCR-Tech, but the market does not develop as we expect or increased competition results in loss of significant business, we may not generate enough additional revenue from such expenses. This could adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. Moreover, other unanticipated expenses for SCR-Tech, such as litigation or other costs for protecting intellectual property rights or as a result of a significant corporate transaction could result in the need for additional capital. These additional funding requirements may be significant, and funds may not be available when required or may be available only on terms unsatisfactory to us. Our cash requirements will depend on many factors, including but not limited to the market acceptance of our product and service offerings, the ability of SCR-Tech to generate significant cash flow, the rate of expansion of our sales and marketing activities, the rate of expansion of our production capacity, our ability to manage selling, general and administrative expenditures and the timing and extent of SCR-Tech related research and development projects. -24- In addition, we continue to actively pursue possible business opportunities, including but not limited to, mergers, acquisitions or other strategic arrangements. Such strategic opportunities could require the use of additional cash, or could require additional equity or debt financing. The nature and amount of any such financing or the use of any capital in any such transaction cannot be predicted and will depend on the terms and conditions of the particular transaction. Certain of SCR-Tech’s capital equipment are unique to our business and would be difficult and expensive to repair or replace. Certain of the capital equipment used in the services performed by SCR-Tech has been developed and made specifically for us and would be difficult to repair or replace if it were to become damaged or stop working. In addition, certain of our equipment is not readily available from multiple vendors. Consequently, any damage to or breakdown of our equipment at a time when we are regenerating large amounts of SCR catalyst at SCR-Tech may have a material adverse impact on our business. SCR-Tech is dependent on third parties to perform certain testing required to confirm successful regeneration. In connection with the regeneration of SCR catalyst, SCR-Tech generally must have an independent company provide testing services to determine the level of success of regeneration. Currently there are a limited number of companies providing this service. If SCR-Tech is unable to obtain this service on a cost-effective basis, SCR-Tech may not be able to perform its regeneration services. In addition, if the testing cannot be completed in a timely manner, there may be a slowdown of operations which can negatively impact the profitability and financial condition of the Company. Significant price increases in key materials may reduce SCR-Tech’s gross margins and profitability of regeneration of SCR Catalyst. The prices of various chemicals used to regenerate SCR catalyst can be volatile. If the long-term costs of these materials were to increase significantly, we would attempt to reduce material usage or find substitute materials. If these efforts were not successful or if these cost increases could not be reflected in our price to customers, then our gross margins and profitability of regenerating SCR Catalyst would be reduced and our ability to operate SCR-Tech profitably could be compromised. There are risks associated with our purchase of used SCR catalyst. SCR-Tech’s primary business involves the cleaning and regenerating of customer-owned SCR catalyst. In certain instances, however, SCR-Tech may purchase used or “spent” catalyst from utilities for regeneration, as when, for example, a utility wishes to avoid the costs and potential hazardous waste issues associated with the disposal of used or “spent” catalyst. SCR-Tech may purchase SCR catalyst for a nominal sum and then regenerate such catalyst for immediate sale, or may purchase spent SCR catalyst on an opportunistic basis for future regeneration and sale. The purchase of spent SCR catalyst involves potential risks to SCR-Tech. For example, spent SCR catalyst includes significant hazardous waste, and unlike the regeneration of customer-owned SCR catalyst, the purchase of spent SCR catalyst requires SCR-Tech to take ownership or “title” to the SCR catalyst, which may potentially increase SCR-Tech’s environmental risk exposure. Furthermore, if SCR-Tech cannot find a customer to purchase the regenerated catalyst, then SCR-Tech must either store the spent catalyst, subject to the inherent risk of holding catalyst which has not been regenerated and contains hazardous waste, or incur significant costs to dispose of the spent catalyst in a manner which complies with the strict requirements of applicable environmental laws. In addition, the sale of SCR catalyst may expose SCR-Tech to risks not inherent in the cleaning and regeneration of SCR catalyst, including product liability claims. It is unclear as to the amount of SCR catalyst which SCR-Tech may purchase, but it is possible such purchases ultimately may be substantial, and may significantly increase the risk profile of SCR-Tech’s business. -25- Many of the risks of our business have only limited insurance coverage and many of our business risks are uninsurable. Our business operations are subject to potential environmental, product liability, employee and other risks. Although we have insurance to cover some of these risks, the amount of this insurance is limited and includes numerous exceptions and limitations to coverage. Further, no insurance is available to cover certain types of risks, such as acts of God, war, terrorism, major economic and business disruptions and similar events. In the event we were to suffer a significant environmental, product liability, employee or other claim in excess of our insurance or a loss or damages relating to an uninsurable risk, our financial condition could be negatively impacted. In addition, the cost of our insurance has increased substantially in recent years and may prove to be prohibitively expensive, thus making it impractical to obtain insurance. This may result in the need to abandon certain business activities or subject ourselves to the risks of uninsured operations. New technologies could be developed which make SCR catalyst obsolete. SCR-Tech’s business is dependent upon the needs of coal-fired power plants to replace or regenerate SCR catalyst. It is possible that at some point in the future new technology may be developed which replaces SCR catalyst as the preferred solution for removing NOx from the power plant exhaust. In such event, SCR-Tech’s business would be materially and adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO DSIT SOLUTIONS Failure to accurately forecast costs of fixed-priced contracts could reduce our margins. When working on a fixed-price basis, we undertake to deliver software or integrated hardware/software solutions to a customer’s specifications or requirements for a particular project. The profits from these projects are primarily determined by our success in correctly estimating and thereafter controlling project costs. Costs may in fact vary substantially as a result of various factors, including underestimating costs, difficulties with new technologies and economic and other changes that may occur during the term of the contract. If, for any reason, our costs are substantially higher than expected, we may incur losses on fixed-price contracts. Hostilities in the Middle East region may slow down the Israeli hi-tech market and may harm our Israeli operations; our Israeli operations may be negatively affected by the obligations of our personnel to perform military service. Our software consulting and development services segment is currently conducted in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect DSIT. Any increase in hostilities in the Middle East involving Israel could weaken the Israeli hi-tech market, which may result in a significant deterioration of the results of our Israeli operations. In addition, an increase in hostilities in Israel could cause serious disruption to our Israeli operations if acts associated with such hostilities result in any serious damage to our offices or those of our customers or harm to our personnel. -26- Exchange rate fluctuations could increase the cost of our Israeli operations. A majority of DSIT’s sales are based on contracts or orders which are in U.S dollars or are in New Israeli Shekels (“NIS”) linked to the U.S. dollar. At the same time, most of DSIT’s expenses are denominated in NIS (primarily labor costs) and are not linked to any foreign currency. While the dollar value of the revenues of our operations in Israel will increase if the dollar is devalued in relation to the NIS, the net effect of such devaluation is that DSIT’s costs in dollar terms increase more than our revenues. The translation of the balance sheets of our Israeli operations from NIS into U.S. dollars is sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These translation gains or losses are recorded either as cumulative translation adjustments (“CTA”) within stockholders’ equity, or foreign exchange gains or losses in the statement of operations. In 2009 the NIS strengthened in relation to the U.S. dollar by 0.7%. As of December 31, 2009, a 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar against the NIS would have increased stockholders’ equity by approximately $0.5 million (arising from a CTA adjustment of approximately $0.3 million and net exchange gains of approximately $0.2 million). These hypothetical changes are based on adjusting the December 31, 2009 exchange rates by 10%. DSIT currently enters into forward contracts to try to mitigate its exposures to exchange rate fluctuations, however, we can provide no assurance that such controls will be implemented successfully. We are substantially dependent on a small number of customers and the loss of one or more of these customers may cause revenues and cash flow to decline. In 2009, 60% of DSIT’s revenues were concentrated in two customers. Both of these customers are expected to continue to make up a significant portion of DSIT’s revenues and cash flow for 2010. A significant reduction of future orders or delay in milestone payments from any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the performance of DSIT. We are dependent on meeting milestones to provide cash flow for operations. Our present operations, as we are currently structured, place a great reliance on our meeting project milestones in order to generate cash flow to finance our operations. Should we encounter difficulties in meeting significant project milestones, resulting cash flow difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our operations. If we are unable to keep pace with rapid technological change, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may suffer. Some of our solutions are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and industry standards and technological obsolescence. Our competitiveness and future success depends on our ability to keep pace with changing technologies and industry standards on a timely and cost-effective basis. A fundamental shift in technologies could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position. Our failure to react to changes in existing technologies could materially delay our development of new products, which could result in technological obsolescence, decreased revenues, and/or a loss of market share to competitors. To the extent that we fail to keep pace with technological change, our revenues and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. -27- We must at times provide significant guarantees in order to secure projects. Some of the projects we perform require significant performance and/or bank guarantees. In DSIT’s current financial condition, it may not always be able to supply such guarantees without financial assistance from Acorn. If Acorn needs to provide financial guarantees for DSIT, Acorn may not have sufficient funds available to it to invest in other emerging ventures or take advantage of opportunities available to us in a timely manner. We are dependent on a number of suppliers who provide us with components for some of our products. A number of our suppliers provide us with major components for some of our products for our Naval & RT solutions. Some of these components are long-lead items. If for some reason, the suppliers cannot provide us with the component when we need it and we cannot easily find substitute suppliers on similar terms, we may have increased costs and/or delays in delivering a product to a customer and incur penalties and lose customer confidence. In addition, project delays can also slow down revenue recognition and our financial condition could be materially adversely affected. While we are constantly attempting to develop secondary and tertiary suppliers for these components, we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in doing so on terms acceptable to us. We are dependent on one bank for most of our financing needs and we may not be able to obtain necessary financing to continue growing the Company. While DSIT has recently received a term-loan of NIS 2 million (approximately $530,000) and has lines-of-credit of NIS 2 million, DSIT needs additional financing from time to time due to the timing of large milestone payments and the need to set aside cash deposits as security for some of its projects. Due to historical losses, DSIT has found it difficult to find a suitable secondary bank to support its financing needs. If we cannot increase our sources of financing, we may not be able to sustain our recent growth and invest in expanding our portfolio of products. We are a relatively small company with limited resources compared to some of our current and potential competitors, which may hinder our ability to compete effectively. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources and broader name recognition than we have. As a result, these competitors may have greater credibility with our existing and potential customers. They also may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can to ours, which would allow them to respond more quickly than us to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. RISKS RELATED TO COREWORX Coreworx has incurred significant net losses since inception and may never achieve sustained profitability. Coreworx has incurred net losses of C$5.3 and C$3.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, respectively. We believe that Coreworx will reduce its losses in 2010; however, we can provide no assurance that Coreworx will generate sufficient revenues to allow it to become profitable or to sustain profitability. -28- Coreworx may need additional financing Cash used in operations in 2008 and 2009 was C$5.7 million and C$2.9 million, respectively. Coreworx will continue to require additional working capital support in order to finance its operations in 2010. This support may be in the form of a bank line, new investment by others, additional investment by Acorn, or a combination of the above. Since January 1, 2010, we have lent Coreworx $2.2 million. We have no assurance that such additional support will be available in sufficient amounts, in a timely manner and on acceptable terms. The availability and amount of any additional investment from Acorn may be limited by the working capital needs of our corporate activities and other operating companies. Current and future competitors could have a significant impact on our ability to generate future revenue and profits The market for project management collaboration software is highly competitive. Coreworx competes with products from major software companies. We expect competition to increase and intensify in the future as the pace of technological change and adaptation quickens and as additional companies enter into each of our markets. We may not be able to compete effectively with current competitors and potential entrants into our marketplace. We could lose market share if our current or prospective competitors introduce new competitive products, add new functionality to existing products, acquire competitive products, reduce prices or form strategic alliances with other companies. If other businesses were to engage in aggressive pricing policies with respect to competing products, or if the dynamics in our marketplace resulted in increasing bargaining power by the consumers of our products and services, we would need to lower the prices we charge for the products we offer. This could result in lower revenues or reduced margins, either of which may materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Our products and services may not gain market acceptance or competitors may introduce offerings that surpass those of Coreworx. The primary market for our software and services is rapidly evolving which means that the level of acceptance of products and services that have been released recently or that are planned for future release by the marketplace is not certain. If the markets for our products and services fail to develop, develop more slowly than expected or become subject to intense competition, our business will suffer. As a result, we may be unable to: (i) successfully market our current products and services, (ii) develop new software products, services and enhancements to current products and services, (iii) complete customer installations on a timely basis, or (iv) complete products and services currently under development. If our products and services are not accepted by our customers or by other businesses in the marketplace, our business and operating results will be materially affected. In addition, we can provide no assurance that Coreworx will be successful in deriving significant revenue growth through its current strategy and marketing initiatives. Our investment in our current research and development efforts may not be effective. The development of software products is a costly, complex and time-consuming process, and the investment in software product development often involves a long gestation period until a “return” is achieved on such an investment. We make and will continue to make significant investments in software research and development and related product opportunities. Investments in new technology and processes are inherently speculative. Accelerated product introductions and short product life cycles require high levels of expenditures for research and development. These expenditures may adversely affect our operating results if they are not offset by revenue increases. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts in order to maintain our competitive position. However, significant revenue from new product and service investments may not be achieved for a number of years, if at all. Moreover, new products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may not be as high as the margins we have experienced for our current or historical products and services. -29- The demand for our products depends in large part on continued growth in the industries into which they are sold. A market decline in any of these industries could have a material negative impact on our results of operations. Our growth is dependent, in part, on capital projects initiated by our customers and potential customers. Any industry downturns that adversely affect our customers or their customers, including increases in bankruptcies in relevant industries, could adversely affect end-user demand for our customers’ products, which would adversely affect demand for our products. Growth in demand in the markets we serve has in the past and may in the future fluctuate significantly based on numerous factors, including capital spending levels of our current and potential customers, consumer spending, energy and commodity prices and general economic conditions. The rate, or extent to which, the industries we serve will grow, if at all, is uncertain. The industries we serve are currently experiencing a decline in general economic conditions, which could result in slower growth or a decline in demand for our products, which could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the Canadian dollar significantly strengthens relative to the U.S. dollar, future operating results will be negatively affected. Coreworx currently derives over 80% of its revenue in U.S. dollars. At the same time, most of Coreworx’ expenses are denominated in Canadian dollars. A decline in the value of the U.S. dollar will have a major impact on Coreworx’ profitability as it increases Coreworx’ costs in U.S. dollars. The translation of the balance sheets of Coreworx’ operations from C$ into U.S. dollars is sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These translation gains or losses are recorded either as CTA within stockholders’ equity, or foreign exchange gains or losses in the statement of operations. In 2009 the Canadian dollar strengthened in relation to the U.S. dollar by 13.8%. As of December 31, 2009, a 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Canadian dollar would have increased stockholders’ equity by approximately $0.6 million (arising from a CTA adjustment of approximately $0.6 million). These hypothetical changes are based on adjusting the December 31, 2009 exchange rates by 10%. While Coreworx has in the past been successful in reducing the impact of fluctuations in the exchange rate through currency management, there is no assurance that Coreworx will be able to successfully manage these exposures in the future. Any significant change in foreign exchange rates may adversely affect our revenue, earnings and other financial measures. Revenue from the renewal of maintenance contracts on our older software sales may decline. Coreworx has historically enjoyed a high retention rate across its various product lines. As Coreworx’ products age, these retention rates may not be sustained unless Coreworx is successful in providing its customers with more advanced functionality and the levels of support that they require. -30- The loss of licenses to use or sell third party software or the lack of support or enhancement of such software could adversely affect Coreworx business. Coreworx depends on the sale and support of third party software for a significant component of its primary software product. There can be no assurance that these third party products will be available on commercially reasonable terms or that they will be appropriately supported, maintained or enhanced by the licensors. While Coreworx would make its best efforts to mitigate the impact of the loss of the ability to use, sell and support third party software, there is no assurance that Coreworx would be successful or that the terms for their use will remain economically feasible. The inability to use the third party software could have a material adverse affect on our business. The loss of one or more of our significant customers or a decline in demand from one or more of these customers could have a material negative impact on net sales. In 2009, 93% of Coreworx’ revenue was the result of sales to five customers. In addition, in any given quarter, license sales from individual transactions can be material and in some cases the related sales cycles can be long. As a result, Coreworx’ revenue, cash flows and earnings can fluctuate materially from quarter to quarter due to the timing of significant license agreements. The loss or a decline in demand from one or more of these customers could have a material negative impact on Coreworx’ results of operations and revenues, cash flows and earnings. Our future revenues depend on our ability to enhance our existing products and develop new products. Coreworx needs to continue to upgrade the Coreworx suite to add features demanded by the market. Coreworx is in the process of completing and enhancing its Coreworx suite with functionality in the areas of interface management, contract management and developing a nuclear industry solution that addresses project execution and information control requirements for major refurbishment, power uprate and new build projects and expects to complete the integration by the end of the second quarter of 2010. A failure to complete updates of these offerings on a timely basis could have a negative impact on Coreworx’ sales, particularly to potential new customers. Coreworx’ future success will depend upon its ability to enhance its current products, to keep pace with technological developments and respond to end-user requirements. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in developing or marketing new products or product enhancements, or that we can avoid significant delays in development in the future, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to continue to compete successfully will depend in large measure on our ability to maintain a technically competent research and development staff and adapt to technological changes and advances in the industry, including providing for the continued compatibility of our software products with evolving computer hardware and software platforms and operating environments. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts. Our products may contain defects that could harm our reputation, be costly to correct, delay revenues, and expose us to warranty claims and litigation. Our products are highly complex and sophisticated and, from time to time, may contain design defects or software errors that are difficult to detect and correct. Errors may be found in new software products or improvements to existing products after commencement of shipments to our customers. If these defects are discovered, we may not be able to successfully correct such errors in a timely manner. In addition, despite the extensive tests we conduct on all our products, we may not be able to fully simulate the environment in which our products will operate and, as a result, we may be unable to adequately detect the design defects or software errors which may become apparent only after the products are installed in an end-user’s network. The occurrence of errors and failures in our products could result in the delay or the denial of market acceptance of our products; alleviating such errors and failures may require us to make significant expenditure of our resources. The harm to our reputation resulting from product errors and failures may be materially damaging. Since we regularly provide a warranty with our products, the financial impact of fulfilling warranty obligations may be significant in the future. Our agreements with our strategic partners and end-users typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to claims. These agreements usually contain terms such as the exclusion of all implied warranties and the limitation of the availability of consequential or incidental damages. However, such provisions may not effectively protect us against claims and the attendant liabilities and costs associated with such claims. Although we maintain errors and omissions insurance coverage and comprehensive liability insurance coverage, such coverage may not be adequate to cover all such claims. Accordingly, any such claim could negatively affect our financial condition. -31- The sales cycle for our products is long which may result in significant fluctuations in license revenue being recognized from quarter to quarter. The decision by a customer to purchase our products often involves a comprehensive implementation process across our customers’ network or networks. As a result, licenses of these products may entail a significant commitment of resources by prospective customers, accompanied by the attendant risks and delays frequently associated with significant expenditures and lengthy sales cycle and implementation procedures. Given the significant investment and commitment of resources required by an organization to implement our software, our sales cycle may be longer compared to companies in other industries. It may in some cases take several months, or even several quarters, for marketing opportunities to materialize into sales. If a customer’s decision to license our software is delayed or if the installation of our products takes longer than originally anticipated, the date on which we may recognize revenue from these licenses would be delayed. Such delays could cause volatility in our reported revenues from period to period. RISKS RELATED TO OUR SECURITIES Our stock price is highly volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Since January 1, 2009 our common stock has traded at prices as low as $1.35 and as high as $8.06 per share. Fluctuations in our stock price may continue to occur in response to various factors, many of which we cannot control, including: · general economic and political conditions and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the continued volatility in the energy industry and the general economy; · quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results; · announcements of changes in our senior management; · the gain or loss of one or more significant customers or suppliers; · announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors, customers or us; · the gain or loss of market share in any of our markets; · changes in accounting rules; · changes in investor perceptions; or · changes in expectations relating to our products, plans and strategic position or those of our competitors or customers. -32- In addition, the market prices of securities of energy related companies have been and remain volatile. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. Our share price may decline due to the large number of shares of our common stock eligible for future sale in the public market including shares underlying warrants and options. Almost all of our outstanding shares of common stock are, or could upon exercise of options or warrants would become, eligible for sale in the public market as described below. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the possibility of these sales, may adversely affect our stock price. As of March 15, 2010, 14,219,148 shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding. As of that date we had 233,306 warrants outstanding and exercisable with an exercise price of $4.50 and 1,421,831 options outstanding and exercisable with a weighted average exercise price of $3.52 per share, which if exercised would result in the issuance of additional shares of our common stock. In addition to the options noted above, at March 15, 2010, 280,834 options are outstanding, but have not yet vested and are not yet exercisable. In addition, we expect to issue approximately 1.2 million additional shares in connection with our pending acquisitions of GridSense and Decision Dynamics, 660,000 of which will be freely tradable upon issuance, 440,000 within six months of issuance and the balance one year after issuance. ITEM 