ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We may from time to time make written or oral statements that contain forward-looking information. However, our actual results may differ materially from our expectations, statements or projections. The following risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ from our expectations, statements or projections. GENERAL FACTORS We have a history of operating losses and decreasing cash available for operations. We have a history of operating losses, although these losses and our use of cash to fund our operating activities have decreased over the years. In 2003, 2004 and 2005, we had operating losses of $5.2 million, $2.6 million and $2.2 million, respectively. Cash used in operations in 2003, 2004 and 2005 was $1.0 million, $0.1 million and $1.7 million, respectively. Although our operating results improved towards the end of 2005, almost achieving breakeven in the fourth quarter of 2005, the balance of cash on hand as of the end of 2005 may not be sufficient to fund our operating activities for the next 12 months, particularly as we expect to require additional resources to fund anticipated growth in our dsIT subsidiary in 2006. In addition, in March 2006, we sold our Databit computer hardware sales company, which in the past, helped to fund our corporate activities in the US. While the sale released previously restricted cash to us to help us finance corporate activities, we have no guarantee that such amounts will be sufficient. However, we continue to consider various restructuring, merger or acquisition and/or additional financing transactions, which would give us additional liquidity. Should we need additional liquidity to finance our US activities and should we be unsuccessful in completing a timely transaction providing the necessary liquidity, we may not have sufficient funds to finance our US activities. In such event, we might need to sell additional assets. We believe that the balance of cash available after the release of restricted funds subsequent to our sale of Databit, the proceeds of our recently settled lawsuit, lines of credit available to our dsIT subsidiary and expected profits from the operations dsIT should provide sufficient liquidity to fund all our activities for at least the next 12 months in both our US and Israeli operations. For additional discussion of our liquidity position and factors that may affect our future liquidity, see the discussion under the captions “Recent Developments” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Loss of the services of a few key employees could harm our operations. We depend on our key management, technical employees and sales personnel. The loss of certain managers could diminish our ability to develop and maintain relationships with customers and potential customers. The loss of certain technical personnel could harm our ability to meet development and implementation schedules. The loss of certain sales personnel could have a negative effect on sales to certain current customers. Most of our significant employees are bound by confidentiality and non-competition agreements. We do not maintain a “key man” life insurance policy on any of our executives or employees. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, train and retain other highly qualified technical and managerial personnel. If we fail to attract or retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel in the future, our business could be disrupted. A failure to integrate our new management may adversely affect us. We appointed a new chief financial officer and chief accounting officer in December 2005 and recently appointed a new president and chief executive officer. Any failure to effectively integrate our new management and any new management controls, systems and procedures they may implement, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. -5- RISKS RELATED TO THE SOFTWARE CONSULTING AND DEVELOPMENT SEGMENT Failure to accurately forecast costs of fixed-priced contracts could reduce our margins. When working on a fixed-price basis, we undertake to deliver software or integrated hardware/software solutions to a customer’s specifications or requirements for a particular project. The profits from these projects are primarily determined by our success in correctly estimating and thereafter controlling project costs. Costs may in fact vary substantially as a result of various factors, including underestimating costs, difficulties with new technologies and economic and other changes that may occur during the term of the contract. If, for any reason, our costs are substantially higher than expected, we may incur losses on fixed-price contracts. Hostilities in the Middle East region may slow down the Israeli hi-tech market and may harm our Israeli operations; our Israeli operations may be negatively affected by the obligations of our personnel to perform military service. Our software consulting and development services segment is currently conducted in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect this segment of our business. Any increase in hostilities in the Middle East involving Israel could weaken the Israeli hi-tech market, which may result in a significant deterioration of the results of our Israeli operations. In addition, an increase in hostilities in Israel could cause serious disruption to our Israeli operations if acts associated with such hostilities result in any serious damage to our offices or those of our customers or harm to our personnel. Many of our employees in Israel are obligated to perform military reserve duty. In the event of severe unrest or other conflict, one or more of our key employees could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. In the past, there were numerous call-ups of military reservists to active duty, and it is possible that there will be additional call-ups in the future. Our Israeli operations could be disrupted as a result of such call-ups for military service. Exchange rate fluctuations could increase the cost of our Israeli operations. The sales in this segment stem from our Israeli operations and a significant portion of those sales are in New Israeli Shekels (“NIS”). In addition, many transactions that are linked to the dollar are settled in NIS. The dollar value of the revenues of our operations in Israel will decrease if the dollar is devalued in relation to the NIS during the period from the invoicing of a transaction to its settlement. In addition, significant portions of our expenses in those operations are in NIS, so that if the dollar is devalued in relation to the NIS, the dollar value of these expenses will increase. One of our major customers has a history of operating deficits and may implement cost-cutting measures that may have a material adverse effect on us. In 2005, 17% of the software consulting and development segment’s sales (13% and 11% in 2004 and 2003, respectively) and 8% of its billed receivables and unbilled work-in-process at December 31, 2005 (3% at December 31, 2004) were related to the Clalit Health Fund. The Clalit Health Fund is the largest HMO in Israel and one of the largest in the world. The fund has a history of running at a deficit, which in the past has required numerous cost cutting plans and periodic assistance from the Israeli government. Should the fund have to institute additional cost cutting measures in the future, which may include restructuring of its terms of payment, this could have a material adverse effect on the performance of this segment. We have sold our outsourcing business, which in the past provided our Israeli operations with a steady cash flow; our Israeli operations may be hindered by future cash flow problems. In August 2005, we sold our outsourcing business, which in the past provided our Israeli operations with a steady cash flow stream, and, in conjunction with bank lines of credit, helped to finance our Israeli operations. Our present operations, as we are currently structured, places a greater reliance on our meeting project milestones in order to generate cash flow to finance our operations. Should we encounter difficulties in meeting significant project milestones, resulting cash flow difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our operations. -6- If we are unable to keep pace with rapid technological change, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may suffer. Some of our RT and IT solutions are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and industry standards and technological obsolescence. Our competitiveness and future success depends on our ability to keep pace with changing technologies and industry standards on a timely and cost-effective basis. A fundamental shift in technologies in could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position. Our failure to react to changes in existing technologies could materially delay our development of new products, which could result in technological obsolescence, decreased revenues, and/or a loss of market share to competitors. To the extent that we fail to keep pace with technological change, our revenues and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMVERGE INVESTMENT We may need to invest additional funds in Comverge in order to avoid dilution of our holdings. We currently own approximately 76% of Comverge’s common shares and approximately 7% its preferred shares. Comverge has in the past and may in the future to raise equity by private equity placements. Should Comverge continue to raise funds in this manner, we may have to utilize our limited cash or face dilution of our holdings in Comverge. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 