Item 1A. Risk Factors Seaboard has identified important risks and uncertainties that could affect the results of operations, financial condition or business and that could cause them to differ materially from Seaboard's historical results of operations, financial condition or business, or those contemplated by forward-looking statements made herein or elsewhere, by, or on behalf of, Seaboard. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those factors described below. (a) General (1) Seaboard's Operations are Subject to the General Risks of the Food Industry. The segments of the business that are in the food products manufacturing industry are subject to the risks posed by: - food spoilage or food contamination; - evolving consumer preferences and nutritional and health- related concerns; - federal, state and local food processing controls; - consumer product liability claims; - product tampering; - the possible unavailability and/or expense of liability insurance. If one or more of these risks were to materialize, Seaboard's revenues could decrease, costs of doing business could increase, and Seaboard's operating results could be adversely affected. (2) Foreign Political and Economic Conditions Have a Significant Impact on Seaboard's Business. Seaboard is a diverse agribusiness and transportation company with global operations in several industries. Most of the sales and costs of Seaboard's segments are significantly influenced by worldwide fluctuations in commodity prices or changes in foreign political and economic conditions. Accordingly, sales, operating income and cash flows can fluctuate significantly from year to year. In addition, Seaboard's international activities pose risks not faced by companies that limit themselves to United States markets. These risks include: - changes in foreign currency exchange rates; - foreign currency exchange controls; - changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets; - hyperinflation; - heightened customer credit risk; - tariffs, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; - potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; - different legal and regulatory structures and unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements; and - negative perception within a foreign country of a United States company doing business in that foreign country. Seaboard cannot assure you that it will be successful in competing effectively in international markets. (3) Seaboard's Common Stock is Thinly Traded and Subject to Daily Price Fluctuations. The common stock of Seaboard is closely held (71.8%) and thinly traded on a daily basis on the American Stock Exchange. Accordingly, the price of a share of common stock can fluctuate more significantly from day-to-day than a widely held stock that is actively traded on a daily basis. (b) Pork Division (1) Fluctuations in Commodity Pork Prices Could Adversely Affect Seaboard's Results of Operations. Sale prices for Seaboard's pork products are directly affected by both domestic and world wide supply and demand for pork products and other proteins, all of which are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand as well as other factors over which Seaboard has little or no control. Commodity pork prices demonstrate a cyclical nature over periods of years, reflecting changes in the supply of fresh pork and competing proteins on the market, especially beef and chicken. In addition, there could be weakness in the sales prices for Seaboard's pork products due to marketing the increased volumes of pork products produced by Triumph Foods. Seaboard's results of operations could be adversely affected by fluctuations in pork commodity prices. 8 (2) Increases in the Costs of Seaboard's Feed Components and Hog Purchases Could Adversely Affect Seaboard's Costs and Operating Margins. Feed costs are the most significant single component of the cost of raising hogs and can be materially affected by commodity price fluctuations for corn and soybean meal. The results of Seaboard's pork division business can be negatively affected by increased costs of Seaboard's feed components. The recent increase in construction of ethanol plants has elevated this risk as it has increased the competing demand for feed ingredients, primarily corn. Similarly, accounting for approximately 20% of Seaboard's total hogs slaughtered, the cost of third party hogs purchased fluctuates with market conditions and can have an impact on Seaboard's total costs. The cost and supply of feed components and the third party hogs that we purchase are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand, which are driven by matters over which we have no control, including weather, current and projected worldwide grain stocks and prices, grain export prices and supports and governmental agricultural policies. Seaboard attempts to manage certain of these risks through the use of financial instruments, however this may also limit its ability to participate in gains from favorable commodity fluctuations. Unless wholesale pork prices correspondingly increase, increases in the prices of Seaboard's feed components or in the cost of third party hogs purchased would adversely affect Seaboard's operating margins. (3) Seaboard's Ability to Obtain Appropriate Personnel at Remote Locations is Important to Seaboard's Business. The remote locations of the pork processing plant and live hog operations, the lack of immigration reform could negatively affect the availability and cost of labor. Seaboard is dependent on having sufficient properly trained operations personnel. Attracting and retaining qualified personnel is important to Seaboard's success. The inability to acquire and retain the services of such personnel could have a material adverse effect on Seaboard's operations. (4) The Loss of Seaboard's Sole Hog Processing Facility Would Adversely Affect Seaboard's Business. Seaboard's Pork segment is largely dependant on the continued operation of a single hog processing facility. The loss of or damage to this facility for any reason - including fire, tornado, governmental action or other reason - would adversely affect Seaboard and Seaboard's pork products business. (5) Environmental Regulation and Related Litigation Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Seaboard. Seaboard's operations and properties are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent laws and regulations pertaining to, among other things, the discharge of materials into the environment and the handling and disposition of wastes (including solid and hazardous wastes) or otherwise relating to protection of the environment. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations and any future changes to them may result in significant consequences to Seaboard, including civil and criminal penalties, liability for damages and negative publicity. Some requirements applicable to Seaboard may also be enforced by citizen groups. Seaboard has incurred, and will continue to incur, significant capital and operating expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations. (6) Health Risk to Livestock Could Adversely Affect Production, the Supply of Raw Materials and Seaboard's Business. Seaboard is subject to risks relating to its ability to maintain animal health and control diseases. The general health of the hogs and the reproductive performance of the sows can have an adverse impact on production and production costs, the supply of raw material to Seaboard's pork processing operations and consumer confidence. If Seaboard's hogs are affected by disease, Seaboard may be required to destroy infected livestock, which could adversely affect Seaboard's production or ability to sell or export its products. Moreover, the herd health of third party suppliers could adversely affect the supply and cost of hogs available for purchase by Seaboard. Adverse publicity concerning any disease or health concern could also cause customers to lose confidence in the safety and quality of Seaboard's food products. (7) If Seaboard's Pork Products Become Contaminated, We May be Subject to Product Liability Claims and Product Recalls. Pork products may be subject to contamination by disease producing organisms. These organisms are generally found in the environment and as a result, regardless of the manufacturing practices employed, there is a risk that they as a result of food processing could be present in Seaboard's processed pork products. Once contaminated products have been shipped for distribution, illness and death may result if the organisms are not eliminated at the further processing, foodservice or consumer level. Even an inadvertent shipment of contaminated products is a violation of law and may lead to increased risk of exposure to product liability claims, product recalls and increased scrutiny by federal and state regulatory agencies and may have a material adverse effect on Seaboard's business, reputation, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. (8) Corporate Farming Legislation Could Result in the Divestiture or Restructuring of Seaboard's Pork Operations. The development of large corporate farming operations and concentration of hog production in larger-scale facilities has engendered opposition from residents of states in which Seaboard conducts its pork processing and live hog operations. In response, corporate farming legislation periodically has been introduced in the United States Senate 9 and House of Representatives, as well as in several state legislatures. These proposed anti-corporate farming bills have included provisions to prohibit or restrict meat packers, such as Seaboard, from owning or controlling livestock intended for slaughter, which would require divestiture or restructuring of Seaboard's operations. (9) International Trade Barriers Could Adversely Affect Seaboard's Pork Operations. This segment realizes a significant portion of its revenues from international markets, particularly Japan. International sales are subject to risks related to general economic conditions, imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other restrictions, enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions and compliance with applicable foreign laws, and other economic and political uncertainties. These and other risks could result in border closings or other international trade barriers having an adverse effect on Seaboard's earnings. (10) Discontinuation of Tax Credits for Biodiesel Could Adversely Affect Seaboard's Results of Operations. Seaboard will obtain Federal and State tax credits for the biodiesel it produces and sells. The Federal tax credit is scheduled to be discontinued after 2008, and if not renewed could adversely affect Seaboard's results of operations. (c) Commodity Trading & Milling Division (1) Seaboard's Commodity & Milling Division is Particularly Subject to Risks Associated with Foreign Operations. This segment principally operates in Africa, Bermuda, South America and the Caribbean and, in most cases, in what are generally regarded to be lesser developed countries. Many of these foreign operations are subject to risks of doing business in lesser-developed countries which are subject to potential civil unrests and government instabilities, increasing the exposure to potential expropriation, confiscation, war, insurrection, civil strife and revolution, currency inconvertibility and devaluation, and currency exchange controls, in addition to the risks of overseas operations mentioned in clause (a)(2) above. (2) Fluctuations in Commodity Grain Prices Could Adversely Affect the Business of Seaboard's Commodity & Milling Division. This segment's sales are significantly affected by fluctuating worldwide prices for various commodities, such as wheat, corn and soybeans. These prices are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand as well as other factors over which Seaboard has little or no control. North American and European subsidized wheat and flour exports, including donated food aid, and world-wide and local crop production can contribute to these fluctuating market conditions and can have a significant impact on the trading and milling businesses' sales, value of commodities held in inventory and operating income. Seaboard's results of operations could be adversely affected by fluctuations in commodity prices. (3) Seaboard's Commodity & Milling Division Largely Depends on the Availability of Chartered Ships. Most of Seaboard's third party trading is transported with chartered ships. Charter hire rates, influenced by available charter capacity and demand for worldwide trade in bulk cargoes, and related fuel costs can impact business volumes and margins. (4) This Segment Uses a Material Amount of Derivative Products to Manage Certain Market Risks. The commodity trading portion of the business enters into various commodity derivatives, foreign exchange derivatives and freight derivatives to create what management believes is an economic hedge for commodity trades it executes or intends to execute with its customers. From time to time, this portion of the business may enter into speculative derivative transactions related to its market risks. Failure to execute or improper execution of a derivative position or a firmly committed sale or purchase contract, a speculative transaction that closes without the desired result or exposure to counter party risk could have an adverse impact on the results of operations and liquidity. (5) This Segment is Subject to Higher than Normal Risks for Attracting and Retaining Key Personnel. In the commodity trading environment, a loss of a key employee such as a commodity trader can have a negative impact resulting from the loss of revenues as personal customer relationships can be vital to obtaining and retaining business with various foreign customers. In the milling portion of this segment, employing and retaining qualified expatriate personnel is a key element of success given the difficult living conditions, the unique operating environments and the reliance on a relatively small number of executives to manage each individual location. (d) Marine Division (1) The Demand for Seaboard's Marine Division's Services Are Affected by International Trade and Fluctuating Freight Rates. This segment provides containerized cargo shipping services primarily from the United States to over twenty-five different countries in the Caribbean Basin, and Central and South America. In addition to the risks of overseas operations mentioned in clause (a)(2) above, fluctuations in economic conditions, unstable or hostile local political 10 situations in the countries in which Seaboard operates can affect import/export trade volumes and the price of container freight rates and adversely affect Seaboard's results of operations. (2) Chartered Ships Are Subject to Fluctuating Rates. The largest expense for this division is time charter cost. Certain of the ships are under charters longer than one year while others are less than one year. These costs can vary greatly due to a number of factors including the worldwide supply and demand for shipping. It is not possible to determine in advance whether a charter contract for more or less than one year will be favorable to Seaboard's business. Accordingly, entering into long-term charter hire contracts during periods of decreasing charter hire costs or short term charter hire contracts during periods of increasing charter hire costs could have an adverse effect on Seaboard's results of operation. (3) Increasing Fuel Prices Can Adversely Affect Seaboard's Business. Ship fuel expenses are one of the segment's largest expenses. These costs can vary greatly from year-to-year depending on world fuel prices. Also, but to a lesser extent, fuel price increases can impact the cost of inland transportation costs. (4) Marine Transportation is an Inherently Risky Business. Seaboard's vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as: - marine disasters; - bad weather; - mechanical failures; - grounding, fire, explosions and collisions; - human error; and - war and terrorism. All of these hazards can result in death or injury to persons, loss of property, environmental damages, delays or rerouting. If one of Seaboard's vessels were involved in an accident, the resulting media coverage could have a material adverse effect on Seaboard's business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, Seaboard's port operations can be subject to disruption due to hurricanes, especially at Seaboard's major port of operations in Miami, Florida, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. (5) Seaboard is Subject to Complex Laws and Regulations that Can Adversely Affect the Cost, Manner or Feasibility of Doing Business. Increasingly stringent federal, state and local laws and domestic and international regulations governing worker health and safety, environmental protection, port and terminal security, and the operation of vessels significantly affect Seaboard's operations. Many aspects of the marine industry are subject to extensive governmental regulation by the Federal Maritime Commission, the U.S. Coast Guard, and U.S. Customs and Border Protection, and to regulation by private industry organizations. Compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes, while the failure to comply may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of Seaboard's operations or detention of its vessels. (e) Sugar and Citrus Division (1) The Success of this Segment Depends on the Condition of the Argentinean Economy and Political Climate. This segment operates a sugar mill and alcohol production facility in Argentina, locally growing a substantial portion of the sugar cane processed at the mill. In addition, this segment also grows oranges in Argentina. The majority of the sales are within Argentina. Fluctuations in economic conditions or changes in the Argentine political climate can have an impact on the costs of operations, the sale price of products and export opportunities. In this regard, local sale prices are affected by sugar import duties imposed by the Argentine government, which affects the volume of sugar imported to and exported from that market. If import duties are changed, this could have a negative impact on Seaboard's sale price of sugar. In addition, the Argentine government attempts to control inflation through price controls on commodities, including sugar, which could adversely impact the local sales price of sugar and the results of operations for this segment. (2) This Segment is Subject to the Risks that Are Inherent in any Agricultural Business. Seaboard's results of operations for this segment may be adversely affected by numerous factors over which we have little or no control and that are inherent in any agricultural business, including reductions in the market prices for Seaboard's products, adverse weather and growing conditions, pest and disease problems, and new government regulations regarding agriculture 11 and the marketing of agricultural products. Of these risks, weather particularly can adversely affect the amount and quality of the sugar cane produced by Seaboard and Seaboard's competitors located in other regions of Argentina. (3) The Loss of Seaboard's Sole Processing Facility Would Adversely Affect the Business of This Segment. Seaboard's Sugar and Citrus segment is largely dependant on the continued operation of a single processing facility. The loss of or damage to this facility for any reason - including fire, tornado, governmental action or other reason - would adversely affect the business of this segment. (f) Power Division (1) This Segment is Subject to Risks of Doing Business in the Dominican Republic. This segment operates in the Dominican Republic (DR). In addition to significant currency fluctuations and the other risks of overseas operations mentioned in clause (a)(2) above, this segment can experience difficulty in obtaining timely collections of trade receivables from the government partially-owned distribution companies or other companies that must also collect from the government in order to make payments on their accounts. Currently, the DR does not allow a free market to enable prices to rise with demand which would limit our profitability in this business. The government has the ability to arbitrarily decide which power units will be able to operate, which could have adverse effects on results of operations. (2) Increases in Fuel Costs Could Adversely Affect Seaboard's Operating Margins. Fuel is the largest cost component of this segment's business and, therefore, margins may be adversely affected by fluctuations in fuel if such increases can not be fully passed to customers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 