Item 1A. Risk Factors Seaboard has identified important risks and uncertainties that could affect the results of operations, financial condition or business and that could cause them to differ materially from Seaboard's historical results of operations, financial condition or business, or those contemplated by forward-looking statements made herein or elsewhere, by, or on behalf of, Seaboard. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those factors described below. 8 (a) General (1) Seaboard's Operations are Subject to the General Risks of the Food Industry. The divisions of the business that are in the food products manufacturing industry are subject to the risks posed by: - food spoilage or food contamination; - evolving consumer preferences and nutritional and health-related concerns; - federal, state, national, provincial and local food processing controls; - consumer product liability claims; - product tampering; and - the possible unavailability and/or expense of liability insurance. If one or more of these risks were to materialize, Seaboard's revenues could decrease, costs of doing business could increase, and Seaboard's operating results could be adversely affected. (2) Foreign Political and Economic Conditions Have a Significant Impact on Seaboard's Business. Seaboard is a diverse agribusiness and transportation company with global operations in several industries. Most of the sales and costs of Seaboard's divisions are significantly influenced by worldwide fluctuations in commodity prices or changes in foreign political and economic conditions. Accordingly, sales, operating income and cash flows can fluctuate significantly from year to year. In addition, Seaboard's international activities pose risks not faced by companies that limit themselves to United States markets. These risks include: - changes in foreign currency exchange rates; - foreign currency exchange controls; - changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets; - hyperinflation; - heightened customer credit and execution risk; - tariffs, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; - potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; - different legal and regulatory structures and unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements; and - negative perception within a foreign country of a United States company doing business in that foreign country. Seaboard cannot provide assurance that it will be successful in competing effectively in international markets. (3) Deterioration of Economic Conditions Could Negatively Impact Seaboard's Business. Seaboard's business may be adversely affected by changes in national or global economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, availability of capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. Any such changes could adversely affect the demand for our meat products, grains and shipping services, or the cost and availability of our needed raw materials and packaging materials, thereby negatively affecting our financial results. The current national and global economic conditions, could, among other things: - impair the financial condition of some of our customers and suppliers thereby increasing customer bad debts or non-performance by customers and suppliers; - negatively impact global demand for protein and grain- based products, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows; - decrease the value of our investments in equity and debt securities, including pension plan assets; and - impair the financial viability of our insurers. (4) Ocean Transportation Has Inherent Risks. Seaboard's owned and chartered vessels along with related cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as: - marine disasters; - bad weather; - mechanical failures; - grounding, fire, explosions and collisions; - human error; and - war, piracy and terrorism. 9 All of these hazards can result in death or injury to persons, loss of property, environmental damages, delays or rerouting. If one of Seaboard's vessels were involved in an accident, the resulting media coverage could have a material adverse effect on Seaboard's business, financial condition and results of operations. (5) Seaboard's Common Stock is Thinly Traded and Subject to Daily Price Fluctuations. The common stock of Seaboard is closely held (73.5% is collectively owned by Seaboard Flour and SFC Preferred LLC, which are owned by S. Bresky and other members of the Bresky family) and thinly traded on a daily basis on the NYSE Amex Equities. Accordingly, the price of a share of common stock can fluctuate more significantly from day-to- day than that of a share of widely held stock that is actively traded on a daily basis. (b) Pork Division (1) Fluctuations in Commodity Pork Prices Could Adversely Affect Seaboard's Results of Operations. Sales prices for Seaboard's pork products are directly affected by both domestic and world wide supply and demand for pork products and other proteins, all of which are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand as well as other factors over which Seaboard has little or no control. Commodity pork prices demonstrate a cyclical nature over periods of years, reflecting changes in the supply of fresh pork and competing proteins on the market, especially beef and chicken. Seaboard's results of operations could be adversely affected by fluctuations in pork commodity prices. (2) Increases in Costs of Seaboard's Feed Components and Hog Purchases Could Adversely Affect Seaboard's Costs and Operating Margins. Feed costs are the most significant single component of the cost of raising hogs and can be materially affected by commodity price fluctuations for corn and soybean meal. The results of Seaboard's Pork Division can be negatively affected by increased costs of Seaboard's feed components. The recent increase in construction and operation of ethanol plants has elevated this risk as it has increased the competing demand for feed ingredients, primarily corn. Similarly, accounting for approximately 25% of Seaboard's total hogs slaughtered, the cost of third party hogs purchased fluctuates with market conditions and can have an impact on Seaboard's total costs. The cost and supply of feed components and the third party hogs that we purchase are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand, which are driven by matters over which we have no control, including weather, current and projected worldwide grain stocks and prices, grain export prices and supports and governmental agricultural policies. Seaboard attempts to manage certain of these risks through the use of financial instruments, however this may also limit its ability to participate in gains from favorable commodity fluctuations. Unless wholesale pork prices correspondingly increase, increases in the prices of Seaboard's feed components or in the cost of third party hogs purchased would adversely affect Seaboard's operating margins. (3) Seaboard May be Unable to Obtain Appropriate Personnel at Remote Locations. The remote locations of the pork processing plant and live hog operations, and a more restrictive national policy on immigration could negatively affect the availability and cost of labor. Seaboard is dependent on having sufficient properly trained operations personnel. Attracting and retaining qualified personnel is important to Seaboard's success. The inability to acquire and retain the services of such personnel could have a material adverse effect on Seaboard's operations. (4) The Loss of Seaboard's Sole Hog Processing Facility Could Adversely Affect Seaboard's Business. Seaboard's Pork Division is largely dependent on the continued operation of a single hog processing facility. The loss of or damage to this facility for any reason - including fire, tornado, governmental action or other reason - could adversely affect Seaboard and Seaboard's pork business. (5) Environmental Regulation and Related Litigation Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Seaboard. Seaboard's operations and properties are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent laws and regulations pertaining to, among other things, odors, the discharge of materials into the environment and the handling and disposition of wastes (including solid and hazardous wastes) or otherwise relating to protection of the environment. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations and any future changes to them may result in significant consequences to Seaboard, including civil and criminal penalties, liability for damages and negative publicity. Some requirements applicable to Seaboard may also be enforced by citizen groups. Seaboard has incurred, and will continue to incur, operating expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations. (6) Health Risk to Livestock Could Adversely Affect Production, the Supply of Raw Materials and Seaboard's Business. Seaboard is subject to risks relating to its ability to maintain animal health and control diseases. The general health of the hogs and the reproductive performance of the sows can have an adverse impact on production and production costs, the supply of raw material to Seaboard's pork processing operations and consumer confidence. If Seaboard's hogs are affected by disease, Seaboard may be required to destroy infected livestock, which could adversely affect 10 Seaboard's production or ability to sell or export its products. Moreover, the herd health of third party suppliers could adversely affect the supply and cost of hogs available for purchase by Seaboard. Adverse publicity concerning any disease or health concern could also cause customers to lose confidence in the safety and quality of Seaboard's food products. (7) If Seaboard's Pork Products Become Contaminated, We May be Subject to Product Liability Claims and Product Recalls. Pork products may be subject to contamination by disease producing organisms. These organisms are generally found in the environment and as a result, regardless of the manufacturing practices employed, there is a risk that they could be present in Seaboard's processed pork products as a result of food processing. Once contaminated products have been shipped for distribution, illness and death may result if the organisms are not eliminated at the further processing, foodservice or consumer level. Even an inadvertent shipment of contaminated products is a violation of law and may lead to increased risk of exposure to product liability claims, product recalls and increased scrutiny by federal and state regulatory agencies and may have a material adverse effect on Seaboard's business, reputation, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. (8) Corporate Farming Legislation Could Result in the Divestiture or Restructuring of Seaboard's Pork Operations. The development of large corporate farming operations and concentration of hog production in larger-scale facilities has engendered opposition from residents of states in which Seaboard conducts its pork processing and live hog operations. From time-to-time, corporate farming legislation has been introduced in the United States Senate and House of Representatives, as well as in several state legislatures. These proposed anti-corporate farming bills have included provisions to prohibit or restrict meat packers, such as Seaboard, from owning or controlling livestock intended for slaughter, which would require divestiture or restructuring of Seaboard's operations. (9) International Trade Barriers Could Adversely Affect Seaboard's Pork Operations. This division realizes a significant portion of its revenues from international markets, particularly Japan and Mexico. International sales are subject to risks related to general economic conditions, imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other restrictions, enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions and compliance with applicable foreign laws, and other economic and political uncertainties. These and other risks could result in border closings or other international trade barriers having an adverse effect on Seaboard's earnings. (10) Discontinuation of Tax Credits for Biodiesel Could Adversely Affect Seaboard's Results of Operations. Seaboard obtains Federal and State tax credits for the biodiesel it produces and sells. The Federal tax credit expired on December 31, 2009, but was renewed by Congress in late December 2010 retroactive to January 1, 2010 with a new expiration date of December 31, 2011. If Congress does not extend this tax credit beyond 2011 and other factors including government mandates to use biofuels don't create sufficient demand, Seaboard's results of operations could be adversely affected and the recorded value of property, plant and equipment related to the biodiesel processing facility could be impaired. (11) Operations of Biodiesel Production Facility. The profitability of Seaboard's biodiesel plant could be adversely affected by various factors, including the market price of pork and other animal fat which is utilized to produce biodiesel, and the market price for biodiesel. Unfavorable changes in these prices over extended periods of time could adversely affect Seaboard's results of operations and could result in the potential impairment of the recorded value of the property, plant and equipment related to this facility. (c) Commodity Trading & Milling Division (1) Seaboard's Commodity & Milling Division is Subject to Risks Associated with Foreign Operations. This division principally operates in Africa, Bermuda, South America and the Caribbean and, in most cases, in what are generally regarded to be lesser developed countries. Many of these foreign operations are subject to risks of doing business in lesser-developed countries which are subject to potential civil unrests and government instabilities, increasing the exposure to potential expropriation, confiscation, war, insurrection, civil strife and revolution, currency inconvertibility and devaluation, and currency exchange controls, in addition to the risks of overseas operations mentioned in clause (a)(2) above. In addition, foreign government policies and regulations could restrict the purchase of various grains, reducing or limiting Seaboard's ability to access grains or to limit Seaboard's sales price for grains sold in local markets. (2) Fluctuations in Commodity Grain Prices Could Adversely Affect the Business of Seaboard's Commodity & Milling Division. This division's sales are significantly affected by fluctuating worldwide prices for various commodities, such as wheat, corn, soybeans and rice. These prices are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand as well as other factors over which Seaboard has little or no control. North American and European 11 subsidized wheat and flour exports, including donated food aid, and world-wide and local crop production can contribute to these fluctuating market conditions and can have a significant impact on the trading and milling businesses' sales, value of commodities held in inventory and operating income. Seaboard's results of operations could be adversely affected by fluctuations in commodity prices. (3) Seaboard's Commodity & Milling Division Largely Depends on the Availability of Chartered Ships. Most of Seaboard's third party trading is transported with chartered ships. Charter hire rates, influenced by available charter capacity and demand for worldwide trade in bulk cargoes, port access and throughput time, and related fuel costs can impact business volumes and margins. (4) This Division Uses a Material Amount of Derivative Products to Manage Certain Market Risks. The commodity trading portion of the business enters into various commodity derivatives, foreign exchange derivatives and freight derivatives to create what management believes is an economic hedge for commodity trades it executes or intends to execute with its customers. From time to time, this portion of the business may enter into speculative derivative transactions related to its market risks. Failure to execute or improper execution of a derivative position or a firmly committed sale or purchase contract, a speculative transaction that closes without the desired result or exposure to counter party risk could have an adverse impact on the results of operations and liquidity. (5) This Division is Subject to Higher than Normal Risks for Attracting and Retaining Key Personnel. In the commodity trading environment, a loss of a key employee such as a commodity trader can have a negative impact resulting from the loss of revenues as personal customer relationships can be vital to obtaining and retaining business with various foreign customers. In the milling portion of this division, employing and retaining qualified expatriate personnel is a key element of success given the difficult living conditions, the unique operating environments and the reliance on a relatively small number of executives to manage each individual location. (d) Marine Division (1) The Demand for Seaboard's Marine Division's Services Are Affected by International Trade and Fluctuating Freight Rates. This division provides containerized cargo shipping services primarily from the United States to twenty-six different countries in the Caribbean Basin, Central and South America. In addition to the risks of overseas operations mentioned in clause (a)(2) above, fluctuations in economic conditions, unstable or hostile local political situations in the countries in which Seaboard operates can affect import/export trade volumes and the price of container freight rates and adversely affect Seaboard's results of operations. (2) Chartered Ships Are Subject to Fluctuating Rates. Time charter expenses are one of the division's largest expenses. Certain ships are under charters longer than one year while others are less than one year. These costs can vary greatly due to a number of factors including the worldwide supply and demand for shipping. It is not possible to determine in advance whether a charter contract for more or less than one year will be favorable to Seaboard's business. Accordingly, entering into long-term charter hire contracts during periods of decreasing charter hire costs or short term charter hire contracts during periods of increasing charter hire costs could have an adverse effect on Seaboard's results of operation. (3) Increased Fuel Prices May Adversely Affect Seaboard's Business. Ship fuel expenses are one of the division's largest expenses. These costs can vary greatly from year-to- year depending on world fuel prices. Also, but to a lesser extent, fuel price increases can impact the cost of inland transportation costs. (4) Hurricanes May Disrupt Operations in the Caribbean Basin. Seaboard's port operations throughout the Caribbean Basin can be subject to disruption due to hurricanes, especially at Seaboard's major ports in Miami, Florida and Houston, Texas, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 12 (5) Seaboard is Subject to Complex Laws and Regulations that May Adversely Affect the Revenues, Cost, Manner or Feasibility of Doing Business. Federal, state and local laws and domestic and international regulations governing worker health and safety, environmental protection, port and terminal security, and the operation of vessels significantly affect Seaboard's operations, including rate discussions and other related arrangements. Many aspects of the marine industry, including rate agreements, are subject to extensive governmental regulation by the Federal Maritime Commission, the U.S. Coast Guard, and U.S. Customs and Border Protection, and to regulation by private industry organizations. Compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes, while the failure to comply may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of Seaboard's operations or detention of its vessels. In addition, future changes in laws, regulations and standards, including allowed freight rate discussions and other related arrangements, may result in additional costs or a reduction in revenues. (e) Sugar Division (1) The Success of this Division Depends on the Condition of the Argentinean Economy and Political Climate. This division operates a sugar mill and alcohol production facility in Argentina, locally growing a substantial portion of the sugar cane processed at the mill. The majority of the sales are within Argentina. Fluctuations in economic conditions or changes in the Argentine political climate can have an impact on the costs of operations, the sales prices of products and export opportunities and the exchange rate of the Argentine peso to the U.S. dollar. In this regard, local sales prices are affected by government price control and sugar import duties imposed by the Argentine government, impacting local volume sold, as well as imported and exported volumes to and from international markets. If import duties are changed, this could have a negative impact on Seaboard's sale price of its products. In addition, the Argentine government attempts to control inflation through price controls on commodities, including sugar, which could adversely impact the local sales price of its products and the results of operations for this division. A devaluation of the Argentine peso would have a negative impact on Seaboard's financial position. (2) This Division is Subject to the Risks that Are Inherent in any Agricultural Business. Seaboard's results of operations for this division may be adversely affected by numerous factors over which we have little or no control and that are inherent in any agricultural business, including reductions in the market prices for Seaboard's products, adverse weather and growing conditions, pest and disease problems, and new government regulations regarding agriculture and the marketing of agricultural products. Of these risks, weather particularly can adversely affect the amount and quality of the sugar cane produced by Seaboard and Seaboard's competitors located in other regions of Argentina. (3) The Loss of Seaboard's Sole Processing Facility Would Adversely Affect the Business of This Division. Seaboard's Sugar Division is largely dependant on the continued operation of a single processing facility. The loss of or damage to this facility for any reason - including fire, tornado, governmental action, labor unrest resulting in labor strikes or other reasons - would adversely affect the business of this division. (4) Labor Relations. This division is dependent on unionized labor at its single sugar mill in Argentina. The current nature of the political environment in Argentina makes normal labor relations very challenging. Contributing to the situation are the policies of Argentina's National Government, the failure of the Argentine courts to enforce contractual obligations with unions and basic property rights. Interruptions in production as a result of labor unrest can adversely impact the quantity of sugar cane harvested and the amount of sugar and alcohol produced and can interfere with the distribution of products stored at the facility in the Salta Province. (f) Power Division (1) This Division is Subject to Risks of Doing Business in the Dominican Republic. This division operates in the Dominican Republic (DR). In addition to significant currency fluctuations and the other risks of overseas operations mentioned in clause (a)(2) above, this division can experience difficulty in obtaining timely collections of trade receivables from the government partially-owned distribution companies or other companies that must also collect from the government in order to make payments on their accounts. Currently, the DR does not allow a free market to enable prices to rise with demand which would limit our profitability in this business. The government has the ability to arbitrarily decide which power units will be able to operate, which could have adverse effects on results of operations. 13 (2) Increases in Fuel Costs Could Adversely Affect Seaboard's Operating Margins. Fuel is the largest cost component of this division's business and, therefore, margins may be adversely affected by fluctuations in fuel if such increases can not be fully passed to customers. (3) Seaboard could Incur Significant Damages if it Fails to Meet Obligations Under A Power Barge Sale Agreement. Seaboard's agreement to sell its Dominican Republic barges requires that it meet certain performance standards at closing. If these standards are not met, Seaboard would be in breach of the agreement and may incur significant damages for that breach. (g) Turkey Segment (1) Fluctuations in Commodity Turkey Prices Could Adversely Affect the Results of Operations. Sales prices for turkey products are directly affected by both domestic and world wide supply and demand for turkey products which are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand as well as other factors over which Butterball has little or no control. Butterball's results of operations and Seaboard's investment in Butterball could be adversely affected by fluctuations in the turkey commodity prices. (2) Increases in Costs of Turkey's Feed Components and Turkey Purchases Could Adversely Affect Costs and Operating Margins. Feed costs are the most significant single component of the cost of raising turkeys and can be materially affected by commodity price fluctuations for corn, soybean meal, and other commodity grain inputs. Butterball's results may be negatively affected by increased costs of the feed components. The recent increase in construction and operation of ethanol plants has elevated this risk as it has increased the competing demand for feed ingredients, primarily corn. Butterball attempts to manage some of these risks through the use of financial instruments; however this may also limit its ability to participate in gains from favorable commodity fluctuations. Unless wholesale turkey prices correspondingly increase, increases in the prices of Butterball's feed components would adversely affect Butterball's results of operations and Seaboard's investment in Butterball. (3) Decreased Perception of Value in the Butterball's Brand Could Adversely Affect Sales Quantity and Price of Butterball Products. Butterball is a premium brand name, built on a long history of offering a quality product that has been differentiated in the market. The value of the Butterball brand allows for sales of a higher unit price than other turkey products. In order to maintain this advantage, Butterball must continue to support the brand with successful marketing efforts. In addition, negative news reports for any reason in a variety of areas on the company or the turkey/poultry industry could negatively impact this brand perception and Butterball's results of operation and the value of Seaboard's investment in Butterball. (4) The Loss of Butterball's Primary Further Processing Facility Could Adversely Affect Butterball's Business. Although Butterball has five processing plants, Butterball is disproportionately dependent on the continued operation of the further processing plant in Mt. Olive, North Carolina that handles the significant production of further processed turkey products. The loss of or damage to this facility for any reason - including fire, tornado, governmental action or other reason - could adversely affect the results of operation for Butterball and the value of Seaboard's investment in Butterball. (5) If Butterball's Turkey Products Become Contaminated, the Company May be subject to Product Liability Claims and Product Recalls. Turkey products may be subject to contamination by disease producing organisms. These organisms are generally found in the environment and as a result, there is a risk that they may contaminate products. Even an inadvertent shipment of contaminated products is a violation of law and may lead to increased risk of exposure to product liability claims, product recalls and increased scrutiny by federal and state regulatory agencies and may have a material adverse effect on the company's business, reputation, and prospects. This could adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of Butterball and the value of the Seaboards investment in Butterball. (6) Health Risk to Poultry Could Adversely Affect Production, the Supply of Raw Materials and Butterball's Business. Butterball is subject to risks relating to its ability to maintain animal health and control diseases. The general health of the turkeys and reproductive performance can have an adverse impact on production and production costs, the supply of raw material to Butterball's processing operations and consumer confidence. If Butterball's turkeys are affected by disease, Butterball may be required to destroy infected birds, which could adversely affect Butterball's production or ability to sell or export its products. Adverse publicity concerning any disease or health concern could also cause customers to lose confidence in the safety and quality of Butterball food products, resulting in an adverse affect on Butterball's results of operations and the value of Seaboards investment in Butterball. 14 (7) Butterball May be Unable to Obtain Appropriate Personnel at Remote Locations. The remote locations of some of the turkey processing plants and live turkey operations along with a more restrictive national policy on immigration could negatively affect the availability and cost of labor. Butterball is dependent on having sufficient properly trained operations personnel. Attracting and retaining qualified personnel is important to Butterball's success. The inability to acquire and retain the services of such personnel could have a material adverse effect on Butterball's operations and the value of Seaboards investment in Butterball. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 