Item 1A. Risk Factors CAUTIONARY FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS Except for the historical information contained herein or incorporated by reference, this annual report on Form 10-K and the information incorporated by reference contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. These statements include projections about our accounting and finances, plans and objectives for the future, future operating and economic performance and other statements regarding future performance. These statements are not guarantees of future performance or events. Our actual results may differ materially from those discussed here. Factors that could cause or contribute to differences in our actual results include those discussed in the following section, as well as those discussed in Part II, Item 7 entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere throughout this annual report on Form 10-K and in any other documents incorporated by reference into this report. You should consider carefully the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included or incorporated in this annual report on Form 10-K. Each of these risk factors, either alone or taken together, could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. There may be additional risks that we do not presently know of or that we currently believe are immaterial which could also impair our business and financial position. We have a history of operating losses, anticipate future losses and may never become profitable. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception in 1987, including losses of $543.4 million in 2011, $152.3 million in 2010 and $186.3 million in 2009. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $2.6 billion. The extent of our future losses and the timing of potential profitability are uncertain, and we may never achieve profitable operations. We have been engaged in discovering and developing drugs since inception, which has required, and will continue to require, significant research and development expenditures. Our three commercial products, BYDUREON, BYETTA and SYMLIN may not be as commercially successful as we expect and we may not succeed in commercializing any of our other drug candidates, including metreleptin to treat lipodystrophy, if approved. We may incur substantial operating losses for at least the next few years. These losses, among other things, have had and will have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and working capital. Even if we become profitable, we may not remain profitable. We began selling, marketing and distributing our first two products, BYETTA and SYMLIN, in 2005, and our third product, BYDUREON, in 2011, and we will depend heavily on the success of those products in the marketplace. Prior to the launch of BYETTA and SYMLIN in 2005, we had never sold or marketed our own products. Our ability to generate product revenue in the near term depends solely on the success of these products and BYDUREON, which received 16 marketing authorization from the European Commission in June 2011 and FDA approval in January 2012. The ability of BYDUREON, BYETTA and SYMLIN to generate revenue at the levels we expect will depend on many factors, including the following: • our ability to successfully launch BYDUREON in the United States; • our ability to secure a new partner to assist in the development and commercialization of our exenatide franchise outside the United States; • the ability of patients in the current uncertain economic climate to be able to afford our medications or obtain health care coverage that covers our products; • acceptance of and ongoing satisfaction with these novel medicines in the United States and foreign markets by the medical community, patients receiving therapy and third party payers; • a satisfactory efficacy and safety profile as demonstrated in a broad patient population; • successfully expanding and sustaining manufacturing capacity to meet demand; • safety concerns in the marketplace for diabetes therapies; • the competitive landscape for approved and developing therapies that will compete with the products; and • our ability to expand the indications for which we can market the products. If we encounter safety issues with BYDUREON, BYETTA or SYMLIN or any other drugs we market or fail to comply with extensive continuing regulations enforced by domestic and foreign regulatory authorities, it could cause us to discontinue marketing those drugs, reduce our revenues and harm our ability to generate future revenues, which would negatively impact our financial position. BYDUREON, BYETTA and SYMLIN, in addition to any other of our drug candidates that may be approved by the FDA, will be subject to continual review by the FDA, and we cannot assure you that newly discovered or developed safety issues will not arise. With the use of any of our marketed drugs by a wide patient population, serious adverse events may occur from time to time that initially do not appear to relate to the drug itself, and only if the specific event occurs with some regularity over a period of time does the drug become suspect as having a causal relationship to the adverse event. Some patients taking BYETTA have reported developing pancreatitis. We are working to better understand the relationship between BYETTA and pancreatitis described in some spontaneously reported cases. In keeping with our focus on patient safety, we continue to pursue our drug safety program that includes thorough investigation of individual spontaneous case reports along with clinical and epidemiologic studies. Within the detection limits of an initial epidemiology study which we provided to the FDA, we have not observed an increased incidence of pancreatitis associated with BYETTA use compared to other treatments for diabetes and thus believe a definite causal relationship between BYETTA and pancreatitis has not been proved. In addition, since BYETTA was introduced, we have received other reports of adverse events, including rare reports of acute renal failure in patients using BYETTA, and in pre-clinical studies of BYDUREON, observations were made of C-cell tumors in animals. Although direct relationships have not been established, it may be difficult to rule out any particular direct relationship at any point in time for these or other reports of adverse events or observations that may be made. Any safety issues could cause us to suspend or cease marketing of our approved products, cause us to modify how we market our approved products, subject us to substantial liabilities, and adversely affect our revenues and financial condition. Moreover, the marketing of our approved products will be subject to extensive regulatory requirements administered by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, including adverse event reporting requirements and the FDA’s general prohibition against promoting products for unapproved uses. The manufacturing facilities for our approved products are also subject to continual review and periodic inspection and approval of manufacturing modifications. Manufacturing facilities that manufacture drug products for the United States market, whether they are located inside or outside the United States, are subject to biennial inspections by the FDA and must comply with the FDA’s current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP, regulations. The FDA stringently applies regulatory standards for manufacturing. Failure to comply with any of these post-approval requirements can, among other things, result in warning letters, product seizures, recalls, fines, injunctions, suspensions or revocations of marketing licenses, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. Any of these enforcement actions, any unanticipated changes in existing regulatory requirements or the adoption of new requirements, or any safety issues that arise with any approved products, could adversely affect our ability to market products and generate revenues and thus adversely affect our ability to continue our business. The manufacturers of our products and drug candidates also are subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control and hazardous substance disposal. In the future, our manufacturers may incur significant costs to comply with those laws and regulations, which could increase our manufacturing costs and reduce our ability to operate profitably. 17 We currently do not manufacture BYETTA and SYMLIN product, our bulk exenatide or pramlintide or our drug candidates and may not be able to obtain adequate supplies. This could cause delays, subject us to product shortages, or reduce product sales. If our BYDUREON manufacturing facility is damaged, rendered inoperable or does not comply with regulatory requirements, we may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of BYDUREON. The manufacturing of sufficient quantities of newly-approved drug products and drug candidates is a time-consuming and complex process. We currently have no manufacturing capabilities for two of our three marketed drug products, BYETTA and SYMLIN. In order to successfully supply our products and continue to develop our drug candidates we rely on various third parties to provide the necessary manufacturing. There are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under the FDA’s cGMP regulations capable of manufacturing for us. In addition, there are a limited number of bulk drug substance suppliers, cartridge manufacturers and disposable pen manufacturers. If we are not able to arrange for and maintain third-party manufacturing on commercially reasonable terms, or we lose one of our sole source suppliers used for our existing products or for some components of our manufacturing processes for our products or drug candidates, we may not be able to market our products or complete development of our drug candidates on a timely basis, if at all. Reliance on third-party suppliers limits our ability to control certain aspects of the manufacturing process and therefore exposes us to a variety of significant risks, including, but not limited to, risks to our ability to supply or commercialize our products or conduct clinical trials, risks of reliance on the third-party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance, third-party refusal to supply on a long-term basis, or at all, the possibility of breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third-party and the possibility of termination or non-renewal of the agreement by the third-party, based on its business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. In addition, reliance on single-source suppliers subjects us to the risk of price increases by these suppliers which could negatively impact our operating margins. If any of these risks occur, our product supply will be interrupted resulting in lost or delayed revenues and delayed clinical trials. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers for the production of our commercial products is described in more detail below. Our Ohio manufacturing facility has been approved by the FDA and the EMA for manufacturing BYDUREON for commercial distribution in the United States and the European Union, respectively. In order to continue manufacturing BYDUREON for these two geographic locations, we must maintain these regulatory approvals. Further, in order to manufacture BYDUREON for commercialization in additional jurisdictions, we will need to gain regulatory approvals from such jurisdictions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to successfully operate our manufacturing facility in accordance with FDA or EMA regulations or the regulations of any other geographic location. In addition, we are dependent on Alkermes to supply us with commercial quantities of the polymer required to manufacture BYDUREON. We also will need to obtain sufficient supplies of diluent, solvents, devices, packaging and other components necessary for commercial manufacture of BYDUREON. We are dependent upon Mallinckrodt and Lonza to manufacture our long-term commercial supply of bulk exenatide, the active ingredient in BYDUREON, and upon single suppliers to produce components for packaging BYDUREON. Our Ohio facility is currently the only manufacturing capacity available to us for the production of BYDUREON. Equipment failures, natural disasters, power outages or other catastrophic events, such as a severe storm or fire, could cause interruptions or delays in our ability to manufacture BYDUREON. If we experience equipment failures, or our manufacturing facility is damaged by a natural disaster or other catastrophic event, or if severe weather conditions prevent us from delivering BYDUREON to meet market needs in a timely manner, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely impacted. We rely on Bachem and Mallinckrodt to manufacture our long-term commercial supply of bulk exenatide, the active ingredient in BYETTA. In addition, we rely on single-source manufacturers for some of our raw materials used by Bachem and Mallinckrodt to produce bulk exenatide. We also rely on Wockhardt and Baxter to manufacture the dosage form of BYETTA in cartridges. We are further dependent upon Lilly to supply pens for delivery of BYETTA in cartridges. We rely on Bachem and Lonza to manufacture our commercial supply of bulk pramlintide acetate, the active ingredient contained in SYMLIN. We rely on Wockhardt for the dosage form of SYMLIN in cartridges and Ypsomed AG to manufacture the components for the SYMLIN disposable pen. We also rely on Sharp Corporation for the assembly of the SYMLIN pen. If any of our existing or future manufacturers cease to manufacture or are otherwise unable to timely deliver sufficient quantities of BYETTA or SYMLIN, in either bulk or dosage form, or other product components, including pens for the delivery of these products, it could disrupt our ability to market our products, subject us to product shortages, reduce product sales and/or reduce our profit margins. Any delay or disruption in the manufacturing of bulk product, the dosage form of our products or other product components, including pens for delivery of our products, could also harm our reputation in the 18 medical and patient communities. In addition, we may need to engage additional manufacturers so that we will be able to continue our commercialization and development efforts for these products or drug candidates. The cost and time to establish these new manufacturing facilities would be substantial. Our manufacturers have produced BYETTA and SYMLIN for commercial use for approximately seven years, however, unforeseeable risks related to environmental, economic, technical or other issues may be encountered as we, together with our manufacturers, continue to develop familiarity and experience with regard to manufacturing our products. Furthermore, we and the other manufacturers used for our drug candidates may not be able to produce supplies in commercial quantities if our drug candidates are approved. While we believe that business relations between us and our manufacturers are generally good, we cannot predict whether any of the manufacturers that we may use will meet our requirements for quality, quantity or timeliness for the manufacture of bulk exenatide or pramlintide acetate, dosage form of BYETTA or SYMLIN, or pens. Therefore, we may not be able to obtain necessary supplies of products with acceptable quality, on acceptable terms or in sufficient quantities, if at all. Our dependence on third parties for the manufacture of products may also reduce our gross profit margins and our ability to develop and deliver products in a timely manner. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. We may not be able to make payments on our indebtedness, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future, which could adversely affect our operations. In June 2007, we issued $575 million of the 2007 Notes and in May 2011 we borrowed $165 million from Lilly under the Lilly Loan. Our ability to make payments on our debt, including the 2007 Notes and the Lilly Loan, will depend on our future operating performance and ability to generate cash and may also depend on our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing. During three of the last five years, our operating cash flows were negative and insufficient to cover our fixed costs. We will need to use cash to pay principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available to fund our research and development programs, strategic initiatives and working capital requirements. Our ability to generate sufficient operating cash flow and revenues to service our indebtedness and fund our operating requirements will depend on our ability, alone or with others, to successfully develop, manufacture, obtain required regulatory approvals for and market our drug products and candidates, as well as other factors, including general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory conditions, some of which are beyond our control. Our debt service increases our vulnerabilities to competitive pressures because many of our competitors are less leveraged than we are. If we are unable to generate sufficient operating cash flow and revenues to service our indebtedness and fund our operating requirements, we may be forced to reduce or defer our development programs, sell assets or seek additional debt or equity financing, which may not be available to us on satisfactory terms or at all. Our level of indebtedness may make us more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns. If we incur new indebtedness, the risks relating to our business and our ability to service our indebtedness and other financial obligations will intensify. We have a substantial revenue sharing obligation payable to Lilly that is secured by certain of our assets. If we are unable to make payments on our revenue sharing obligation, our operations and financial position could be harmed. In connection with the termination of our collaboration with Lilly in November 2011, we incurred a $1.2 billion revenue sharing obligation payable to Lilly, or the Revenue Sharing Obligation, and entered into a promissory note in favor of Lilly in the initial principal amount of $1.2 billion, secured by certain of our assets and certain assets of our subsidiaries. We also entered into a security agreement with Lilly pursuant to which we and our Ohio subsidiary granted to Lilly, as collateral to secure payment of principal, interest and certain expenses under the promissory note, a security interest in intellectual property relating to our exenatide products, United States regulatory approvals relating to our exenatide products, certain third party license agreements, certain deposit accounts into which counterparties of such license agreements are required to make payments, certain third party supply agreements, inventory and a supply agreement for BYDUREON between us and our Ohio subsidiary. Under the promissory note an event of default would occur if we fail to make payments under the Revenue Sharing Obligation, or upon certain other events as set forth in the promissory note. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an event of default, all outstanding amounts under the promissory note may be declared due and payable (and in the case of a bankruptcy event of default, such obligations will automatically become due and payable), and Lilly may exercise its rights with respect to the collateral under the security agreement. If Lilly successfully exercises its rights with respect to the collateral, Lilly will be able to, among other things, sell, lease, license or otherwise dispose of the collateral, enforce our rights in the intellectual property, license agreements and supply agreements relating to BYETTA and BYDUREON (including bringing intellectual property infringement actions against third parties and acquiring the rights to receive BYDUREON supply under an intercompany supply agreement between us and our Ohio subsidiary) and directly collect payments from counterparties of the license agreements that such counterparties would otherwise be required to pay to us. Any such successful exercise by Lilly of its rights with respect to the collateral could have a negative impact on our day-to-day operations, financial condition and operating results. 19 Our ability to generate revenues will be diminished if we fail to obtain acceptable prices or an adequate level of reimbursement for our products from third-party payers. The continuing efforts of government, private health insurers and other third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means, including efforts to increase the amount of patient co-pay obligations, may limit our commercial opportunity. In the United States, the Federal government recently passed health care reform legislation. Many of the details regarding the implementation of this legislation have yet to be determined and implementation may ultimately adversely affect our business. Further, we expect that there will continue to be a number of federal and state proposals to implement government control over the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals. In addition, increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States will continue to put pressure on the rate of adoption and pricing of pharmaceutical products. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of health care products. Third-party payers, including Medicare, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Government and other third-party payers increasingly are attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new drugs and by refusing to provide coverage for uses of approved products for disease indications for which the FDA has not granted labeling approval. Third-party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for BYDUREON, BYETTA and/or SYMLIN or any other products we discover and develop. If government and other third-party payers do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for our products, the market acceptance of these products may be reduced. Competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries may result in competing products, superior marketing of other products and lower revenues or profits for us. There are many companies that are seeking to develop products and therapies for the treatment of diabetes and other metabolic disorders. Our competitors include multinational pharmaceutical and chemical companies, specialized biotechnology firms and universities and other research institutions. A number of our largest competitors, including AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, GlaxoSmithKline, Lilly, Merck & Co., Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Pfizer, Sanofi-Aventis, Roche and Takeda, are pursuing the development or marketing of pharmaceuticals that target the same diseases that we are targeting. For example, in 2010, Novo Nordisk obtained approval of and commercially launched a GLP-1 receptor agonist to treat type 2 diabetes. In addition, Lilly is developing a GLP-1 receptor agonist to treat type 2 diabetes and has announced a global alliance with Boehringer Ingelheim to jointly develop and commercialize a portfolio of diabetes compounds which Lilly has announced includes a SGLT-2 inhibitor and a DPP-IV inhibitor that has been approved by the FDA and the European Commission. These products all compete for patients in the diabetes space. It is possible that the number of companies seeking to develop products and therapies for the treatment of diabetes, obesity and other metabolic disorders will increase. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, sales force, human and other resources than we do and may be better equipped to develop, manufacture and market technologically superior products. In addition, many of these competitors have significantly greater experience than we do in undertaking preclinical testing and human clinical studies of new pharmaceutical products and in obtaining regulatory approvals of human therapeutic products. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining FDA approval for competing and possibly superior products. Furthermore, now that we have received FDA approval for BYDUREON, BYETTA and SYMLIN, we may also be competing against other companies with respect to our manufacturing and product distribution efficiency and sales and marketing capabilities, areas in which we have limited experience as an organization. Our target patient population for BYETTA includes people with type 2 diabetes who have not achieved adequate glycemic control with diet and exercise or by using metformin, sulfonylurea and/or a TZD, three common oral therapies for type 2 diabetes, and insulin glargine. Our target population for BYDUREON includes people with type 2 diabetes who have not achieved adequate glycemic control with diet and exercise and our target population for SYMLIN includes people with either type 2 or type 1 diabetes whose therapy includes multiple mealtime insulin injections per day. Other products are currently in development or exist in the market that may compete directly with the products that we are developing or marketing. Various other products are available or in development to treat type 2 diabetes, including, for example: • sulfonylureas; • metformin; • insulins, including injectable and inhaled versions; • TZDs and other PPAR or non-PPAR insulin sensitizers; • glinides; • DPP-IV inhibitors; • incretin/GLP-1 receptor agonists; 20 • alpha-glucosidase inhibitors; and • sodium-glucose transporter-2 (SGLT-2) inhibitors. In addition, several companies are developing various approaches, including alternative delivery methods, to improve treatments for type 1 and type 2 diabetes. We cannot predict whether our products will have sufficient advantages to cause health care professionals to adopt them over other products or that our products will offer an economically feasible alternative to other products. Our products could become obsolete before we recover expenses incurred in developing these products. Our business has a substantial risk of product liability claims, and insurance may not be adequate to cover these claims. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of human therapeutic products. As of December 31, 2011, we were involved in approximately 114 separate product liability cases, certain of which cases have been brought by individuals who allege they have used BYETTA and generally seek compensatory and punitive damages for alleged injuries, consisting primarily of pancreatitis and, in some cases, alleged wrongful death. We have also been notified of other claims of individuals who have not filed suit. We currently have limited product liability insurance coverage for existing claims and any future related claims and we expect to be largely self-insured for any future product liability risks that are not covered by existing insurance. Product liability claims could result in the imposition of substantial defense costs and liability on us, a recall of products, or a change in the indications for which they may be used. We cannot assure you that our insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Delays in the conduct or completion of our clinical trials, the analysis of the data from our clinical trials or our manufacturing scale-up activities may result in delays in our planned filings for regulatory approvals of our products or delays in completion of post-marketing studies and requirements, and may adversely affect our ability to enter into new collaborative arrangements. We cannot predict whether we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical studies that will cause us to delay or suspend our ongoing and planned clinical studies, delay the analysis of data from our completed or ongoing clinical studies or perform additional clinical studies prior to receiving necessary regulatory approvals. We also cannot predict whether we will encounter delays or an inability to create manufacturing processes for drug candidates that allow us to produce drug product in sufficient quantities to be economical, otherwise known as manufacturing scale-up. If the results of our ongoing or planned clinical studies for our drug candidates are not available when we expect or if we encounter any delay in the analysis of data from our clinical studies or if we encounter delays in our ability to scale-up our manufacturing processes: • we may be unable to complete our development programs; • we may have to delay or terminate our planned filings for regulatory approval; • we may encounter delays in the completion of post-marketing requirements for our products; • we may not have the financial resources to continue research and development of any of our drug candidates; and • we may not be able to enter into, if we chose to do so, any additional collaborative arrangements. Any of the following could delay the completion of our ongoing and planned clinical studies: • ongoing discussions with the FDA or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; • delays in enrolling volunteers; • lower than anticipated retention rate of volunteers in a clinical trial; • negative results of clinical studies; • insufficient supply or deficient quality of drug candidate materials or other materials necessary for the performance of clinical trials; • our inability to reach agreement with any future collaboration partner(s) regarding the scope, design, conduct or costs of clinical trials outside the United States with respect to BYETTA, BYDUREON or an exenatide suspension formulation; or • serious side effects experienced by study participants relating to a drug candidate, or other clinical trial observations that may pose a potential safety concern. 21 We and Lilly terminated our exenatide development and commercialization collaboration in late 2011 whereupon we became solely responsible for the development and commercialization of our exenatide products within the United States. Accordingly, Lilly no longer shares exenatide development or commercialization costs and Lilly’s sales force is no longer available for commercializing our exenatide products within the United States. We cannot assure you that our exenatide development and commercial efforts will produce the results we expect. In November 2011, we and Lilly terminated our 10-year collaboration under which Lilly assisted us in the development, production and commercialization of our exenatide products and shared certain exenatide development, production and commercialization costs. Further, a significant number of Lilly’s sales representatives were available for commercializing our exenatide products within the United States. As a result of the termination of our collaboration, we are now solely responsible for developing and commercializing exenatide within the United States. In addition, we will be responsible for many of the functions previously performed by Lilly during the course of our collaboration which we are in the process of transitioning from Lilly to us. While we believe we have an effective transition plan in place for assuming these responsibilities, our exenatide development, production and commercialization efforts may be impaired without the assistance or financial support of a collaboration partner. We cannot assure you that our efforts to transition Lilly’s collaboration responsibilities will proceed according to plan. In addition, we have retained a contract sales force to extend the reach of our sales and marketing organization in order to maintain a comparable level of coverage previously provided by the Lilly field force. Although the new sales organization consists of sales professionals with experience in the pharmaceutical industry, including many with experience selling diabetes products, we cannot assure you that their sales efforts will be effective or produce the results we expect. We are substantially dependent on our arrangement with Lilly and will be substantially dependent on any future exenatide collaboration partner(s) for the development and commercialization of our exenatide products outside the United States. We are also dependent and Alkermes’ technology for the production of BYDUREON. Upon termination of our collaboration with Lilly, we entered into an arrangement with Lilly, who currently markets its own diabetes therapies and is developing additional diabetes drug candidates, to commercialize BYDUREON and BYETTA outside the United States through a transition period until December 31, 2013 or at such later date if (i) mutually agreed by us and Lilly in the event such transition has not occurred by December 31, 2013 or (ii) in certain circumstances as set forth in our transition agreement with Lilly. We entered into this short-term arrangement with Lilly and currently seek to secure a new exenatide partner outside the United States in order to: • fund some of our research and development activities; • assist us in seeking and obtaining regulatory approvals; and • assist us in the successful commercialization of BYDUREON, BYETTA and any other future exenatide products. In general, we cannot control the amount and timing of resources that any collaboration partner(s) may devote to our collaboration. If our partners fail to assist in the further development of our exenatide products or the commercialization of BYDUREON or BYETTA, or if our partner’s efforts are not effective, our business may be negatively affected. In the near-term, we are relying on Lilly, and will continue to rely on any future exenatide collaboration partner, to obtain regulatory approvals for and successfully commercialize BYETTA and BYDUREON outside the United States. Although we are currently in discussions with a number of potential partners, we cannot be certain that we will be able to secure a partner to develop and commercialize our exenatide products outside the United States on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Our collaborations may not continue or result in additional successfully commercialized drugs. If any of our partners ceased funding and/or developing and commercializing BYETTA or BYDUREON, we would have to seek additional sources for funding and may have to delay, reduce or eliminate one or more of our commercialization and development programs for these products. If any of our partners do not successfully commercialize BYETTA or BYDUREON outside the United States, we may receive limited or no revenues from them. In addition, we are dependent on Alkermes’ technology for manufacturing BYDUREON. If Alkermes’ technology does not continue to effectively deliver exenatide in a sustained release formulation, or Alkermes does not devote sufficient resources to the collaboration, our efforts to produce sustained release formulations of exenatide could be curtailed. If our patents are determined to be unenforceable or if we are unable to obtain new patents based on current patent applications or for future inventions, we may not be able to prevent others from using our intellectual property. If we are unable to obtain licenses to third party patent rights for required technologies, we could be adversely affected. We own or hold exclusive rights to many issued United States patents and pending United States patent applications related to the development and commercialization of exenatide, including BYETTA and BYDUREON, SYMLIN and our other drug candidates. These patents and applications cover composition-of-matter, medical indications, methods of use, 22 formulations and other inventive results. We have issued and pending applications for formulations of BYETTA and BYDUREON, but we do not have a composition-of-matter patent covering exenatide. We also own or hold exclusive rights to various foreign patent applications that correspond to issued United States patents or pending United States patent applications. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patent protection for our products and drug candidates and technologies both in the United States and other countries. We cannot guarantee that any patents will issue from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us. Alternatively, a third party may successfully challenge or circumvent our patents. Our rights under any issued patents may not provide us with sufficient protection against competitive products or otherwise cover commercially valuable products or processes. For example, our SYMLIN, BYETTA and BYDUREON products are subject to the provisions of the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, also known as the “Hatch-Waxman Act,” which provides data exclusivity for a certain period of time. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, the data exclusivity period for SYMLIN and BYETTA expired in 2009 such that generic manufacturers can now file Abbreviated New Drug Applications, or ANDAs, requesting the FDA’s approval of generic versions of previously-approved products. If an ANDA is filed for one of our approved products prior to expiration of the patents covering those products, it could result in our initiating patent infringement litigation to enforce our rights. We can provide no assurances that we would prevail in such an action or in any challenge related to our patent rights. In addition, because patent applications in the United States are maintained, in general, in secrecy for 18 months after the filing of the applications, and publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be sure that the inventors of subject matter covered by our patents and patent applications were the first to invent or the first to file patent applications for these inventions. Third parties have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications on inventions similar to ours. From time-to-time we have participated in, and in the future are likely to participate in, interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, which could result in a loss of our patent position. We have also participated in, and in the future are likely to participate in, opposition proceedings against our patents in other jurisdictions, such as Europe and Australia. Furthermore, we may not have identified all United States and foreign patents that pose a risk of infringement. We also rely upon licensing opportunities for some of our technologies. We cannot be certain that we will not lose our rights to certain patented technologies under existing licenses or that we will be able to obtain a license to any required third-party technology. If we lose our licensed technology rights or if we are not able to obtain a required license, we could be adversely affected. We may be unable to obtain regulatory clearance and pricing approval to market our drug candidates in the United States or foreign countries on a timely basis, or at all. Our drug candidates are subject to extensive government regulations related to development, clinical trials, manufacturing and commercialization. The process of obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals is costly, time-consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. Regulatory authorities may refuse to approve an application for approval of a drug candidate, such as metreleptin for the treatment of lipodystrophy, if they believe that applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied. Regulatory authorities may also require additional testing for safety and efficacy. Moreover, if the FDA grants regulatory approval of a product, the approval may be limited to specific indications or limited with respect to its distribution, and expanded or additional indications for approved drugs may not be approved, which could limit our revenues. Foreign regulatory authorities may apply similar limitations or may refuse to grant any approval. Further, even if approval is granted, there can be no assurance that the regulatory authority will grant pricing approval for the drug. Unexpected changes to the FDA or foreign regulatory approval process could also delay or prevent the approval of our drug candidates. The data collected from clinical trials may not be sufficient to support approval of our drug candidates or additional or expanded indications by the FDA or any foreign regulatory authorities. Biotechnology stock prices have declined significantly in certain instances where companies have failed to meet expectations with respect to FDA approval or the timing for FDA approval. If the FDA’s or any foreign regulatory authority’s response is delayed or not favorable for any of our drug candidates our stock price could decline significantly. Moreover, manufacturing facilities operated by us or by the third-party manufacturers with whom we may contract to manufacture our unapproved drug candidates may not pass an FDA or other regulatory authority inspections. Any corrective actions we may need to take as a result of regulatory inspections could cause us or any of our business partners to delay marketing these drug candidates. Consequently, even if we believe that preclinical and clinical data are sufficient to support regulatory approval for our drug candidates, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may not ultimately approve our drug candidates for commercial sale in any jurisdiction. If our drug candidates are not approved, our ability to generate revenues may be limited, our manufacturing facility could become impaired, and our business will be adversely affected. 23 Litigation regarding patents and other proprietary rights may be expensive, cause delays in bringing products to market and harm our ability to operate. Our success will depend in part on our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties and preventing others from infringing our patents. Challenges by pharmaceutical companies against the patents of competitors are common. Legal standards relating to the validity of patents covering pharmaceutical and biotechnological inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents are still developing. As a result, our ability to obtain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Third parties may challenge, in courts or through patent office proceedings, or infringe upon, existing or future patents. In the event that a third party challenges a patent, a court or patent office may invalidate the patent or determine that the patent is not enforceable. Proceedings involving our patents or patent applications or those of others could result in adverse decisions about: • the patentability of our inventions, products and drug candidates; and/or • the enforceability, validity or scope of protection offered by our patents. The manufacture, use or sale of any of our products or drug candidates may infringe on the patent rights of others. If we are unable to avoid infringement of the patent rights of others, we may be required to seek a license, defend an infringement action or challenge the validity of the patents in court. Patent litigation is costly and time consuming. We may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions to a successful conclusion. In addition, if we do not obtain a license, develop or obtain non-infringing technology, fail to successfully defend an infringement action or have infringing patents declared invalid, we may: • incur substantial monetary damages; • encounter significant delays in bringing our drug candidates to market; and/or • be precluded from participating in the manufacture, use or sale of our products or drug candidates or methods of treatment requiring licenses. We are subject to “fraud and abuse” and similar laws and regulations, and a failure to comply with such regulations or prevail in any litigation related to noncompliance could harm our business. We are subject to various health care “fraud and abuse” laws, such as the Federal False Claims Act, the federal anti-kickback statute and other state and federal laws and regulations. Pharmaceutical companies have faced lawsuits and investigations pertaining to violations of these laws and regulations. We cannot guarantee that measures that we have taken to prevent such violations, including our corporate compliance program, will protect us from future violations, lawsuits or investigations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions. Our financial results will fluctuate, and these fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall. Forecasting our future revenues is difficult, especially since we launched our first products, BYETTA and SYMLIN, in 2005 and recently launched a third product, BYDUREON, for commercial sale in the United States in early 2012. The level of market acceptance of these novel products may change rapidly. In addition, our customer base is highly concentrated with four customers accounting for most of our net product sales. Fluctuations in the buying patterns of these customers, which may result from seasonality, wholesaler buying decisions or other factors outside of our control, could significantly affect the level of our net sales on a period to period basis. As a result, it is reasonably likely that our financial results will fluctuate to an extent that may not meet with market expectations and that also may adversely affect our stock price. There are a number of other factors that could cause our financial results to fluctuate unexpectedly, including: • product sales; • cost of product sales; • achievement and timing of research and development milestones; • collaboration revenues; • cost and timing of clinical trials, regulatory approvals and product launches; • marketing and other expenses; • manufacturing or supply issues; and • potential acquisitions of businesses and technologies and our ability to successfully integrate any such acquisitions into our existing business. 24 We may require additional financing in the future, which may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. We intend to use our available cash for: • Commercialization of BYDUREON, BYETTA and SYMLIN, including activities associated with the commercial launch of BYDUREON in 2012; • Satisfaction of our financial obligations to Lilly, including a $1.2 billion revenue sharing obligation; • Establishment of additional manufacturing sources and maintenance of our Ohio manufacturing facility; • Development of our pipeline candidates; • Our other research and development activities; • Other operating expenses; • Potential acquisitions or investments in complementary technologies or businesses; and • Other general corporate purposes. We may also be required to use our cash to pay principal and interest on outstanding debt, including $575 million in outstanding principal amount of convertible senior notes due in 2014, referred to as the 2007 Notes, and $165 million of an unsecured loan from Lilly that is due in 2016, referred to as the Lilly Loan. If we require additional financing in the future, we cannot assure you that it will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. Although we have previously been successful in obtaining financing through our debt and equity securities offerings, there can be no assurance that we will be able to so in the future, especially given the current adverse economic and credit conditions. Our investments in marketable debt securities are subject to credit and market risks that may adversely affect their fair value. We maintain a portfolio of investments in marketable debt securities which are recorded at fair value. Although we have established investment guidelines relative to diversification and maturity with the objective of maintaining safety of principal and liquidity, credit rating agencies may reduce the credit rating of our individual holdings which could adversely affect their value. Lower credit quality and other market events, such as increases in interest rates, and further deterioration in the credit markets may have an adverse effect on the fair value of our investment holdings and cash position. Our ability to enter into and maintain third-party relationships is important to our successful development and commercialization of BYDUREON, BYETTA, SYMLIN and our other drug candidates and to our potential profitability. We have entered into an agreement with a contract sales force to expand the reach of our sales organization for marketing BYDUREON, BYETTA and SYMLIN within the United States. If we are successful in our efforts to secure one or more collaboration partners to develop and commercialize our exenatide products outside the United States, we will be substantially dependent on these partners for such activities relating to BYDUREON and BYETTA, and any other sustained-release formulations of exenatide, if approved. We believe that we will likely need to enter into marketing and distribution arrangements with third parties for, or find a corporate partner who can provide support for, the development and commercialization of SYMLIN or our other drug candidates outside the United States. We may also enter into arrangements with third parties for the commercialization of our other drug candidates within the United States. We may not be able to enter into marketing and distribution arrangements or find a corporate partner for SYMLIN or our other drug candidates as we deem necessary. If we are not able to enter into a marketing or distribution arrangement or find a corporate partner who can provide support for commercialization of our drug candidates as we deem necessary, we may not be able to successfully perform these marketing or distribution activities. Moreover, any new marketer or distributor or corporate partner for our drug candidates with whom we choose to contract may not establish adequate sales and distribution capabilities or gain market acceptance for our products, if any. We may be required to redeem our convertible senior notes upon a designated event. Holders of the 2007 Notes may require us to redeem all or any portion of their notes upon the occurrence of certain designated events which generally involve a change in control of our company. We may not have sufficient cash funds to redeem the 2007 Notes upon a designated event. If we are prohibited from redeeming the 2007 Notes, we could seek consent 25 from our lenders to redeem the 2007 Notes. If we are unable to obtain their consent, we could attempt to refinance the 2007 Notes. If we were unable to obtain a consent or refinance, we would be prohibited from redeeming the 2007 Notes. If we were unable to redeem the 2007 Notes upon a designated event, it would result in an event of default under the indentures governing the 2007 Notes. An event of default under the indentures could result in a further event of default under our other then-existing debt. In addition, the occurrence of a designated event may be an event of default under our other debt. If our research and development programs fail to result in additional drug candidates, the growth of our business could be impaired. Certain of our research and development programs for drug candidates are at an early stage and will require significant research, development, preclinical and clinical testing, manufacturing scale-up activities, regulatory approval and/or commitments of resources before commercialization. We cannot predict whether our research will lead to the discovery of any additional drug candidates that could generate additional revenues for us. Our future success depends on our chief executive officer, and other key executives and our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We are highly dependent on our chief executive officer, and the other principal members of our executive and scientific teams. The unexpected loss of the services of any of these persons might impede the achievement of our research, development and commercialization objectives. Recruiting and retaining qualified sales, marketing, regulatory, manufacturing, scientific and other personnel and consultants will also be critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain these personnel and consultants on acceptable terms given the competition between numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. We do not maintain “key person” insurance on any of our employees. We may be unable to adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, employees, consultants, manufacturers, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Our research and development activities and planned manufacturing activities involve the use of hazardous materials, which subject us to regulation, related costs and delays and potential liabilities. Our research and development and our planned manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. Although we believe that our research and development safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. In addition, as part of the development of our planned manufacturing activities, we will need to develop additional safety procedures for the handling and disposing of hazardous materials. If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. We are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. Additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. We may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate any of these laws or regulations. We are exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate internal control over financial reporting. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Among other things, we must perform systems and processes evaluation and testing. We must also conduct an assessment of our internal control to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In connection with our Section 404 compliance efforts, we have incurred or expended, and expect to continue to incur or expend, substantial accounting and other expenses and significant management time and resources. We have implemented certain remediation activities resulting from our ongoing assessment of internal control over financial reporting. Our future assessment, or the future assessments by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal material weaknesses in our internal control. If material weaknesses are identified in the future we would be required to conclude that our internal 26 control over financial reporting is ineffective and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the NASDAQ Stock Market or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have implemented anti-takeover provisions that could discourage or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and as a result our management may become entrenched and hard to replace. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions include: • allowing our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors; • allowing our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 5.5 million shares of preferred stock with terms set by the board of directors; • limiting the ability of holders of our outstanding common stock to call a special meeting of our stockholders; and • preventing stockholders from taking actions by written consent and requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders. Each of these provisions, as well as selected provisions of Delaware law, could discourage potential takeover attempts, could adversely affect the trading price of our securities and could cause our management to become entrenched and hard to replace. In addition to provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law, an acquisition of our company could be made more difficult by our employee benefits plans and our employee change in control severance plan, under which, in connection with a change in control and termination of employment, stock options and other equity grants held by our employees may become vested and our officers may receive severance benefits. We also have implemented a stockholder rights plan, also called a poison pill, which could make it uneconomical for a third party to acquire us on a hostile basis. Our executive officers, directors and major stockholders control approximately 39% of our common stock. As of December 31, 2011, executive officers, directors and holders of approximately 5% or more of our outstanding common stock, in the aggregate, owned or controlled approximately 39% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders are able to influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may also delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our company and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible to complete without the support of these stockholders. Substantial future sales of our common stock by us or our existing stockholders or the conversion of our convertible senior notes to common stock could cause the trading price of our common stock to fall. Sales by us or our existing stockholders of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception that additional sales could occur could cause the trading price of our common stock to drop. Likewise, the issuance of shares of common stock upon conversion of our convertible notes or redemption of our convertible notes upon a designated event, or upon additional convertible debt or equity financings or other share issuances by us, including shares issued in connection with potential future strategic alliances, could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our convertible notes are currently convertible into a total of up to 9.4 million shares. In addition, the existence of these notes may encourage short selling of our common stock by market participants. Significant volatility in the market price for our common stock could expose us to litigation risk. The market prices for securities of biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including our common stock, have historically been highly volatile, and the market from time to time has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the quarterly operating performance of these biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Since January 1, 2010, the high and low sales price of our common stock varied significantly, as shown in the following table: High Low Year ending December 31, 2012 First Quarter (through February 16, 2012) $ 18.35 $ 10.68 Year ending December 31, 2011 Fourth Quarter $ 12.23 $ 8.03 Third Quarter $ 14.60 $ 9.12 Second Quarter $ 14.28 $ 11.00 First Quarter $ 16.65 $ 10.25 Year ending December 31, 2010 Fourth Quarter $ 21.95 $ 9.51 Third Quarter $ 22.09 $ 17.81 Second Quarter $ 24.21 $ 14.85 First Quarter $ 23.93 $ 14.13 27 Given the uncertainty of our future funding, whether BYDUREON, BYETTA and SYMLIN will meet our expectations, and the regulatory approval of our other drug candidates, we may continue to experience volatility in our stock price for the foreseeable future. In addition, the following factors may significantly affect the market price of our common stock: • our financial results and/or fluctuations in our financial results; • our ability to satisfy our significant financial obligations to Lilly; • safety issues with BYDUREON, BYETTA, SYMLIN or our product candidates; • any requirement to restate financial results due to changing interpretation of the application of accounting principles that would have a significant effect on Amylin’s reported results of operations and financial condition; • progress or set-backs in our development programs, including clinical study results; • determinations by regulatory authorities with respect to our drug candidates; • developments in our relationships with current or future collaborative partners, including any partner for the development and commercialization of exenatide outside the United States; • our ability to successfully execute our commercialization strategies; • developments in our relationships with third-party manufacturers of our products and other parties who provide services to us; • technological innovations or new commercial therapeutic products by us or our competitors; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights; and • governmental policy or regulation, including with respect to pricing and reimbursement. Broad market and industry factors also may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Periods of volatility in the market price of our common stock expose us to securities class-action litigation, and we may be the target of such litigation as a result of market price volatility in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 