Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are confronted by serious liquidity concerns. As of the date hereof, we have very limited financial resources. Our operations to date have consumed substantial amounts of cash and will continue to require substantial amounts of cash in the future. In order to remain competitive, we must continue to make significant investments including further investments in research and development, equipment, and expansion of our facilities and production activities. Our $10,000,000 of Senior Secured Convertible Notes, issued in November 2004, are scheduled to mature on November 30, 2007. The Senior Secured Convertible Notes are convertible, at the option of their holders, into our common shares at the conversion price of $9.72 per share. The last sale price of our common shares on the NASDAQ Capital Market on March 14, 2007, was $0.66 per share and we do not expect the Noteholders to exercise their conversion rights. As a result, we will be required to repay to the Noteholders the entire $10,000,000 principal amount of the notes on that maturity date. 8 Taking into account our current financial condition, we will require significant additional financing to satisfy our increasing working capital requirements in 2007 and thereafter. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm, Odenberg, Ullakko, Muranishi & Co. LLP, dated March 15, 2007 included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K raises substantial doubt with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern. In the past, we have maintained our financial condition and liquidity primarily through private sales of our common shares (both registered and unregistered), convertible note financing, and the payment of exercise prices on our warrants and options. We have no assurance that outstanding stock options and warrants will be exercised in the future to any significant extent. Reliance on private equity purchase agreements and public offerings and exercises of derivative securities to finance our current and future operations entails the additional risks of our inability to sell our common shares or other securities and an insufficient number of derivative securities being exercised owing to the prevailing market prices of our underlying common shares. Additionally, any additional sales of our common stock may have a dilutive effect on the value of our outstanding shares. In the event that we are unable to obtain further financing on satisfactory terms, or at all, or if we are unable to generate sales sufficient to offset our costs, or if our costs of development and operations are greater than we anticipate, we may be unable to increase the size of our business at the rate desired or may be required to delay, reduce, or cease certain or all of our operations, any of which could materially harm our business and financial results. Certain of the holders of the Senior Secured Convertible Notes issued by us in November 2004 have made claims of default. Holders of $9,000,000 principal amount of our Senior Secured Convertible Notes, issued in November 2004, have alleged that we have defaulted in the payment of the installment of interest due November 30, 2005. One of these holders has also alleged that we have defaulted in our failure to maintain the effectiveness of the registration statement relating to the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Senior Secured Convertible Notes and that we have defaulted under the terms of the Senior Secured Convertible Notes by entering into certain types of debt financing transactions. These holders have demanded the immediate redemption of the principal amount of their Senior Secured Convertible Notes plus a redemption premium and other amounts. We do not believe that we have defaulted in the payment of interest on the Senior Secured Convertible Notes. We also believe that the registration statement has remained effective, that we have not entered into any debt financing transactions that would constitute a breach or failure in any material respect, and that we are otherwise in compliance with the relevant provisions of the Senior Secured Convertible Notes. At this date, we cannot predict what actions, if any, will be undertaken by any of the holders of the Senior Secured Convertible Notes, but we will contest any adverse actions as we believe that these allegations lack merit and would not entitle the holders of the Senior Secured Convertible Notes either to call such notes or to other remedies that they are seeking. We have experienced significant manufacturing difficulties during the past year that have resulted in our manufacturing and shipping LCoS Sets in only limited commercial quantities. If we encounter further difficulties in manufacturing our products in larger quantities we may have difficulty meeting customer demands and our operating results could be significantly harmed by such difficulties. We have experienced difficulties in manufacturing LCoS Sets during the past year. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Status of Business with LG Electronics, Inc.” Although we believe that we have developed solutions to the past problems that allow us to achieve higher production and shipment volumes, because the manufacture of our LCoS Sets involves highly complex processes, technical problems may continue to arise as we manufacture our LCoS Sets and we cannot assure satisfactory manufacturing yields on a continuing basis or that we will be able to adequately ramp up volume production of our LCoS Sets. Current and anticipated future purchase orders, which we cannot assure, will require us to produce greater quantities of LCoS Sets than we have produced in the past. Unanticipated future problems in manufacturing our LCoS Sets could cause additional production delays that might lead our current and prospective customers to seek other sources, which would negatively affect our operating results. Although we believe that we will be able to mass produce our LCoS Sets, other companies, including some with substantially greater resources than us, have found great difficulty manufacturing LCoS products. We do not have reliable information about why other companies have failed to be able to manufacture similar liquid crystal microdisplays and can therefore make no assurances that we will not encounter similar problems. 9 We currently obtain silicon backplanes, a vital component in our microdisplays, from a company in Taiwan, which is subject to potential instability because of Taiwan’s troubled relations with China. Unless we obtain an alternative source, any disruption or termination of our silicon backplane manufacturing source’s operation in Taiwan could significantly harm our operations. Early in the second quarter of 2006, the silicon wafers that we received from our supplier contained flaws that have materially harmed our manufacturing yields. See Item 1 “Business - Manufacturing and Supply.” The design and manufacture of LCoS Sets are highly complex processes that are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, variations in temperature and humidity, impurities in the materials used, and the performance of personnel and equipment. We have built and equipped a manufacturing plant in South Korea where we currently manufacture our LCoS Sets in limited quantities. We believe that these arrangements provide us with strong quality controls and effectively protect our proprietary technology in our products, but the risks discussed above associated with the highly complex processes of manufacturing these liquid crystal microdisplays remain applicable. Although we have commenced producing LCoS Sets in our manufacturing facility in South Korea, which serves as our principal facility for manufacturing our LCoS imagers, we may encounter difficulties in conducting our manufacturing operations and difficulties in maintaining our quality controls over the manufacturing and production processes in a foreign country, any of which would be likely to cause significant harm to our business. Our manufacturing operations were completely relocated from California to South Korea and the relocation of our manufacturing operations in South Korea may cause us to encounter one or more potential problems in our operations that could harm our business because of cultural or language differences, problems may arise in the training of, or communications with, our employees or the general operation of our manufacturing facility. These cultural or language differences may also create misunderstandings or the creation of inefficiencies in our operations. Furthermore, the geographic separation between our corporate offices in the United States and our principal manufacturing operation in South Korea could result in managerial or supervisory problems, which could lead to decreased quality controls and consequently materially harm our business. We have been largely dependent on one customer, LG Electronics Inc., for our future revenues, and failure to expand our customer base or receive additional orders from our existing customer base will make us vulnerable to substantial loss of potential revenues. In 2005 and 2006, almost all of our revenue has been derived from LG Electronics, Inc. (LGE). In March 2007, we were verbally informed by LGE of their intent to discontinue the production of rear projection televisions (both LCoS and DLP). We do not expect significant further sales to LGE. If we cannot diversify our customer base and derive increased revenues through additional purchase orders and product deliveries from customers other than LGE, we will be vulnerable to a substantial decline in anticipated revenues. Any such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition and the value of our common shares could decline substantially. We are the subject of an investigation by the staff of the SEC regarding the circumstances surrounding our filing of certain consents of BDO Seidman, LLP without requisite authorization and transactions in our securities by our former Chief Executive Officer. We have been advised by the staff of the SEC that it is conducting an investigation into the circumstances surrounding our filing of certain consents of BDO Seidman LLP, our former independent accountant, without requisite authorization. The consents would have allowed us to incorporate by reference the reports of BDO Seidman LLP on our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2003 into two of our registration statements on Form S-3 (File Nos. 333-122391 and 333-122392) and each of the prospectuses constituting a part of such registration statements. Our current independent registered accounting firm, Odenberg, Ullakko, Muranishi & Co. LLP (OUM), has since provided us with a new report with respect to each of the three years ended December 31, 2004 and we were not requested to amend or restate the financial statements contained in our annual reports on Form 10-K for any of the three fiscal years ended December 31, 2004 in connection with the issuance of OUM’s new report. We have also received notice that the SEC is investigating transactions in our securities by Mr. Robert Olins, our former Chief Executive Officer, Secretary, Treasurer and a Director. We have been cooperating and intend to continue to cooperate with the SEC in connection with these matters. In addition, the audit committee of our Board of Directors has concluded a review and investigation of these matters. As of this date, we cannot determine whether we or our management will be adversely affected by these investigations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Certain Developments” for further information concerning the circumstances underlying the SEC investigation and the audit committee investigation and report with respect to these matters. We may be subject to lawsuits relating to our use of a registration statement that did not contain an authorized consent of BDO Seidman LLP. As part of amendment numbers 5 and 6 to a registration statement (File No. 333-122391) registering shares for resale by certain selling shareholders and as part of amendment numbers 3 and 4 to a “shelf” registration statement (File No. 333-122392), we filed a consent of BDO Seidman LLP to incorporate by reference their report on our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2002 and 2003. Although we received the requisite authorized consents from BDO Seidman LLP to the incorporation by reference of their report on the consolidated financial statements into these registration statements when initially filed and subsequent amendments thereto (and BDO Seidman LLP has not withdrawn these consents), we did not receive the requisite authorization from BDO Seidman LLP to file its consent as an exhibit to the penultimate and final amendments to the registration statement before it was declared effective. These amendments were filed with the SEC on July 27, 2005. Subsequently, our current independent registered public accountants, OUM, re-audited our consolidated financial statements for fiscal years 2003 and 2002. OUM has given its consent to incorporate by reference into the registration statement its report related to the 2002 and 2003 financial statements. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Certain Developments.” 10 Following the filing in July 2005 of amendments containing the unauthorized consents referred to above, the staff of the SEC declared both of the registration statements effective and shares of our common stock were sold. In August 2005, we filed post-effective amendment number 1 to both of these registration statements (those post-effective amendments were subsequently withdrawn and replaced by additional post-effective amendments), which disclosed the filing of the unauthorized consents. Because both registration statements were used to sell common shares after the Staff of the SEC declared the registration statements effective, it is conceivable that there may be litigation against us or our officers or directors under Section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). Although we do not believe that the filing of an invalid consent constitutes a materially misleading statement or an omission to disclose a material fact within the meaning of Section 11 of the Securities Act, a contrary determination could result in a liability for us. At present, we are unable to ascertain the exact amount of damages, if any, to which we could potentially be subject under a Section 11 claim instituted by any persons who directly purchased shares pursuant to those registration statements. Furthermore, at this date, we cannot ascertain the amount of damages, if any, for which we could be liable for claims instituted by any subsequent purchasers who could trace the shares purchased by them to those registration statements. In August 2005, we sold 500,000 common shares to three institutional purchasers for $5.40 per share pursuant to the “shelf” registration statement referenced herein. Each of those investors has since represented to us in writing, in connection with a separate transaction, that they have disposed of all of those shares. One of those institutional investors has represented to us that it sold those shares at a sale price at or higher than its purchase price from us. We believe, based upon discussions with the other two investors, that they sold their shares at a sale price of not lower than $4.25 per share. Therefore, we believe that the maximum amount of potential damages pursuant to Section 11 claims from direct purchasers, which we would fully contest, would be $391,000, or the difference between the two investors’ purchase price and lowest believed resale price, multiplied by the 340,000 shares that they purchased and then resold. In addition to any damage claims, which may be material to our financial condition, any lawsuit alleging securities law violations could require us to expend significant financial and managerial resources. Any such lawsuit could also result in further volatility in the market price of our common shares. Nothing set forth in the foregoing statement constitutes an express or implied admission by us of any liability under Section 11 of the Securities Act or otherwise. We may be subject to lawsuits relating to certain sales of our securities by our former Chief Executive Officer. Our Audit Committee determined that Robert A. Olins, our former Chief Executive Officer, Secretary, Treasurer and a Director failed to report the sale of an aggregate of 70,556 of our common shares in August 2005 and February 2006 at sales prices ranging from $5.30 to $3.00. Pursuant to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), Mr. Olins has filed delinquent reports and disgorged $22,273 in “short-swing profits” that he realized from the sales. We have been advised by the SEC that they are investigating the transactions in our securities by Mr. Olins and an entity which he controls, and have received and responded to a request from the SEC requesting documentation relating to all transactions by Mr. Olins and the entity which he controls. We have no knowledge of any other transactions by Mr. Olins, or this entity, that would be a violation of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act. If the SEC determines that these or other transactions by Mr. Olins were a violation of the Securities Act, it is conceivable that such transactions could be imputed to us and the SEC could seek to impose remedies against us, or private individuals could file litigation against us for damages. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Certain Developments”. We are unable to estimate the probability of liability or the amount of any penalties or damage claims that might arise, which may be material to our financial condition. We believe that Mr. Olins will disgorge any “short swing profits” if it is determined that he or the entity he controls engaged in transactions that violated Section 16 of the Exchange Act. Any action by the SEC or lawsuit alleging securities law violations could require us to expend significant financial and managerial resources and could also result in further volatility in the market price of our common shares. Nothing set forth in the foregoing statement constitutes an express or implied admission by us of any liability under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or otherwise. 11 The obligations arising from our Senior Secured Convertible Notes restrict our future financing alternatives and may result in financial difficulties for us in the future. The Senior Secured Convertible Notes issued in November 2004 bear a 10% rate of interest per annum and are not prepayable, in whole or in part, prior to their maturity on November 30, 2007. Therefore, we do not have the ability to refinance the 2004 Senior Secured Convertible Notes with debt obligations bearing more favorable terms to us or out of the proceeds of an equity financing until their maturity date. We do have the right to force the conversion of the Senior Secured Convertible Notes into our common shares in the event that our common shares trade at or above $14.58 (150% of the $9.72 conversion price of the Senior Secured Convertible Notes) for twenty consecutive trading days. The last sale price of our common shares on March 14, 2007, was $0.66 per share and it is not likely that we will be able to exercise our conversion right prior to the maturity of the Senior Secured Convertible Notes. The Senior Secured Convertible Notes are secured by virtually all of our assets, other than those located in South Korea, and it may therefore be difficult for us to obtain future debt financing. However, the terms of the Senior Secured Convertible Notes allow us to subordinate the liens on accounts receivable, certain contract rights and inventory (the “Subject Property”) securing the Senior Secured Convertible Notes, to liens on the Subject Property securing certain other debt permitted, subject to certain conditions, by the Senior Secured Convertible Notes. In addition, the issuance of any additional debt securities, except certain types of bank debt permitted under the Senior Secured Convertible Notes, will require the consent of the holders of a majority in interest of our Senior Secured Convertible Notes, to the extent that such notes remain issued and outstanding at the time of issuance of any additional debt securities. The prohibition against incurring debt may negatively affect our ability to engage in capital expenditures and to maintain and expand our manufacturing operations. If we default in meeting our obligations under the Senior Secured Convertible Notes, the indebtedness which they evidence may become immediately due and payable, and the holders of the Senior Secured Convertible Notes may be entitled to foreclose on any of our assets securing the notes. As noted earlier, certain of the holders of our Senior Secured Convertible Notes have alleged that we have defaulted in meeting our obligations under the Senior Secured Convertible Notes and have demanded the immediate repayment of principal and liquidated damages. In the event these holders pursue their claims, and a court determines that we have defaulted in our obligations, we will have to seek financing from third parties to satisfy the holders’ claims. The Senior Secured Convertible Notes are convertible into our common shares and the issuance of such shares (including any shares issued in payment of interest on such notes) may have a dilutive effect on the value of our outstanding common shares. We have a history of losses and expect to incur losses in the future and therefore cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability. We have incurred operating losses to date and have experienced cash shortages. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, we incurred net losses of approximately $19 million and $14 million, respectively. In addition, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $101 million as of December 31, 2006. We expect additional losses as we continue spending for commercial scale production and other business activities as well as further research and development of our products. As a result, we will need to generate substantial sales to support our costs of doing business before we can begin to recoup our operating losses and accumulated deficit and achieve profitability. We may be subject to liability if we default on our obligations to raise additional capital as required in the purchase documents related to our private placement of common shares in August 2006. Under the terms of the Securities Purchase Agreement dated August 9, 2006, as amended on October 25, 2006 (the “August 2006 Financing”), we must raise an additional $4,200,000 before April 15, 2007 (such date being the “Additional Financing Deadline”) or commence a subscription rights offering to our stockholders to purchase our common shares having an aggregate value of at least $14,200,000 (which amount may be reduced on a dollar for dollar basis for any financing we complete before the Additional Financing Deadline). Because of our existing covenants with the holders of our Senior Secured Convertible Notes, which requires us to seek their consent before we agree to enter into additional material indebtedness, we will most likely try to raise the $4,200,000 through the sale of additional common shares. We can offer no assurance that we will successfully raise $4,200,000 nor can we offer any assurance that we will issue subscription rights to our stockholders in the future. In connection with the August 2006 Financing, we also agreed, for a period of one year following the closing of the August 2006 Financing, to refrain from, directly or indirectly, offering or selling any debt security that is, at any time during the life of the debt security and under any circumstance, convertible into or exchangeable for our common shares, unless we receive prior written consent from a majority of the purchasers of the August 2006 Financing. In the event that we default upon the foregoing obligations, the purchasers of securities in our August 2006 Financing are entitled to contractual damages and may also request that we specifically perform our obligations under the purchase agreement giving rise to our obligations. At present, we are unable to quantify the amount of contractual damages to which the purchasers would be entitled, and we are unable to estimate the likelihood that a court would grant any purchaser’s application that we specifically perform our obligations. 12 We are subject to lengthy development periods and product acceptance cycles, which may significantly harm our business. Our business model requires us to develop microdisplays that perform better than existing technologies, manufacture our LCoS Sets in bulk, and sell the resulting LCoS Sets to OEMs who will then incorporate them into their products. OEMs make the determination during their product development programs whether to incorporate our LCoS Sets and/or display units in their products. This requires us to invest significant amounts of time and capital in designing our LCoS Sets before we can be assured that we will generate any significant sales to our customers or even recover our investment. If we fail to recover our investment in the LCoS Sets, it could seriously harm our financial condition. In addition, the acceptance of new technologies developed by our competitors could limit the time period that our products may be demanded by our customers. We incur substantial operational and research and development costs in connection with products and technologies that may not be successful. We currently have 11 full-time engineering personnel based in California working on microdisplays. We currently have eight full-time engineering and 73 full-time manufacturing personnel based in South Korea. This staffing creates significant operational and research and development costs that may not be recouped. Even if our current LCoS Sets become accepted and/or successful, we must continue to employ, and may increase in number, our engineering and manufacturing personnel to develop future generations of our microdisplays because of the rapid technological changes in our industry. As a result, we expect to continue incurring significant operational and research and development costs. Geopolitical conditions or potential military conflicts between the United States or South Korea and North Korea may negatively impact our business. We commenced producing products in our principal manufacturing operations in South Korea during the second quarter of 2005, and our largest customer, LGE, resides in South Korea. South Korea and North Korea are technically at war with each other, despite the mutually agreed upon existence of the Demilitarized Zone and the relative absence of physical conflict for several decades. Any escalation in the existing conflict between these countries or any commencement, or perceived commencement, of a military conflict between the United States or South Korea and North Korea, may limit our ability to effectively operate our manufacturing facility in South Korea and may also substantially limit our ability to sell products into South Korea because of the negative economic, physical or other destructive impact that such a conflict could have on our most important customer. Any such disruptions to our manufacturing operations and/or ability to consummate sales to a substantial customer could adversely affect the development of our business and our financial condition. The recent escalation in tension between the United States and North Korea, as a result of North Korea’s attempts to test certain of their missiles and nuclear devices, has not impacted our operations in South Korea, but we can provide no assurances that continued tension will not negatively affect our operations. If the high definition projection television market does not continue to develop and if other potential markets for our products do not materialize, then our business will likely be significantly harmed. High definition television programming has only recently become available to consumers, and widespread market acceptance, although anticipated, is uncertain at this time. The market demand for high definition televisions is considered contingent upon widespread acceptance of high definition television programming. Current trends in cable and satellite programming as well as availability of Blu-ray Disc™ and HD-DVD high definition pre-recorded media support the transition to high definition television. Our current sales and marketing efforts are focused on OEMs of high definition televisions and OEMs of light engines designed for incorporation into high definition projection televisions. Therefore, if the market for high definition televisions continues to grow and develop, but that the projection TV format (as opposed to flat panel display formats such as LCD TV and Plasma TV) does not maintain a large market share, then we will have difficulty selling our products for this application, which will have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Various potential target markets for our products, including projectors, monitors, and portable microdisplays, are uncertain and may be slow to develop. In addition, companies in those markets could utilize competing technologies. For us to succeed in selling our products in these potential markets we must offer end-product manufacturers higher quality and less expensive microdisplay products than our competitors, and the manufacturers themselves will also have to develop commercially successful products using our products. In the event that we attempt to market and sell our products in these potential target markets, and we are not able to succeed in selling our products into these potential markets, then our results of operations and overall business may be negatively affected. 13 If our products do not become widely accepted by our customers or the end-users, our business could be significantly harmed. Our LCoS Sets may not be accepted by a widespread market. Even if we successfully obtain customer orders, our customers may determine not to introduce or may terminate products utilizing the technology for a variety of reasons, including the following: · superior technologies developed by our competitors; · price considerations; and · lack of anticipated or actual market demand for the products. We cannot assure you that we will obtain additional purchase orders from our current or prospective customers, or, if we do, that such orders will generate significant revenues. Even though in the past we have received purchase orders for our LCoS Sets and/or display units from LGE and from certain Chinese and Taiwanese OEMs, and may receive additional purchase orders from prospective customers, sales to manufacturers in the electronics industry are subject to severe competitive pressures, rapid technological change and product obsolescence. In addition, purchase orders received from our customers other than LGE are for limited quantities. Customers may, at any time, cancel purchase orders or commitments or reduce or delay orders, thereby increasing our inventory and overhead risks. Therefore, despite the purchase orders received from current customers and other purchase orders that we may receive from prospective customers, we cannot assure you that these orders will result in significant revenues to us. If our customers’ products are not successful, our business would be materially harmed. We do not currently sell any products to end-users. Instead, we design and manufacture various product solutions that our customers may incorporate into their products. As a result, our success depends almost entirely upon the widespread market acceptance of our customers’ products. Any significant absence of, or slowdown in the demand for our customers’ products would materially harm our business. Our dependence on the success of the products of our customers exposes us to a variety of risks, including our need to: · maintain customer satisfaction with our design and manufacturing services; · match our design and manufacturing capacity with customer demand and maintain satisfactory delivery schedules; · anticipate customer order patterns, changes in order mix, and the level and timing of orders that we can meet; and · adjust to the cyclical nature of the industries and markets we serve. Our failure to address these risks may cause us to lose sales or our sales to decline. The high definition television industry is highly competitive, which may result in lost sales or lower gross margins. We serve the highly competitive high definition television industry that is characterized by price erosion, rapid technological change and competition from major domestic and international companies. This intense competition could result in downward pricing pressures, lower sales, reduced margins and lower market share. Companies competing in the LCoS microdisplay market include Sony Corporation and Victor Company of Japan, Limited (“JVC”). A major competitor of ours in the reflective microdisplay market is Texas Instruments, which, rather than using liquid crystals in the display, is producing a micro-mechanical structure of moving mirrors on a silicon backplane, a technology known as digital light processing, or DLP. Texas Instruments has had significant success selling its DLP products to its customers in the business front projector market and the rear projection high definition television market. Some of our competitors, including Texas Instruments, Sony, and JVC, have greater market recognition, larger customer bases, and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we possess. As a result, they may be able to introduce new products and respond to customer requirements more quickly and effectively than we can. Rapid and significant technological advances have characterized the microdisplay market. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effect any significant technological advances or that we will have sufficient funds to invest in new technologies or products or processes. Although we believe that our displays have specifications and capabilities, which equal or exceed that of commercially available liquid crystal displays (“LCD”), cathode ray tube (“CRT”) and DLP based display products, the manufacturers of these products may develop further improvements of their existing technology that would eliminate or diminish our anticipated advantage. The acceptance of our LCoS Sets and/or display units will be dependent upon the pricing, quality, reliability and useful life of these products compared to competing technologies, as to which there can be no assurance. 14 Our competitive position also may suffer if one or more of our customers decide to design and manufacture their own microdisplay products, to contract with our competitors, or to use alternative technologies. In addition, customers in the television manufacturing industry typically develop a second source. Second source suppliers may win an increasing share of our customers’ product demands. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, both within and outside our control. These factors include: · our success in designing and manufacturing new display technologies; · our ability to address the needs of customers; · the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing, and diversity of our display products; · foreign currency fluctuations, which may cause a foreign competitor’s products to be priced significantly lower than our displays; · the quality of our customer services; · the efficiency of our production sources; and · the rate at which customers incorporate our displays into their own products. Fluctuations in the exchange rate of the United States dollar and foreign currencies could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and profitability. A portion of our costs is denominated in foreign currencies, including the Korean Won and the Euro. As a result, changes in the exchange rates of these currencies or any other applicable currencies to the U.S. Dollar will affect our costs of goods sold and operating margins, and could result in exchange losses. We cannot fully predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our profitability. From time to time, we may engage in exchange rate hedging activities in an effort to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, although we have not engaged in any such hedging activities to date. We cannot offer assurance that any hedging technique we may implement will be effective. If it is not effective, we may experience reduced operating margins. Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations. Our results of operations have varied significantly from quarter-to-quarter and are likely to vary significantly in the future, making it difficult to predict our future operating results. Accordingly, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indicator of our future performance. Some of the factors that cause our operating results to fluctuate include: · introductions of displays and market acceptance of new generations of displays; · timing of expenditures in anticipation of future orders; · changes in our cost structure; · availability of labor and components; · pricing and availability of competitive products and services; · the timing of orders; · the volume of orders relative to the capacity we can contract to produce; · evolution in the life cycles of customers’ products; and · changes or anticipated changes in economic conditions. The market price of our common stock is highly volatile. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile, reflecting among other things reported losses, receipts of additional financing and investors' perceptions about our business prospects. Some research has shown that similar volatility in other companies correlates with initiation of class action securities lawsuits although to date we have not been a defendant in any such lawsuit. The trading price of our common shares in the future could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, including: · quarterly variations in our operating results; · actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new product developments by us or our competitors; · public announcements regarding our business developments; · changes in analysts' estimates of our financial performance; · sales of large numbers of shares of our common stock by our shareholders; · general conditions in the electronics industry; and · worldwide economic and financial conditions. 15 In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for many high-technology companies and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations and other factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Future offerings of our common stock, or securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock, could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly, even if our business operations are performing well. We could issue up to 108,134,848 additional shares of common stock under our current “Shelf” Registration Statement (Registration Number 333-137100) (subject to the number of authorized shares available), based on the price of our common stock on March 14, 2007 or $0.66 per share. This is more than double of the total number of shares of our common stock that were issued and outstanding as of March 14, 2007. Sales of these shares into the public market, or the perception that future sales of these shares could occur, might adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock in the near future. Furthermore, market perceptions regarding the likelihood that we will be required to issue and sell additional shares of our common stock in the near future to fund our ongoing operations, thereby diluting the ownership interests of current owners of our common stock, could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our common stock may not be liquid. Shares of our common stock are currently traded on The NASDAQ Capital Market. Our stockholders may find that it is more difficult to sell shares of our common stock than shares that are listed on The NASDAQ Global Market or The New York Stock Exchange. The trading volume of our common stock has historically been adversely affected by their limited marketability, but such volume has increased significantly in recent periods. Nevertheless, any substantial sales of our common stock may result in a material reduction in their market price, reflecting the volatility of the trading market for shares of our common stock. If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, our ability to compete could be harmed. Our development and operations depend substantially on the efforts and abilities of our senior management and qualified technical personnel. Our products require sophisticated production, research and development and technical support. The competition for qualified management and technical personnel is intense. The loss of services of one or more of our key employees or the inability to add key personnel could have a material adverse affect on us particularly since currently we do not have any insurance policies in place to cover that contingency. Our success will depend upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, marketing, manufacturing, financial and other key management personnel. We face intense competition for the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding of our products and technology. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain such personnel or not incur significant costs in order to do so. Our future success depends on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our registered intellectual property. We believe that our success depends in part on protecting our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality and assignment of inventions agreements from our employees, consultants, advisors and other contractual provisions, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property from use by third parties, our ability to compete in the industry will be harmed, however, policing unauthorized use of our products and technology is difficult. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, we face the following risks: · pending patent applications may not be issued; · patents issued to us may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented; · unauthorized parties may obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights; · others may independently develop similar technology or design around any patents issued to us; · breach of confidentiality agreements; · intellectual property laws may not protect our intellectual property; and · effective protection of intellectual property rights may be limited or unavailable in some foreign countries, such as China, in which we may operate. Specifically, although we consider the following unlikely because of the complex technological structure of our products, one or more of our current or prospective Chinese, Korean or Taiwanese customers, or their respective employees or other persons including our competitors, that have or gain access to our products for testing purposes, may seek to misappropriate or improperly convert to their own use our intellectual property and a lack of adequate remedies and impartiality under the Chinese, Korean, Taiwanese and other foreign legal systems may adversely impact our ability to protect our intellectual property. 16 There can be no assurance that we will have adequate remedies or the resources to pursue those remedies in the event any of the foregoing materializes. Failure to protect our intellectual property would limit our ability to produce and market our products in the future, which would materially adversely affect our revenues generated by the sale of such products. In addition, third parties could assert that our products and technology infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights. As a result, we may become subject to future patent infringement claims or litigation, the defense of which is costly, time-consuming and diverts the attention of management and other personnel. The material weaknesses identified by our management and our independent registered public accounting firm with respect to our internal controls over financial reporting may have a materially negative impact on our business. In accordance with the rules prescribed by the SEC and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we must periodically assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. During our preparation of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, our management and our independent registered public accounting firm identified several material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. As of this date, the material weaknesses identified include the fact that our Audit Committee does not have a member who is deemed a “financial expert” as defined by the rules promulgated by the SEC, although a member of our audit committee has the level of financial sophistication that the rules of the National Association of Securities Dealers require. We lack qualified financial executive management to perform independent secondary reviews over complex and non-routine accounting matters. Additionally, we did not maintain a formal policy relating to the updating of standard costs and reviewing variances with actual costs, which affects the accounting for inventory. We may need to incur significant additional expenses to achieve compliance and we may incur other costs in connection with regulatory enforcement actions, any of which could negatively impact our business. Political, economic and regulatory risks associated with international operations may limit our ability to do business abroad. A substantial number of our customers, manufacturers and suppliers are located outside of the United States, principally in the Far East. Our international operations are subject to political and economic conditions abroad, and protectionist trade legislation in either the United States or foreign countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, export or import compliance laws, or other trade policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to manufacture or sell displays in foreign markets and to purchase materials or equipment from foreign suppliers. Certain of our current purchase order agreements with customers are governed by foreign law and therefore are subject to uncertainty with regard to their enforceability. Although we have a 50 year 100% land lease payment exemption from the South Korean government for our South Korean facility, we could lose this land lease payment exemption in the event we lose our “high technology” certification. In September 2004, we entered into a fifty year term lease with the Gyeongnam provincial government for 8.3 acres of undeveloped land in Jinsa, Gyeongnam province in South Korea. We leased the land for the purpose of constructing a state-of-the-art manufacturing facility with the anticipated capacity to meet mass production-scale demand from our customers and prospective customers. We have received a 100% land lease payment exemption because the land has been designated a “free economic zone” by the South Korean national government and the South Korean government also certified us as a “high technology” company. Under our agreement with the Gyeongnam provincial government we could lose our land lease payment exemption in the event that we lose our “high technology” certification, which could increase the costs of operating the facility and format negatively impact our business. Additionally if we were to lose the lease, we might be required to donate the building to the South Korean government. We have federal net operating losses which may expire before we can utilize them. At December 31, 2006, the Company had a federal net operating loss carryforward of approximately $67.1 million. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code imposes an annual limitation on the utilization of net operating loss carryforward following a “change of ownership.” The amount of the limitation is based on a statutory rate of return and the value of the corporation at the time of the change of ownership. Private placements and other sales of equity securities by the Company can cause a change of ownership either individually or in the aggregate. If a change of ownership occurs and an annual limitation is imposed, a portion of these carryforwards may expire before the Company is able to utilize them. We do not pay cash dividends. We have never paid any cash dividends on our common shares and do not anticipate that we will pay cash dividends in the near future. Moreover, under the terms of our November 2004 Financing, we are prohibited from paying cash dividends while the Senior Secured Convertible Notes issued in the November 2004 Financing remain outstanding. Instead, we intend to apply any future earnings, as to which there can be no assurances, to the satisfaction of our obligations, and development and expansion of our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 