Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These are not the only risks and uncertainties facing VIVUS. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Risks Relating to our Product Development Efforts We face significant risks in our product development efforts. The process of developing new drugs and/or therapeutic products is inherently complex, time-consuming, expensive and uncertain. We must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether our development programs will result in products that will receive regulatory approval and achieve market acceptance. Investigational product candidates that appear to be promising at all stages of development may not reach the market for a number of reasons. Investigational product candidates may be found ineffective or may cause harmful side effects during clinical trials, may take longer to progress through clinical trials than had been anticipated, may not be able to achieve the pre-defined clinical endpoints due to statistical anomalies even though clinical benefit may have been achieved, may fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals, may prove impracticable to manufacture in commercial quantities at reasonable cost and with acceptable quality, or may fail to achieve market acceptance. We are largely dependent on the success of our two investigational product candidates: Qnexa, for treatment of obesity, and avanafil, for treatment of erectile dysfunction, and cannot be certain that either product candidate will receive timely regulatory approval, if at all, or be successfully commercialized. We currently have only a limited number of product candidates in clinical development, and our business currently depends on their successful development and commercialization. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, sale, marketing and distribution of drug products are subject to extensive regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and other regulatory authorities in the United States and other countries, which regulations differ from country to country. We are not permitted to market our product candidates in the United States until we receive approval of a new drug application, or NDA, from the FDA, or in any foreign countries until we receive the requisite approval from the regulatory authorities of such countries. 31 Table of Contents Regulatory approval of an NDA or NDA supplement is not guaranteed. Despite the time and expense exerted, failure can occur at any stage, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon clinical trials or to repeat or perform additional pre-clinical studies and clinical trials. The number of pre-clinical studies and clinical trials that will be required for FDA approval varies depending on the product candidate, the disease or condition that the product candidate is designed to target and the regulations applicable to any particular product candidate. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval of a product candidate for many reasons, including: •the FDA may not deem a product candidate safe and effective; •the FDA may not find the data from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials sufficient to support approval; •the FDA may require additional pre-clinical or clinical studies; •the FDA may not accept our stability data for commercial product; •the FDA may not approve of our third-party manufacturers' processes and facilities; •Although the FDA accepted our electronic NDA submission for Qnexa, it may not accept future NDA submissions from us due to, among other reasons, the formatting of the submission; or •the FDA may change its approval policies, adopt new regulations or provide new guidance with significant requirements not currently included or considered by us when seeking NDA approval. We recently submitted our NDA for Qnexa for the treatment of obesity to the FDA for approval. Our next most advanced investigation product candidate, avanafil, has not completed all of the large, pivotal Phase 3 clinical trials for efficacy and safety that are required for FDA approval. Notwithstanding our belief that the data collected from our three Phase 3 trials of Qnexa is promising, and even if we believe that data collected from our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials of our other product candidates are promising and that our information and procedures regarding chemistry, manufacturing and controls are sufficient, our data may not be sufficient to support approval by the FDA or any other foreign regulatory authority. In addition, we believe that the regulatory review of NDAs for drug candidates intended for widespread use by a large proportion of the general population is becoming increasingly focused on safety. In this regard, it is likely that some of our investigational product candidates, including Qnexa and avanafil, will be subject to increased scrutiny to show adequate safety than would investigational product candidates for more acute or life-threatening diseases, such as cancer or HIV. Recently, the FDA notified healthcare professionals that the review of additional data from a post-approval study indicates an increased risk of heart attack and stroke in patients with a history of cardiovascular disease using sibutramine. Based on the serious nature of the review findings, the FDA requested, and the manufacturer agreed, to add a new contraindication to the sibutramine drug label stating that sibutramine is not to be used in patients with a history of cardiovascular disease, including history of coronary artery disease (e.g., heart attack, angina), stroke or transient ischemic attack, or TIA, heart arrhythmias, congestive heart failure, peripheral arterial disease, or uncontrolled hypertension (e.g., > 145/90 mmHg). The European Medicines Agency has completed a review of the safety and effectiveness of sibutramine. The Agency's Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use, or CHMP, has concluded that the benefits of sibutramine do not outweigh its risks, and that all marketing authorizations for medicines containing sibutramine should be suspended throughout Europe. We are unable to determine the impact on Qnexa, if any, of the recent actions in the U.S. and Europe with regards to sibutramine. If any regulatory agency were to require additional studies, including studies to address cardiovascular events, the impact on the timing of approval and if approved, commercialization of Qnexa, avanafil or any of our investigational product candidates, could be delayed. Even if approved, 32 Table of Contents drug candidates may not be approved for all indications requested and such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the drug may be marketed and may have restricted access programs. Our business and reputation may be harmed by any failure or significant delay in receiving regulatory approval for the sale of any drugs resulting from our investigational product candidates. As a result, we cannot predict when or whether regulatory approval will be obtained for any of our investigational product candidates currently under development. The results of pre-clinical studies and completed clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of future results, and our current investigational product candidates may not have favorable results in later studies or trials. Pre-clinical studies and Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials are not primarily designed to test the efficacy of an investigational product candidate in the general population, but rather to test initial safety, to study pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, to study limited efficacy in a small number of study subjects in a selected disease population, and to identify and attempt to understand the investigational product candidate's side effects at various doses and dosing schedules. Success in pre-clinical studies or completed clinical trials does not ensure that later studies or trials, including continuing pre-clinical studies and large-scale clinical trials, will be successful nor does it necessarily predict future results. Favorable results in early studies or trials may not be repeated in later studies or trials, and investigational product candidates in later stage trials may fail to show acceptable safety and efficacy despite having progressed through initial-stage trials. In addition, the placebo rate in larger studies may be higher than expected. Although we recently announced results from two pivotal Phase 3 clinical trials for safety and efficacy of our most advanced investigational product candidate, Qnexa, we continue to analyze the data collected in these trials. Consequently, it is possible that further analysis of this and other data on Qnexa may yield information or suggest conclusions not yet known that may negatively impact our ability to obtain regulatory approval for Qnexa as a treatment for obesity, market acceptance or safety profile. Our other investigational product candidates, avanafil and Luramist, have not successfully completed all of the large, pivotal Phase 3 trials for efficacy and safety that are required for approval by the FDA and other worldwide regulatory authorities. Pre-clinical data and the limited clinical results that we have obtained for these investigational product candidates may not predict results from studies in larger numbers of patients in multiple sites drawn from more diverse populations treated for longer periods of time. The smaller and shorter clinical trials also may not predict the ability of these investigational products to achieve or sustain the desired effects in the broad intended population or to do so safely. We may also decide to not conduct additional Phase 2 studies prior to the initiation of pivotal Phase 3 studies. In addition, we may elect to enter into pivotal Phase 3 studies with a new formulation, dosage, delivery system or choose to study different populations than had been studied in previous clinical trials. Qnexa is our proprietary capsule formulation investigational product candidate containing the active ingredients phentermine and topiramate. Phentermine was approved for the short-term treatment of obesity by the FDA in 1959. Topiramate is approved for seizures (1996) and migraine prevention (2004). Published studies on topiramate reported that topiramate treatment produced weight loss. By combining these compounds, Qnexa attempts to simultaneously address excessive appetite and a high threshold for satiety, the two main mechanisms believed to impact eating behavior. Although we believe Qnexa affects the two major causes of overeating, excessive hunger and the inability to feel satisfied, we may not be correct in our assessment of the impact the combination of these two ingredients may have on weight loss or their mechanism of action. Earlier studies with Qnexa were completed using a twice-a-day dose. The twice-a-day dose and timing of the administration of the active ingredients was determined by the inventor through the treatment of patients in his private practice. We used a once-a-day formulation in our completed Phase 3 studies of Qnexa. We have completed various 33 Table of Contents pharmacokinetic studies of the once-a-day formulations to characterize the pharmacokinetic profile of the once-a-day formulation of Qnexa. The FDA has also asked us to study the effects of a lower dose of Qnexa, which we did in the Phase 3 obesity trials. We may be required to demonstrate through large, long-term outcome trials that our investigational product candidates are safe and effective for use in a broad population prior to obtaining regulatory approval. There is typically a high rate of attrition from the failure of investigational product candidates proceeding through clinical trials. If any of our investigational product candidates fail to demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy in any clinical trial, we will experience potentially significant delays in, or may decide to abandon development of, that investigational product candidate. If we abandon or are delayed in our development efforts related to any of our investigational products, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to continue our operations and clinical studies at the current level or become profitable. Our reputation in the industry and in the investment community would likely be significantly damaged. It may not be possible for us to complete financings, and our stock price would likely decrease significantly. If the results of current or future pre-clinical studies, clinical testing and/or clinical trials indicate that our proposed investigational product candidates are not safe or effective for human use, our business will suffer. Unfavorable results from ongoing pre-clinical studies, clinical testing and/or clinical trials could result in delays, modifications or abandonment of ongoing or future clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in late stage clinical trials, even after promising results in mid to late-stage trials. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a clinical trial to be delayed, repeated, modified or terminated. In addition, failure to design appropriate clinical trial protocols could result in the test or control group experiencing a disproportionate number of adverse events and could cause a clinical trial to be delayed, repeated, modified or terminated. All of the investigational product candidates that we are currently developing require extensive pre-clinical and/or clinical testing before we can submit any application for regulatory approval. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our investigational product candidates, we must demonstrate with substantial evidence through pre-clinical testing and/or clinical trials that our investigational product candidates are safe and effective in humans for the indication being studied. Conducting clinical trials is a complex, lengthy, expensive and uncertain process. Completion of clinical trials and approval by the FDA may take several years or more. Our ability to complete clinical trials may be delayed, suspended or terminated by many factors, including, but not limited to: •inability to obtain or manufacture sufficient quantities of drugs for use in clinical trials; •inability of the manufactured product to meet stability requirements; •failure to receive approval by the FDA of our clinical trial protocols; •changes in clinical trial protocols or analysis plans made by us or imposed by the FDA; •poor safety or effectiveness of our investigational product candidates; •slower than expected rate of and higher than expected cost of patient recruitment; •retaining patients who have initiated a clinical trial but may be prone to withdraw due to side effects from the therapy, lack of efficacy or personal issues, or who are lost to further follow-up; •delay or failure to reach agreement on acceptable clinical trial agreement terms or clinical trial protocols with prospective sites or investigators; 34 Table of Contents •delays in identifying and reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical trial sites; •unfavorable results from ongoing clinical trials and pre-clinical studies; •uncertainty regarding proper dosing; •difficulty or inability to achieve bioequivalence between commercial formulations and clinical trial formulations; •failure of our clinical research organizations to comply with all regulatory and contractual requirements or otherwise perform their services in a timely or acceptable manner; •scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions; •termination of clinical trials by one or more clinical trial sites; •inability or unwillingness of medical investigators to follow our clinical protocols; •inability to adequately follow patients after treatment; •insufficient data to support regulatory approval; •collecting, reviewing and analyzing our clinical trial data; •unforeseen safety issues; •unforeseen issues with formulation or stability of investigational product candidates; •obtaining institutional review board, or IRB, approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; •government or regulatory delays; or •inability to raise the necessary cash to start or complete the trials. Many of these factors may also ultimately lead to denial of regulatory approval of our investigational product candidates. If we experience delays, suspensions or terminations in our clinical trials for a particular investigational product candidate, the commercial prospects for that investigational candidate will be harmed, and we may be unable to raise additional funds on favorable terms, if at all, or generate product revenues from that investigational candidate or revenues would be delayed, our reputation in the industry and in the investment community would likely be significantly damaged, and our stock price would likely decrease significantly. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. Our bioequivalence studies may fail to demonstrate acceptable comparability between formulations of investigational product candidates used in our Phase 3 clinical trials and new formulations, if any, of investigational product candidates we might choose to launch commercially, or choose to commercialize later, after launch. We may choose to develop a new formulation of any or all of our investigational product candidates that may be different from the formulation used in our Phase 3 clinical trials. If changes are made, or if a new formulation is used, we will need to demonstrate comparable bioequivalence between the formulation used in our Phase 3 clinical trials and the new formulation, should we choose to launch or later commercialize this new formulation. If we are unable to demonstrate that the formulation used in our Phase 3 clinical trials is bioequivalent to the new formulation we intend to launch or later commercialize, then we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials or repeat some or all of our Phase 3 clinical trials for our investigational product candidate, or we may need to develop an 35 Table of Contents alternative commercial formulation for the investigational product candidate that is bioequivalent. As a result, our ability to obtain approval of the investigational product candidate, if any, may be delayed. We have performed a bioequivalence study on a new formulation of Qnexa that we intend to launch, if approved, which was determined to be equivalent to the formulation used in the Phase 3 trials. Association with fen-phen could lead to increased scrutiny of our investigational product candidate, Qnexa. One of the active ingredients in Qnexa, phentermine, had previously been used in combination with fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine. Phentermine is the most commonly prescribed anti-obesity product. As phentermine is an older drug, no new efficacy trials have been conducted, with the exception of several trials on the combination of phentermine and fenfluramine in the early and mid 1990s and the EQUATE Phase 3 study that contained two phentermine arms. The combination of fenfluramine or PONDIMIN, or fen, and phentermine, or phen, was known as fen-phen. Fenfluramine received FDA approval in 1973 for the short-term treatment of obesity. Together, phentermine and fenfluramine were used by doctors to treat obesity. The FDA never approved the fen-phen combination; however, since the FDA approved fenfluramine, doctors were able to prescribe it as needed. The use of these drugs together for treatment of obesity was considered an off-label and unapproved use. In 1992, a published study cited fen-phen as a more effective method than dieting or exercise in reducing the weight of the chronically obese. Neither combination, however, was ever tested for safety. By the summer of 1997, the Mayo Clinic reported 24 cases of heart valve disease in patients that had taken the fen-phen combination. The cluster of unusual cases of heart valve disease in fen-phen users suggested a correlation between fen-phen use and heart valve disease. On July 8, 1997, the FDA issued a Public Health Advisory to report the Mayo findings. The FDA continued to receive additional reports of heart valve disease, including reports from patients who had taken only fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine. Further evaluations of patients taking fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine showed that approximately 30% had abnormal valve findings. This figure was much higher than expected for abnormal test results and suggests fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine as the likely causes of Primary Pulmonary Hypertension, or PPH, and valvular heart disease. In September 1997, the FDA requested drug manufacturers to voluntarily withdraw fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine. At the same time, the FDA recommended that patients using either fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine stop taking them. The FDA did not, however, request the withdrawal of phentermine. Although studies to date have not demonstrated that phentermine causes PPH and valvular heart disease, when used in larger populations, there can be no assurance that Qnexa will not demonstrate rare, but significant cardiovascular or other detrimental side effects when used by the general population. Moreover, the adverse clinical history of fen-phen and dexfen-phen combinations for obesity may result in increased FDA regulatory scrutiny of the safety or the risk/benefit profile of Qnexa and may raise potential adverse publicity in the marketplace, which could affect clinical enrollment or ultimately market acceptance if Qnexa is approved for commercial sale. Our product candidates may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval or limit the commercial profile of an approved label. Side effects caused by our product candidates could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in a more restricted label or the delay or denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities. The most common side effects reported in the first Phase 3 study of avanafil were headache, flushing and nasal congestion. The most common side effects reported in our Phase 3 trials of Qnexa were paresthesia (tingling of the extremities), dry mouth, altered taste, headache and constipation. In addition, the constituent drugs of Qnexa each has its own side effect profile that is included in its current product label. If Qnexa is approved by the FDA, we would anticipate that the label would include the side effect profiles of each 36 Table of Contents of the constituent drugs. While the constituent drugs that make up Qnexa have post-marketing safety records and while we have tested these constituent drugs in combination in our clinical trials of Qnexa, to date, the combination of these constituent drugs has not received regulatory approval. While we believe our Phase 3 Qnexa clinical trials have generated safety and efficacy data, the approvability and eventual labeling of Qnexa will be determined by the FDA. For example, in 2007, the Endocrinologic and Metabolic Drugs Advisory Committee convened by the FDA reviewed another company's obesity product candidate, rimonabant, and determined not to recommend approval of the product candidate to the FDA, based on concerns regarding the safety profile of the product candidate in particular, depression, suicidality and seizures. Phentermine and topiramate are each separately approved for sale by the FDA and have been on the market for many years. In general, significant adverse events and side effects observed in pre-clinical, clinical and post-marketing studies are included in the full prescribing information or label for each drug. The label for TOPAMAX contains reports of side effects, warnings and precautions including metabolic acidosis, acute myopia and secondary angle closure glaucoma, decreased sweating and hyperthermia, cognitive-related dysfunction, psychiatric and behavioral disturbances including one completed suicide in a patient during a bipolar trial, somnolence and fatigue, sudden unexplained death in epileptics, kidney stones, paresthesia and various drug interactions. The label for ADIPEX, a popular branded form of phentermine, contains warnings and precautions including recommendation against coadministration of phentermine with other drugs for weight loss. Adverse side effects include, among other things, pulmonary hypertension, valvular heart disease, drug abuse and dependence, overstimulation, restlessness, dizziness, insomnia, euphoria, dysphoria, tremor, headache, dryness of the mouth, diarrhea, constipation, impotence and changes in libido. The warnings and precautions for both of these products are updated often. Previously published studies suggest that the administration of topiramate alone, in conjunction with diet and a behavioral modification program, results in weight reduction in obese patients. The most prominent side effect seen in the published studies was paresthesia (tingling of the extremities), experienced by 42% to 59% of patients. Drop outs due to paresthesia were 5% or less. In the EQUATE, EQUIP and CONQUER Phase 3 obesity studies, tingling was experienced in 23%, 19% and 21%, respectively, of the patients on the full-dose of Qnexa. In the Phase 2 diabetes study, paresthesia was experienced by 17% of the patients. The other common adverse events reported in the published topiramate monotherapy studies were also central nervous system, or CNS, related including fatigue, difficulty with attention, memory and concentration, and depression. In our obesity and diabetes studies, these CNS-related side effects were low, but they were higher than placebo. The pharmaceutical company performing research of topiramate alone for the treatment of obesity announced they had discontinued their development program including their controlled-release formulation. The FDA has also issued an alert on the use of antiepileptic drugs and a potential risk of increased suicidal ideation. As part of our Phase 3 obesity trials for Qnexa, we prospectively assessed the potential risk of suicidal tendencies. The results of the extensive assessments performed in our Phase 3 trials for Qnexa indicated no signal for suicidal behavior or ideation. On July 10, 2008, the FDA held a Joint Meeting of the Peripheral and Central Nervous System Drugs Advisory Committee and the Psychopharmacologic Drugs Advisory Committee. The advisory committee and representatives from the Pediatric Advisory Committee, and the Drug Safety and Risk Management Advisory Committee considered the results of FDA's analysis of suicidality (both suicidal ideation and behavior) from placebo-controlled clinical studies of 11 antiepileptic drugs. One of the drugs included in the discussion was topiramate (marketed as TOPAMAX, Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc.). The FDA discussed with the committee, in light of the results, whether any additional actions are necessary. The committee recognized that there is an increased risk of suicidality and recommended to the FDA that additional information should be provided to patients regarding the risks and benefits of 37 Table of Contents antiepileptic drugs; however, the committee strongly recommended against a Black Box warning to be applied to antiepileptic drugs. In December 2008, the FDA asked the manufacturers of the antiepileptic drugs included in the analysis to add warnings about suicidality to the labels and to issue a medication guide covering the results of the meta-analysis. In April 2009, the FDA approved these new labels. We anticipate that the label for Qnexa, if approved, will contain the similar suicidality warnings to those contained in the topiramate label. The preliminary experience from an observational registration study conducted in the United Kingdom on women with epilepsy who became pregnant, published in the July 22, 2008 edition of Neurology, stated that the major congenital malformations, or MCM, rate observed in the study among infants born to women who were taking topiramate and other antiepileptics during their pregnancy raised some concerns. The UK Epilepsy and Pregnancy Register is a voluntary registry in the United Kingdom that collects information in order to gather and publish information on the relative safety of antiepileptic drugs in this population. In the study, 203 pregnancies were followed, of which 13 (9%) had an MCM on polytherapy and three (4.8%) had an MCM on topiramate monotherapy. The MCMs included oral clefts and hypospadias. It has been reported that prenatal exposure to certain antiepileptic drugs increases the risk of MCM from a background risk of between 1% and 2% to between 4% and 9%. Pregnant women or women who planned on becoming pregnant were not eligible to participate in the Qnexa clinical trials. Women of child-bearing potential were advised to use and agreed to use two forms of birth control during the study. Patients who became pregnant during the study period were required to immediately discontinue study medication. We are aware that patients in the studies did become pregnant. They were taken off the study medication and followed through to delivery. While we did not observe any changes in teratogenic activity in those pregnancies, we anticipate the labeling for Qnexa, if approved, will contain a warning against use by women who are or are considering becoming pregnant. There were no dropouts in the Qnexa arm of our Phase 2 study due to serious or severe adverse events. In the Phase 3 EQUIP and CONQUER studies, there was no difference between Qnexa (0.4%) and placebo (0.4%) drug-related serious adverse events. In the Phase 3 EQUATE study, there were no reported drug-related serious adverse events. To date, the clinical results we have obtained for our other investigational product candidates, avanafil and Luramist, do not necessarily predict that the results of further testing, including larger, late-stage controlled human clinical testing, will be successful. If our trials are not successful or are perceived as not successful by the FDA, physicians, analysts, investors, the media or the public in general our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially harmed. If any of our product candidates receives marketing approval and we or others identify unknown side effects caused by the product, a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including: •regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product; •regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as a "black box" warning with Qnexa or a contraindication; •we may be required to create a Medication Guide outlining the risks of such side effects for distribution to patients; •we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the product; 38 Table of Contents •we could be asked to formulate a risk evaluation mitigation strategy, or REMS, that could include a program of post-marketing surveillance or restricted distribution for physicians who prescribe our products and patients being treated with our products; •we could be sued and held liable for injury to individuals exposed to or taking our products; and •our reputation may suffer. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of Qnexa and could substantially increase the costs of commercializing our product candidate. Our investigational product candidate, Qnexa, is a combination of drugs approved individually by the FDA that are commercially available and marketed by other companies. As a result, our product may be subject to substitution with individual drugs contained in the Qnexa formulation and immediate competition. Each of the approved drugs that are combined to produce our investigational product candidate, Qnexa, is commercially available at prices lower than the price at which we would seek to market our investigational product candidate. We cannot be sure that physicians will view Qnexa as sufficiently superior to a treatment regime of Qnexa's individual active pharmaceutical ingredients as to justify the significantly higher cost we expect to seek for Qnexa, and they may prescribe the individual generic drugs already approved and marketed by other companies instead of our combination product. Even though our U.S. and European patents contain composition, product formulation and method-of-use claims that we believe protect Qnexa, those patents may be ineffective as a practical matter to protect against physicians prescribing the individual drugs marketed by other companies instead of our combination product. Our patents and pending patent applications do not prevent physicians from prescribing the generic constituents of our product candidates. Phentermine and topiramate are currently available in generic form, although the doses used in Qnexa are currently not available and no controlled or sustained release formulation of topiramate exists. We believe that a practitioner seeking safe and effective therapy is not likely to prescribe such off-label generics in place of Qnexa because the dosage strengths, pharmacokinetic profiles and titration regimens recommended for Qnexa are not available using existing generic preparations of immediate release, or IR, phentermine or topiramate. However, to the extent that the price of Qnexa is significantly higher than the prices of the individual components as marketed by other companies, physicians may have a greater incentive to write prescriptions for the individual components instead of for our combination product, and this may limit how we price or market Qnexa. Similar concerns could also limit the reimbursement amounts private health insurers or government agencies in the U.S. are prepared to pay for Qnexa, which could also limit market and patient acceptance of our product, and could negatively impact our revenues. A physician could seek to prescribe off-label generics in place of Qnexa. Off-label use occurs when a drug that is approved by the FDA for one indication is legally prescribed by physicians for a different indication not approved by the FDA. Topiramate, one of the ingredients in Qnexa, is not approved for obesity treatment. With regard to off-label substitution at the pharmacy level, we cannot be certain that pharmacists and/or pharmacy benefit managers will not seek prescriber authorization to substitute generics in place of Qnexa, which could significantly diminish its market potential. Wide scale generic substitution by physicians and at the pharmacy level could have substantial negative consequences to our business. In many countries where we may plan to market Qnexa, including Europe and Canada, the pricing of prescription drugs is controlled by the government or regulatory agencies. The government or regulatory agencies in these countries could determine that the pricing for Qnexa should be based on prices for its active pharmaceutical ingredients when sold separately, rather than allowing us to market Qnexa at a premium as a new drug. We may choose or be required by regulatory authorities to restrict distribution of Qnexa to specialty pharmacies after physicians and patients register to ensure a safe and secure launch. Our 39 Table of Contents success in distributing our product candidate in this manner could be limited, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flow. The FDA and other regulatory agencies will likely require more extensive or expensive trials for our combination investigational product candidate, Qnexa, than may be required for single agent pharmaceuticals. To obtain regulatory approval for Qnexa, we are required to show that each active pharmaceutical ingredient in our investigational product candidate makes a contribution to the combined investigational product candidate's claimed effects and that the dosage of each component, including amount, frequency and duration, is such that the combination is safe and more effective than each of the components. As a result, we were required to include in our clinical trial protocols an evaluation of each component drug as well as for the component drug in combination. This required us to conduct more extensive and more expensive clinical trials than would be the case for many single agent pharmaceuticals. The need to conduct such trials could make it more difficult and costly to obtain regulatory approval of Qnexa than of a new drug containing only a single active pharmaceutical ingredient. The OB-301, or EQUATE, Phase 3 trial was designed to meet the combination guidelines set by the FDA. The EQUATE study contained separate component arms as well as the combination. We believe the results of the EQUATE study meet FDA guidelines for combination therapy studies; however, there can be no assurance that we have satisfied the combination requirements to the FDA's satisfaction or that further testing of the combination will not be required. The EQUATE study also contained a mid-dose of Qnexa containing 7.5 mg of phentermine and 46 mg of topiramate CR. The mid-dose was also included in the CONQUER, or OB-303, study. We did not complete a component study for the low-dose. We have filed for approval of all three doses. The number of patients on the low-dose in OB-302 or the mid-dose in the OB-303 study may not be sufficient for approval. We have no assurance that any of the doses of Qnexa will be approved or that additional pre-clinical and clinical testing may not be needed prior to approval. In addition, if the FDA does not approve the full-dose of Qnexa, there is no assurance that they would approve the mid-dose or any other dose of Qnexa. We have in-licensed all or a portion of the rights to our product candidates from third parties. If we default on any of our material obligations under those licenses, we could lose rights to our product candidates. We have in-licensed and otherwise contracted for rights to our product candidates, and we may enter into similar licenses in the future to supplement our product candidate pipeline. Under the relevant agreements, we are subject to commercialization, development, sublicensing, royalty, insurance and other obligations. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements, or otherwise breach these license agreements, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license in whole or to terminate the exclusive nature of the license. Loss of any of these licenses or the exclusive rights provided therein could harm our financial condition and operating results. In particular, the United States rights to Evamist and Luramist were licensed from Acrux and its related affiliates. The rights to avanafil were licensed from Tanabe Seiyaku Co., Ltd., or Tanabe, in 2001. In October 2007, Tanabe and Mitsubishi Pharma Corporation completed their merger and announced their name change to Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, or MTPC. The rights to Evamist were sublicensed to K-V. In August 2008, we assigned all of our rights and obligations under the Evamist license agreement to K-V. The rights to Qnexa were licensed from Dr. Najarian in 2001. We believe we are in compliance with all the material terms of our current agreements; however, there can be no assurance that this compliance will continue or that the licensors would not have a differing interpretation of the material terms of the agreements. If the license agreements were terminated early or if the terms of the license were contested for any reason, it would have a material adverse impact on our ability to commercialize products subject to these agreements, our ability to raise funds to finance the company, our stock price and our overall financial condition. The monetary and disruption costs of any disputes involving our collaborative agreements could be significant despite rulings in our favor. 40 Table of Contents For example, VIVUS and Acrux Limited through its wholly owned subsidiary FemPharm Pty Ltd., or Acrux, are parties to the Testosterone Development and Commercialization Agreement dated February 12, 2004, or the Testosterone Agreement. The Testosterone Agreement covers our investigational product candidate, Luramist, which is licensed from Acrux under the Testosterone Agreement. On November 5, 2007, Acrux made a demand for arbitration under the Testosterone Agreement regarding certain claims related to Luramist. Acrux's demand sought a reversion of all rights assigned to us related to Luramist, monetary damages and the payment of a milestone payment for Luramist under the Testosterone Agreement and declaratory relief. We asserted counterclaims against Acrux in the arbitration and sought the enforcement of our rights under the Testosterone Agreement. The arbitration hearing concluded on January 23, 2009, and on April 6, 2009 the panel of arbitrators, or the Panel, issued its Interim Arbitration Award finding in favor of the Company that we were in compliance with the Testosterone Agreement and denying all of the relief sought by Acrux in its demand. The Panel found that we have used diligent, commercially reasonable efforts to develop Luramist. The Panel further ruled in our favor on our counter claim that Acrux had breached the Luramist license agreement by failing to provide certain know-how and certain improvements in the formulation and delivery device for Luramist. The Panel denied the Acrux claim for additional milestone payments. The Panel has ordered Acrux to turn over certain information to us that was previously withheld in violation of the agreement by Acrux. After the parties failed to agree on a new Outside Date by which we are to commence our first Phase 3 trial for Luramist, the Panel reset the Outside Date of April 30, 2006 to April 1, 2010 to reflect the regulatory environment. Acrux will be eligible to receive the previously agreed upon Phase 3 milestone payment of $1 million to be paid out at the earlier of the start of the Phase 3 trials or the Outside Date. Currently we are planning an additional pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic study to review a new formulation of Luramist. Under the agreement with Acrux, a milestone payment of $1 million is due to Acrux upon the earlier of commencing a Phase 3 study for Luramist or the Outside Date, April 1, 2010. The milestone is due in monthly installments of $166,667 for each month of delay in commencing Phase 3 after the Outside Date until the milestone is paid in full. There can be no assurance that Acrux would not continue to pursue legal action against us if we do not commence the first Phase 3 trial by the Outside Date. To the extent we are unable to comply with these obligations, the Luramist license may be terminated. The monetary and disruption costs of this arbitration were significant despite the favorable rulings by the Panel. While we may be entitled to future milestone payments under existing contractual arrangements, we may not receive these payments. Certain of our contractual arrangements include future milestone payments to us based upon the other party achieving defined sales targets. Meeting those milestone targets is dependent on the performance of the other party to the contractual arrangement and we have little, or no, control over those outcomes. We have no assurance any of those milestone targets will be achieved and that the milestones will be paid to us. For example, on March 30, 2007, we entered into a definitive agreement with K-V to transfer the assets and grant a sublicense of our rights under our licensing agreement with Acrux related to Evamist, a metered-dose transdermal spray for the treatment of menopause symptoms, to K-V. Under the terms of this agreement, we are also eligible to receive certain one-time payments of up to $30 million based on K-V achieving certain annual net sales thresholds for Evamist. In January 2009, K-V and certain of its subsidiaries announced a voluntary recall of most of its prescription products. In addition, K-V voluntarily suspended the manufacturing and shipping of all of its products. Subsequent to the recall, K-V announced plans to reduce its workforce by 700 employees. Evamist is not manufactured by K-V and was not subject to the recall. In July 2009, K-V announced that it had hired a firm that specializes in restructurings and bankruptcies. Given the uncertainties with K-V, it is difficult to determine the extent of the adverse impact on Evamist. Although we are entitled to additional 41 Table of Contents milestone payments from future sales of Evamist by K-V, at the present time we do not anticipate receiving any additional milestone payments from sales of Evamist. We are dependent upon collaborative arrangements and strategic alliances. We are, and in the future expect to be, dependent upon collaborative arrangements or strategic alliances to complete the development and commercialization of some of our investigational product candidates, particularly after the Phase 2 stage of clinical testing. These arrangements may place the development of our investigational product candidates outside of our control, may require us to relinquish certain rights or pay royalties, or may otherwise be on terms unfavorable to us. In October 2007, Tanabe and Mitsubishi Pharma Corporation completed their merger and announced their name change to Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, or MTPC. The rights and obligation of our license agreement with Tanabe have been transferred to MTPC. It is unclear at this time what effect, if any, the merger will have on our agreement with MTPC. While we currently have no indication of any adverse material effects with regards to the collaboration, there can be no guarantee that the merger of Tanabe and Mitsubishi will not have an adverse material effect on the performance by MTPC under our agreement, which in turn could lead to a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to enter into favorable agreements with third parties, which could delay or impair our ability to develop and commercialize our investigational product candidates and could increase our costs of development and commercialization. Dependence on collaborative arrangements or strategic alliances will subject us to a number of risks, including the risk that: •we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators may devote to the investigational product candidates; •our collaborators may experience financial difficulties; •our collaborators may be required to disclose our confidential information or may fail to protect our confidential information; •we may be required to relinquish important rights such as marketing and distribution rights; •business combinations or significant changes in a collaborator's business strategy may adversely affect a collaborator's willingness or ability to satisfactorily complete its obligations to meet our requirements under any arrangement; •legal disputes or disagreements may occur with our collaborative partners; •a collaborator could independently move forward with a competing investigational product candidate developed either independently or in collaboration with others, including our competitors; and •collaborative arrangements are often terminated or allowed to expire, which would delay the development and may increase the cost of developing our investigational product candidates. We face significant governmental regulation during our product development activities. The research, testing, manufacturing, selling and marketing of investigational product candidates and approved pharmaceuticals is subject to extensive regulations by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and other countries. We cannot predict with certainty if or when we might submit for regulatory review our investigational product candidates currently under development, except for Qnexa for which the NDA was submitted to the FDA on December 29, 2009. Even if submitted, the FDA can suspend or modify clinical studies at any time if the agency believes that the patients participating in such studies are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. Regulatory approval is never guaranteed, and the approval process typically takes several years and is extremely expensive. The FDA has substantial discretion in the drug approval process. Despite the time and expense involved, failure can occur at any stage. 42 Table of Contents In July 2008, an FDA advisory panel discussed the role of cardiovascular outcomes assessment in the pre-approval and post-approval settings for drugs and biologics developed for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus. The panel recommended that sponsors conduct a long-term cardiovascular trial or to provide other equivalent evidence to rule out an unacceptable cardiovascular risk. The FDA has since published a guidance document in December 2008 for the evaluation of cardiovascular risk in new antidiabetic therapies specifically for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. In general, the FDA recommends that sponsors should compare the incidence of important cardiovascular events occurring with the antidiabetic investigational agent to the incidence of the same type of events with the control group to estimate the relative risk of the investigational antidiabetic agent. This may be accomplished by either conducting an integrated analysis (meta-analysis) of the Phase 2 and Phase 3 studies, if the investigational drug was in late-stage development at the time the December 2008 guidance was published, or conduct a single, large, prospective long-term cardiovascular safety outcomes study prior to NDA submission. A long-term cardiovascular study would take several years to complete and would require resources that may be beyond our current capabilities. Qnexa, in development for diabetes is subject to this recommendation. The FDA, however, has neither required a meta-analysis of the Qnexa Phase 2 and 3 data, nor a prospective long-term cardiovascular safety outcomes study to be performed for Qnexa as a treatment for obesity. There can be no assurance, however, that the FDA would not in the future require us to perform a cardiovascular safety outcomes study, pre- or post-approval, for Qnexa as a treatment for obesity. The FDA has notified healthcare professionals that the review of data from a post-approval outcomes trial of an anti-obesity agent, subutramine, indicates an increased risk of heart attack and stroke in patients with a history of cardiovascular disease. Based on the serious nature of the review findings, the FDA requested, and the manufacturer agreed, to add a new contraindication to the sibutramine drug label stating that sibutramine is not to be used in patients with a history of cardiovascular disease. We have no reason to believe Qnexa would be subject to the same requirements. If we are required to complete a long-term cardiovascular safety outcomes study for Qnexa, the ultimate approval may be delayed for several years and the overall cost of the program will significantly increase. In June 2007, an FDA advisory panel recommended against approval of rimonabant, an oral obesity treatment targeting the CB1 receptor system being developed by another company. Rimonabant was a centrally acting drug that reduces patients' desire to eat. The advisory panel expressed concerns about the impact of the drug on depressed patients and also expressed concerns about patients having thoughts about suicide. In addition, concerns about rimonabant's mechanism of action and interference with the CB1 receptor pathway were also voiced. The company withdrew its NDA for rimonabant shortly after the advisory panel meeting. Although the active ingredients in Qnexa have been previously approved by FDA at higher doses for other indications, it is a centrally acting drug that may increase the risk of psychiatric side effects such as depression and/or suicidal ideation. In December 2004, an FDA advisory panel recommended against approval of a testosterone patch under development by another company to address female sexual dysfunction, specifically hypoactive sexual desire disorder. The FDA indicated that more safety data would be required before it would be in a position to recommend approval. Subsequently, this company withdrew its NDA. We are developing an investigational transdermal testosterone product candidate, Luramist, which is designed to address hypoactive sexual desire disorder. We recently reached agreement with the FDA regarding a long-term cardiovascular event study that we must complete prior to submitting Luramist for approval. We estimate we will have to enroll a minimum of 5,200 patients, over the age of 50, with one cardiovascular risk factor. The average minimum exposure to Luramist in the safety study is 12 months. The safety study is an events-driven study and patients will be followed until the minimum number of pre-defined cardiovascular events has occurred. Despite the agreement with the FDA on the size and scope of the safety study, we may be required to undertake additional or expanded clinical trials, which could be expensive and the cause of significant delays in our ability to submit our investigational 43 Table of Contents product candidate to the FDA for consideration. In the end, we may be unsuccessful in obtaining FDA approval of Luramist or any of our investigational product candidates. We are not permitted to market any of our investigational product candidates in the United States until we receive approval from the FDA. As a consequence, any failure to obtain or delay in obtaining FDA approval for our investigational product candidates would delay or prevent our ability to generate revenue from our investigational product candidates, which would adversely affect our financial results and our business. Our applications for regulatory approval could be delayed or denied due to problems with studies conducted before we licensed some of our investigational product candidates from third parties. We currently license some of our investigational product candidates from third parties. Our present development programs involving these investigational product candidates rely in part upon previous development work conducted by third parties over whom we had no control and before we licensed the investigational product candidates. In order to receive regulatory approval of an investigational product candidate, we must present to the FDA for its review all relevant data and information obtained during research and development, including research conducted prior to our license of the investigational product candidate. Although we are not currently aware of any such problems, any problems that emerge with research and testing conducted prior to our licensing an investigational product candidate may affect future results or our ability to document prior research and to conduct clinical trials, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval for our investigational product candidates. Following regulatory approval of any investigational product candidates, we will be subject to ongoing regulatory obligations and restrictions, which may result in significant expense and limit our ability to commercialize our potential drugs. If one of our investigational product candidates is approved by the FDA or by another regulatory authority for a territory outside of the United States, we will be required to comply with extensive regulations for product manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, distribution, advertising, promotion and record keeping. Regulatory approvals may also be subject to significant limitations on the indicated uses or marketing of the investigational product candidates or who and how we may distribute our products. Even if U.S. regulatory approval is obtained, the FDA may still impose significant restrictions on a product's indicated uses or marketing or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies. For example, the label ultimately approved for Qnexa, if any, may include restrictions on use, including restrictions based on child-bearing potential or pregnancy status, level of obesity and duration of treatment or a boxed warning related to concerns regarding antidepressants, antiepileptics or otherwise. The FDA may also require the distribution of a Medication Guide to patients outlining the increased risk of suicidal thinking or behavior in children and adolescents or other populations. The FDA could also require a registry to track the patients utilizing the product or implement a risk evaluation mitigation strategy, or REMS that could restrict access to the drug. Potentially costly post-marketing clinical studies may be required as a condition of approval to further substantiate safety or efficacy, or to investigate specific issues of interest to the regulatory authority. For example, the safety study for Luramist will require us to follow patients for five years in order to assess potential cardiovascular risks and breast cancer. While we may submit an NDA for Luramist after patients have had an average exposure of 12 months and a minimum number of pre-defined cardiovascular incidences have occurred, there can be no assurance that Luramist will be approved or, if approved, that safety issues would not arise subsequent to such approval. Previously unknown problems with the investigational product candidate, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in restrictions on the marketing of the drug, and could lead to the withdrawal of the drug from the market. 44 Table of Contents Manufacturers of drug products and their facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, regulations, which include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Further, regulatory agencies must approve these manufacturing facilities before they can be used to manufacture our products, and these facilities are subject to ongoing regulatory inspections. In addition, regulatory agencies subject a drug, its manufacturer and the manufacturer's facilities to continual review and inspections. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a drug, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the drug is manufactured, may result in restrictions on the marketing of that drug, up to and including withdrawal of the drug from the market. If our manufacturing facilities or those of our suppliers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, it could result in regulatory action and additional costs to us. Failure to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements may, either before or after product approval, if any, subject our company to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including: •issuance of Form 483 notices, Warning Letters and adverse publicity by the FDA or other regulatory agencies; •imposition of fines and other civil penalties due to product liability or other issues; •criminal prosecutions; •injunctions, suspensions or revocations of regulatory approvals; •suspension of any ongoing clinical trials; •total or partial suspension of manufacturing; •delays in commercialization; •refusal by the FDA to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us or our collaborators; •refusals to permit drugs to be imported into or exported from the United States; •restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; and •product recalls or seizures. In addition, the law or regulatory policies governing pharmaceuticals may change. New statutory requirements may be enacted or additional regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our investigational product candidates. Contract Manufacturing Organizations, or CMOs, and their vendors or suppliers may also face changes in regulatory requirements from governmental agencies in the U.S. and other countries. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature, extent or effects of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the U.S. or elsewhere. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we might not be permitted to market our products and our business could suffer. Even if we receive regulatory approval to commercialize our product candidates, our ability to generate revenues from any resulting products will be subject to a variety of risks, many of which are out of our control. Even if our investigational product candidates obtain regulatory approval, those products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payers or the medical community. Coverage and reimbursement of our product candidates by third-party payors, including government payors, generally is also necessary for optimal commercial success. We believe that the degree of market acceptance and our ability to generate revenues from such products will depend on a number of factors, including: •timing of market introduction of competitive drugs; 45 Table of Contents •efficacy and safety of our product candidates; •prevalence and severity of any side effects; •potential or perceived advantages or disadvantages over alternative treatments including generics; •the relative convenience and ease of administration and dosing schedule; •strength of sales, marketing and distribution support; •price of our future products, both in absolute terms and relative to alternative treatments; •the effectiveness of our or any future collaborators' sales and marketing strategies; •the effect of current and future healthcare laws on our product candidates; •availability of coverage and reimbursement from government and other third-party payers; •the willingness of patients to pay out of pocket in the absence of third-party coverage; and •product labeling or product insert requirements of the FDA or other regulatory authorities. If our approved investigational product candidates, if any, fail to achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to generate significant revenue to achieve or sustain profitability. In addition, our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors on the benefits of our investigational product candidates may require significant resources and may never be successful. We have limited sales and marketing experience and resources and we may not be able to effectively market and sell our investigational product candidates, if approved, in the United States and/or internationally without a global pharmaceutical partner. We are developing Qnexa, our obesity investigational product candidate, for large markets traditionally served by general and family practitioners and internists. Generalist physicians number in the several hundred thousand in the United States. Traditional pharmaceutical companies employ groups of sales representatives numbering in the thousands to call on this large generalist physician population. In order to adequately address these physician groups, we must establish sales and marketing collaborations or co-promotion arrangements or expend significant resources to develop our own sales and marketing presence. We currently possess limited resources and may not be successful in developing our own sales and marketing presence or establishing sales and marketing collaborations or co-promotion arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all. We may also decide to forego any form of collaboration and develop sales and marketing capabilities on our own. We also face competition in our search for collaborators, co-promoters and sales force personnel. We may rely on third parties to develop or commercialize our investigational product candidates. These third parties may fail to develop or effectively commercialize our investigational product candidates because they cannot obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, decide to pursue a competitive potential product that may be developed outside of the collaboration or fail to devote the resources necessary to realize the full commercial potential of our investigational product candidates. Even if our investigational product candidates receive regulatory approval in the United States, we may never receive approval for or commercialize our products outside of the United States. To market any of our investigational product candidates outside of the United States, we and our collaborators must comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks associated with FDA approval as well as additional, presently unanticipated, risks. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining 46 Table of Contents such approval could have the same adverse effects detailed above regarding FDA approval in the United States. As described above, such effects include the risks that our investigational product candidates may not be approved for all indications requested, which could limit the uses of our product candidates and have an adverse effect on their commercial potential or require costly, post-marketing follow-up studies. We rely on third parties to conduct pre-clinical and clinical trials and studies for our investigational product candidates in development and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily. We do not have the ability to conduct pre-clinical or clinical studies for our investigational product candidates without the assistance of third parties who conduct the studies on our behalf. These third parties are usually toxicology facilities, safety monitoring companies, clinical investigators and clinical sites and clinical research organizations, or CROs, which have significant resources and experience in the conduct of pre-clinical and clinical studies. The toxicology facilities conduct the pre-clinical safety studies as well as all associated tasks connected with these studies. Safety monitoring companies collect reported adverse events that are reported from patients and healthcare providers during clinical trials. Clinical investigators and clinical sites enroll patients and conduct clinical testing according to clinical protocols. The CROs typically review data generated by clinical investigators, perform project management, data management, statistical analysis, and other reporting functions. We intend to use several different facilities and CROs for all of our pre-clinical and clinical studies. We have contracted with a safety monitoring company that we intend to use for all of our clinical trials. If these third party toxicology facilities, the safety monitoring company, clinical investigators, clinical sites or CROs do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected timelines, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for our investigational product candidates on a timely basis, if at all, and we may not be able to successfully commercialize these investigational product candidates. If these third party toxicology facilities, the safety monitoring company, clinical investigators, clinical sites or CROs do not perform satisfactorily, we may not be able to locate acceptable replacement third parties or enter into favorable agreements with these third parties, if at all. These third parties may also fail economically, which would impact our ability to obtain and utilize the results of the studies performed by these third parties. We rely on third parties to manufacture sufficient quantities of compounds within product specifications as required by regulatory agencies for use in our pre-clinical and clinical trials and future commercial operations and an interruption to this service may harm our business. We do not have the ability to manufacture the materials we use in our pre-clinical and clinical trials and future commercial operations. Rather, we rely on various third parties to manufacture these materials and there may be long lead times to obtain materials. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, qualify and obtain prior regulatory approval for additional sources of clinical materials. If interruptions in this supply occur for any reason, including a decision by the third parties to discontinue manufacturing, technical difficulties, labor disputes or a failure of the third parties to follow regulations, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for our investigational product candidates and may not be able to successfully commercialize these investigational product candidates. We or our third-party manufacturers may encounter delays and problems in manufacturing our investigational product candidates or approved drugs for a variety of reasons, including accidents during operation, failure of equipment, delays in receiving materials, natural or other disasters, political or governmental changes, or other factors inherent in operating complex manufacturing facilities. Supply chain management is difficult. Commercially available starting materials, reagents and excipients may become scarce or more expensive to procure, and we may not be able to obtain favorable terms in agreements with subcontractors. We or our third-party manufacturers may not be able to operate our respective manufacturing facilities in a cost-effective manner or in a time frame that is consistent with our expected future manufacturing needs. If we or our third-party manufacturers cease or interrupt production or if our third-party manufacturers and other service providers fail to supply materials, products or services to us for any reason, such interruption could delay progress on our programs, or interrupt the commercial supply, with the potential for additional costs and lost revenues. If this were to occur, we may also need to seek alternative means to fulfill our manufacturing needs. 47 Table of Contents We have completed the development of a once-a-day formulation of Qnexa. The contract manufacturer we selected to develop a once-a-day formulation supplied the entire product for the Phase 3 program. In addition, this contract manufacturer is our sole source of clinical and commercial supplies for Qnexa. Stability data of the once-a-day capsule and the container closure system is limited. We have only recently manufactured commercial registration batches of Qnexa. These batches may not pass certain release specifications. In addition, the stability data from these batches may not be adequate on their own to support customary acceptable expiration dating. While this contract manufacturer has significant experience in commercial scale up manufacturing, there is no assurance that they will be successful with the commercial scale up of Qnexa which could have a material adverse impact on our development plan, market price of our common stock and financial condition. We rely on third parties to maintain appropriate levels of confidentiality of the data compiled during clinical trials. We seek to maintain the confidential nature of our confidential information through contractual provisions in our agreements with third parties, including our agreements with clinical research organizations, or CROs, that manage our clinical studies for our investigational product candidates. These CROs may fail to comply with their obligations of confidentiality or may be required as a matter of law to disclose our confidential information. As the success of our clinical studies depends in large part on our confidential information remaining confidential prior to, during and after a clinical study, any disclosure could have a material adverse effect on the outcome of a clinical study, our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to our Operations If we, or our suppliers, fail to comply with FDA and other regulatory agency regulations relating to our commercial manufacturing operations, we may be prevented from manufacturing our products or may be required to undertake significant expenditures to become compliant with such regulations. After regulatory approval for a product is obtained, the product is subject to continual regulatory review. Manufacturing, labeling and promotional activities are continually regulated by the FDA and equivalent foreign regulatory agencies. For example, our third party manufacturers are required to maintain satisfactory compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP. If these manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, our ability to manufacture, market and distribute our products may be adversely affected. In addition, the FDA could issue Warning Letters or could require the seizure or recall of products. The FDA could also impose civil penalties or require the closure of our manufacturing facility until cGMP compliance is satisfactorily achieved. We obtain the necessary raw materials and components for the manufacture of MUSE as well as certain services, such as testing and sterilization, from third parties. We currently contract with suppliers and service providers, including foreign manufacturers. We and these suppliers and service providers are required to follow cGMP requirements and are subject to routine and unannounced inspections by the FDA and by state and foreign regulatory agencies for compliance with cGMP requirements and other applicable regulations. Upon inspection of these facilities, the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may find the manufacturing process or facilities are not in compliance with cGMP requirements and other regulations. One example of non-conformance came to light during the first quarter of 2009, when we, as part of our routine testing, identified that certain lots of the 125 mcg and 250 mcg strength MUSE product had exceeded the specified limit of allowable impurities. The identified product was out of compliance with the impurity specification in the 18th-24th month of its shelf life. In 2008, sales of the 125 mcg and 250 mcg strength MUSE represented 11% of our worldwide sales. Upon identifying this 48 Table of Contents non-conformance, we promptly notified the FDA. The occurrence of known impurities to some level is typical within most pharmaceutical products. Our investigation concerning this MUSE impurity issue identified that the elevation in impurities was caused during the routine sterilization process. We continue to perform monitoring for impurities and additional lots of commercialized product may also be identified as containing levels of impurity that exceed the product's specifications. Although we believe that this impurity poses no safety risk to the patients, as part of our commitment to maintaining cGMP and compliance to FDA regulations, on May 20, 2009, VIVUS sent a notice to our wholesale distributors to recall specific lots of 125 mcg and 250 mcg product that remain in the wholesaler's inventory. The quantities of recalled product received-to-date by VIVUS from the recall effort have not been significant. There can be no assurance that a further product recall will not occur in the future from similar or other variations of the manufacturing process. Also, there can be no assurance that inherent and future variations in the sterilization process will not produce product that will exceed the product's impurity specification or that would have some other adverse effect that would still render the product to not be within its full range of specification over the full course of its shelf life. Should a further recall be necessary, there may be periods when the 125 mcg and 250 mcg strength MUSE product are not fully available to the commercial market and these strengths may go into a back order status. All MUSE products had a 24-month shelf life; however, in September 2009, we received approval from the FDA to reduce the shelf life of our 125 mcg and 250 mcg MUSE product from 24 months to 18 months. We are currently manufacturing the 125 mcg and 250 mcg MUSE product with an 18-month shelf life. During the fourth quarter of 2009, we began to manufacture and ship125 mcg and 250 mcg MUSE product with an 18-month shelf life. In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2009, we used the newly manufactured 125 mcg and 250 mcg product with the 18-month shelf life dating to replace and exchange any then existing 125 mcg and 250 mcg product in the wholesalers' inventories that had the prior 24-month shelf life dating. We completed the product exchange during the fourth quarter of 2009. The FDA and/or international regulatory agencies may require us to perform extensive investigations and/or process revalidations in relationship to the resolution of this issue. Should such extensive investigations or process revalidations be necessary, a further product recall be made, or a product shortage and back order occur, there could be a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Non-conformance issues may occur in our manufacturing operations or in the operations of our vendors and suppliers, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to manufacture our products and investigational product candidates. For example, in late March 2008, we identified a non-conformance issue in one container of a raw material for MUSE, as supplied by the raw material vendor. All MUSE units manufactured from this container were within the VIVUS held inventory, were separated from our other inventory and were subsequently destroyed. As required, we appropriately notified the FDA of this raw material incident. In a timely manner, we completed an investigation of this non-conformance, which concluded that the impact of this raw material non-conformance was limited to those units of MUSE produced from the one subject container. All of these units had already been identified and separated out of our normal inventory. We also shared our findings and actions directly with the FDA. We have negotiated a partial financial settlement with the supplier of this non-conforming material. Although we believe this incident to be complete from a product impact point of view, there can be no assurance that any future raw material non-conformance would not have a much greater negative impact to production, inventory supply, market demand supply, or even require a recall of previously distributed MUSE units. In addition, the costs associated with a future interruption in supply could be significant and our future financial results could be adversely affected. Failure to achieve satisfactory cGMP compliance as confirmed by routine and unannounced inspections could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to manufacture and distribute our commercial products and, in the most serious case, result in the issuance of a regulatory 49 Table of Contents warning letter or seizure or recall of products, injunction and/or civil penalties or closure of our manufacturing facility until cGMP compliance is achieved. If we fail to comply with healthcare regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. As a manufacturer of pharmaceuticals, even though we do not and will not control referrals of healthcare services or bill directly to Medicare, Medicaid or other third party payors, certain federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud, abuse and patients' rights are and will be applicable to our business. We are subject to healthcare fraud, abuse and patient privacy regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The regulations that may affect our ability to operate include, but are not limited to: •the federal healthcare program Anti-Kickback Law, which prohibits, among other things, persons from soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce either the referral of an individual, for an item or service or the purchasing or ordering of a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; •federal false claims laws, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third party payors that are false or fraudulent, and which may apply to entities like us that provide coding and billing advice to customers or promoting our commercial products for "off-label" use; •the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which prohibits executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters and which also imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; and •state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third party payor, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion of our products from medical healthcare programs like Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Although compliance programs can mitigate the risk of investigation and prosecution for violations of these laws, the risks cannot be entirely eliminated. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable federal and state privacy, security and fraud laws may prove costly. Any pre-marketing and marketing activities for our investigational product candidates and approved products are subject to continued governmental regulation. Prior to and after product approval by the FDA, any pre-marketing and marketing activities will be subject to FDA and other regulatory review. Certain activities undertaken prior to approval may be considered pre-approval promotion. Pre-approval promotion of investigational product candidates is 50 Table of Contents prohibited by FDA regulations. Failure to comply with these regulations may result in delays in the ultimate approval of our investigational product candidates. After approval, if products are marketed in contradiction with FDA mandates, the FDA may issue Warning Letters that require specific remedial measures to be taken, as well as an immediate cessation of the impermissible conduct resulting in adverse publicity. The FDA may also order that all future promotional materials receive prior agency review and approval before use. Certain states have also adopted regulations and reporting requirements surrounding the promotion of pharmaceuticals. MUSE, and Qnexa, if approved, would be subject to these regulations. Failure to comply with state requirements may affect our ability to promote or sell pharmaceuticals products in certain states. This in turn could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and financial condition. We must continue to monitor the use of our approved products and may be required to complete post-approval studies mandated by the FDA. Even if we receive regulatory approval of our investigational product candidates, such approval may involve limitations on the indicated uses or marketing claims we may make for our products and distribution channels. For example, the safety study for Luramist requires that we follow patients for five years in total to detect cardiovascular events and breast cancer. Further, later discovery of previously unknown problems for Luramist or any of our investigational product candidates could result in additional regulatory restrictions, including withdrawal of products. The FDA may also require us to commit to perform lengthy post-approval studies, for which we would have to expend significant additional resources, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and stock price. Failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements can result in, among other things, civil penalties, suspensions of regulatory approvals, product recalls, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. The restriction, suspension or revocation of regulatory approvals or any other failure to comply with regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We depend exclusively on third party distributors outside of the United States and we have very limited control over their activities. We entered into an agreement granting Meda exclusive marketing and distribution rights for MUSE in Member States of the European Union. Meda currently sells MUSE in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Sweden, Norway, Germany, Switzerland, Denmark, Finland, France and the Netherlands. This agreement does not have minimum purchase commitments and we are entirely dependent on Meda's efforts to distribute and sell MUSE effectively in all these markets. There can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful or that Meda will continue to support MUSE. We entered into an agreement granting Paladin Labs, Inc. exclusive marketing and distribution rights for MUSE in Canada. This agreement does not have minimum purchase commitments and we are entirely dependent on Paladin Labs' efforts to distribute and sell our product effectively in Canada. There can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful or that Paladin Labs will continue to support MUSE. Sales of our current and any future products are subject to continued governmental regulation, as well as our ability to accurately forecast demand and our ability to produce sufficient quantities to meet demand. Sales of our products both inside and outside the United States will be subject to regulatory requirements governing marketing approval. These requirements vary widely from country to country and could delay the introduction of our proposed products in those countries. After the FDA and international regulatory authorities approve a product, we must manufacture sufficient volumes to meet market demand. This is a process that requires accurate forecasting of market demand. There is no 51 Table of Contents guarantee that there will be market demand for any future products or that we will be able to successfully manufacture or adequately support sales of any future products. We have limited sales and marketing capabilities in the United States. We support MUSE sales in the United States through a small direct sales force targeting major accounts. Telephone marketers also focus on urologists who prescribe MUSE. Physician and patient information/help telephone lines are available to answer additional questions that may arise after reading the product labeling or after actual use of the product. There can be no assurance that our MUSE sales programs will effectively maintain or potentially increase current sales levels. There can be no assurance that demand for MUSE will continue or that we will be able to adequately support sales of MUSE in the United States in the future. If we are unable to establish capabilities to sell, market and distribute our investigational product candidates, either by developing our own capabilities or entering into agreements with others, we will not be able to successfully launch our investigational product candidates upon FDA approval. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to hire the qualified sales and marketing personnel we need. We may not be able to enter into any marketing or distribution agreements with third party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. In that event, our ability to generate revenues will be adversely affected. We have little or no control over our wholesalers' buying patterns, which may impact future revenues, returns and excess inventory. For domestic sales we sell our product primarily to major wholesalers located in the United States. As a result, most of our revenues are derived from the three major wholesalers. We rely solely on our wholesaler customers to effect the distribution allocation of our product. There can be no assurance that these customers will adequately manage their local and regional inventories to avoid outages, build-ups or result in excessive returns for expiration. We do not control or significantly influence the purchasing patterns of wholesale customers. These are highly sophisticated customers that purchase products in a manner consistent with their industry practices and perceived business interests. Our sales are subject to the purchasing requirements of our major customers, which presumably are based upon projected volume levels. Purchases by any customer, during any period may be above or below the actual prescription volumes of our product during the same period, resulting in increases or decreases in inventory existing in the distribution channel. Although the demand for MUSE has stabilized, we are not able to anticipate if our largest wholesaler customer, McKesson Corporation, will continue its historical pattern of making purchases in the fourth quarter that exceed expected quarterly demands. If McKesson Corporation does not repeat this pattern of purchasing quantities of MUSE that exceed quarterly demands, revenues from the sale of MUSE in 2010 may be lower as compared to 2009. Sales to significant customers as a percentage of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 are as follows: 2009 2008 2007 McKesson Corporation 54 % 51 % 53 % Cardinal Health 21 % 21 % 15 % Meda AB 9 % 12 % 14 % AmerisourceBergen 11 % 12 % 11 % 52 Table of Contents The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and we may be unable to compete successfully against new entrants or established companies. Competition in the pharmaceutical and medical products industries is intense and is characterized by costly and extensive research efforts and rapid technological progress. We are aware of several pharmaceutical companies also actively engaged in the development of therapies for the treatment of obesity, diabetes and sexual health and device companies for the treatment of sleep apnea. These companies have substantially greater research and development capabilities as well as substantially greater marketing, financial and human resources than we do. In addition, many of these companies have significantly greater experience than us in undertaking pre-clinical testing, human clinical trials and other regulatory approval procedures. Our competitors may develop technologies and products that are more effective than those we are currently marketing or researching and developing. Such developments could render our products or our investigational product candidates less competitive or possibly obsolete. We are also competing with respect to marketing capabilities and manufacturing efficiency, areas in which we have limited experience. Mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures and similar events may also significantly change the competition. Current approved anti-obesity drugs include Xenical (orlistat), marketed by Roche, and Meridia (sibutramine), marketed by Abbott Labs. Orlistat works by inhibiting lipase, thus preventing digestion and absorption of dietary fat in the gastrointestinal tract. In January 2010, the EMEA suspended the marketing authorization of sibutramine in Europe. The FDA added additional warnings to the label for sibutramine. The impact of these changes for sibutramine on Qnexa is unknown at this time. There are several drugs in development for obesity including product candidates in Phase 3 clinical trials being developed by Novo Nordisk A/S and Orexigen Therapeutics, Inc., and approximately 20 product candidates in Phase 2 clinical trials by companies including Neurosearch A/S and GlaxoSmithKline, among others. Partners Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited and Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. announced in February 2010 that they are planning late-stage testing of an anti-obesity agent. Arena Pharmaceuticals, Inc. has completed Phase 3 studies and in December 2009 submitted an NDA with the FDA for its product candidate. All of these drugs are or will be marketed by pharmaceutical companies with substantially greater resources than us. In addition, a number of generic pharmaceutical products are prescribed for obesity, including phentermine, phendimetrazine, mazindol, benzphetamine and diethylpropion. Some of these generic drugs, and others, are prescribed in combinations that have shown some level of efficacy. These products are sold at much lower prices than we intend to charge for our investigational product candidate, Qnexa, if approved. The availability of a large number of branded prescription products, generic products and over-the-counter products could limit the demand for, and the price we are able to charge for, our obesity investigational product candidate. In October 2008, Sanofi-Aventis announced that it halted sales of its weight loss drug, Acomplia, in the wake of a recommendation by a European regulatory panel that the product be pulled off the market over safety concerns. The company has also halted all human trials of the Acomplia obesity medicine after health authorities in a few countries requested local tests be stopped. In January 2010, Abbott Labs suspended the sales of sibutramine in Europe. There are also surgical approaches to treat severe obesity that are becoming increasingly accepted and could become competitors against our product candidate, Qnexa. Two of the most well established surgical procedures are gastric bypass surgery and adjustable gastric banding. In addition, other potential approaches that utilize various implantable devices or surgical tools are in development. Some of these approaches are in late stage development and may be approved for marketing. Companies such as Allergan, Inc., Boston Scientific Corporation, Covidien Ltd, EnteroMedics, Inc., GI Dynamics, Inc., Johnson & Johnson, Leptos Biomedical, Inc., Medtronic Inc., and Satiety, Inc. are all active in this space and may have substantially greater resources than we have. 53 Table of Contents Significant competitive therapies exist for MUSE and avanafil in the form of oral medications marketed by Pfizer, Inc. under the name Viagra®, Cialis® marketed by Eli Lilly and Company, and Levitra®, which is co-marketed by GlaxoSmithKline plc and Schering-Plough Corporation in the United States. There are currently three PDE5 inhibitors approved for the treatment of erectile dysfunction in the U.S.: sildenafil, vardenafil, and tadalafil. Worldwide sales of these products were approximately $3.8 billion in 2009. Additional PDE5 inhibitors are in various stages of development by other companies. Warner-Chilcott plc has licensed the U.S. rights to udenafil, a PDE5i from Dong-A. Warner-Chilcott continues the Phase 3 development of this compound for ED. Other treatments for erectile dysfunction, or ED, exist, such as needle injection therapies, vacuum constriction devices and penile implants, and the manufacturers of these products will most likely continue to develop or improve these therapies. In November 2007, NexMed, Inc., or NexMed, announced that the NDA submitted for its ED product, Vitaros®, a topically applied alprostadil cream, was accepted for review by the FDA. In February 2009, NexMed announced that they had sold the U.S. rights to Vitaros to Warner Chilcott Company, Inc. (a subsidiary of Warner Chilcott, Ltd., NASDAQ:WCRX), or Warner. Under the reported terms of the agreement, NexMed received an initial, up-front payment of $2.5 million and is eligible to receive an additional payment of $2.5 million upon Warner's receipt of FDA approval of the NDA. If the NDA for Vitaros is approved and Warner is successful in commercializing this product, the sales of MUSE will decline, which will have an adverse effect on the results of our operations and cash flows from sales of MUSE. We have also become aware of compounding pharmacies that are selling various products that include alprostadil. The sale of these products may violate certain intellectual property rights we own. The impact of the sales of products sold by compounding pharmacies that include alprostadil is unknown. Two companies are developing products that could compete with our investigational product candidates for the treatment of FSD. The Proctor & Gamble Company has been developing Intrinsa, a testosterone patch for the treatment of HSDD, but announced in December 2008 that they will halt research and consider divestiture of their four key pharmaceutical brands, including Intrinsa. On August 24, 2009, Proctor & Gamble Company and Warner Chilcott plc announced an agreement for the sale of Proctor & Gamble's pharmaceuticals business to Warner Chilcott plc for an up-front cash payment of $3.1 billion. BioSante Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is developing forms of testosterone gels for HSDD. None of these investigational products have been approved by the FDA. In July 2006, the European Medicines Agency granted marketing authorization of Intrinsa for the treatment of HSDD in bilaterally oophorectomized and hysterectomized women and in February 2007, Intrinsa was launched in France and Germany. In March 2007, Intrinsa became available through the National Health Service in the United Kingdom. Boehringer Ingelheim, or BI, has reported Phase 3 results of flibanserin, an oral agent, for the treatment of HSDD. BI reported data from pooled, pivotal Phase 3 clinical trials that demonstrate flibanserin 100 mg taken once daily at bedtime significantly increased the number of Satisfying Sexual Events, or SSEs, and sexual desire while significantly decreasing the distress associated with HSDD. Pooled North American Phase 3 trial results (DAISY and VIOLET) of 1,378 pre-menopausal women with HSDD showed a statistically significant increase in the frequency of SSEs per month in women taking flibanserin 100 mg (from 2.8 at baseline to 4.5), versus placebo (2.7 at baseline increasing to 3.7) over the 24-week study period. Flibanserin also demonstrated statistically significant improvements in sexual desire versus placebo as measured by an electronic diary (the eDiary For HSDD Trials). This finding was further supported by data from the desire domain of the Female Sexual Function Index, or FSFI, as an independent secondary measure. Other key secondary endpoints showed flibanserin significantly improved sexual functioning (as measured by the FSFI total score), distress related to sexual dysfunction (as measured by the Female 54 Table of Contents Sexual Distress Scale-Revised, or FSDS-R, score) and distress related to low sexual desire (FSDS-R Item 13 score) versus placebo. European Phase 3 trial results for ORCHID of 634 pre-menopausal women with HSDD showed women taking flibanserin 100 mg had statistically significant improvements in their level of sexual desire, as measured by the eDiary. These findings were supported by a trend towards an increase in the FSFI desire domain. In addition, there was a statistically significant improvement in the level of distress associated with sexual dysfunction (as measured by the FSDS-R total score) as well as distress related to low sexual desire (FSDS-R Item 13) which is the second key parameter for the diagnosis of HSDD. A numerical increase in the number of SSEs compared to placebo supports the efficacy of flibanserin in pre-menopausal women suffering with HSDD. New developments, including the development of other drug technologies and methods of preventing the incidence of disease, occur in the pharmaceutical and medical technology industries at a rapid pace. These developments may render our investigational product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. Compared to us, many of our potential competitors have substantially greater: •research and development resources, including personnel and technology; •regulatory experience; •drug development and clinical trial experience; •experience and expertise in exploitation of intellectual property rights; and •access to strategic partners and capital resources. As a result of these factors, our competitors may obtain regulatory approval of their products more rapidly than we or may obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limit our ability to develop or commercialize our investigational product candidates. Our competitors may also develop drugs or surgical approaches that are more effective, more useful and less costly than ours and may also be more successful in manufacturing and marketing their products. In addition, our competitors may be more effective in commercializing their products. We currently outsource our manufacturing and therefore rely on third parties for that competitive expertise. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop or contract for these capabilities on acceptable economic terms, or at all. If our raw material supplier fails to supply us with the active pharmaceutical ingredients, or APIs, for our products and investigational product candidates, for which availability is limited, we may experience delays in our product development and commercialization. We are required to receive regulatory approval for suppliers. We obtained our supply of alprostadil from two approved sources, NeraPharm, s.r.o., in the Czech Republic and Chinoin Pharmaceutical and Chemical Works Private Co., Ltd., in Hungary. Currently, we only have a manufacturing agreement with Chinoin to produce additional quantities of alprostadil for us. Furthermore, our current supply of alprostadil is subject to periodic re-testing to ensure it continues to meet specifications. There can be no guarantees that our existing inventory of alprostadil will pass these re-testing procedures and continue to be usable material. During the second quarter of 2009 a portion of our existing inventory of alprostadil exceeded its shelf life and is no longer usable in the manufacturing of MUSE. We do not expect the loss of this material to impede our ability to meet the demand for MUSE. There is a long lead-time for manufacturing alprostadil. A shortage in supply of alprostadil to be used in the manufacture of MUSE would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 55 Table of Contents In addition, we currently do not have supply agreements in place for phentermine or topiramate, the APIs used in our investigational product candidate, Qnexa. Nor do we have a supply agreement for the commercial manufacture of Qnexa, if approved. There can be no guarantees that we will be able to enter into such agreements under reasonable terms, if at all. We cannot guarantee that should we be successful in entering into such agreements we will be able to obtain the necessary prior regulatory approvals for these suppliers. We outsource several key parts of our operations and any interruption in the services provided by third parties could harm our business. Under our outsourcing agreement with Cardinal Health, Inc. related to MUSE, Cardinal Health warehouses our finished goods for United States distribution; takes customer orders; picks, packs and ships our products; invoices customers; and collects related receivables. As a result of this distribution agreement, we are heavily dependent on Cardinal Health's efforts to fulfill orders and warehouse our products effectively in the United States. There can be no assurance that such efforts will continue to be successful. Under our testing agreement, Gibraltar Laboratories performs sterility testing on finished product manufactured by us to ensure that it complies with product specifications. Gibraltar Laboratories also performs microbial testing on water and compressed gases used in the manufacturing process and microbial testing on environmental samples to ensure that the manufacturing environment meets appropriate cGMP regulations and cleanliness standards. As a result of this testing agreement, we are dependent on Gibraltar Laboratories to perform testing and issue reports on finished product and the manufacturing environment in a manner that meets cGMP regulations. We have an agreement with WRB Communications to handle patient and healthcare professional hotlines to answer questions and inquiries about MUSE. Calls to these hotlines may include complaints about our products due to efficacy or quality, as well as the reporting of adverse events. As a result of this agreement, we are dependent on WRB Communications to effectively handle these calls and inquiries. There can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful. We entered into a distribution agreement with Integrated Commercialization Services, or ICS, a subsidiary of AmerisourceBergen Corporation. ICS provides direct-to-physician distribution of product samples in support of United States marketing and sales efforts. As a result of this distribution agreement, we are dependent on ICS's efforts to distribute product samples effectively. We rely on two companies, E-Beam Services, Inc., or E-Beam, and Beam One, LLC, or Beam One, for the sterilization of MUSE. Although both companies are approved for the sterilization of MUSE, E- Beam is not currently an operational facility. If E-Beam is unable to become operational or interruptions in MUSE sterilization services occur for any reason, including a decision by E-Beam or Beam One to discontinue providing these services, political unrest, labor disputes or a failure of E-Beam or Beam One to follow regulations, the commercial marketing of MUSE and the development of other potential products could be prevented or delayed. An extended interruption in sterilization services would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently depend on a single source for the supply of alprostadil and an interruption to this supply could harm our business. We rely on a single manufacturing company, Chinoin Pharmaceutical and Chemical Works Private Co., Ltd., in Hungary, or Chinoin, for our supply of alprostadil. We currently have a written manufacturing agreement with Chinoin to supply alprostadil through 2011. There is no assurance that we will be able to re-establish a manufacturing agreement with NeraPharm, s.r.o., in the Czech Republic, or NeraPharm, an alternative supplier from whom we previously purchased alprostadil, or 56 Table of Contents that we will be able to identify and qualify additional sources of alprostadil. We are required to receive FDA approval for new suppliers before using a new supply source. Until we secure a new manufacturing agreement with NeraPharm or qualify additional sources of alprostadil, we are entirely dependent upon Chinoin. If interruptions in this supply occur for any reason, including a decision by Chinoin to discontinue manufacturing, labor disputes or a failure of Chinoin to follow regulations, the manufacture and marketing of MUSE and other potential products could be delayed or prevented. An extended interruption in the supply of alprostadil could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We currently depend on a single source for the supply of plastic applicator components for MUSE and an interruption to this supply source could harm our business. We rely on a single injection molding company, Medegen Medical Products, LLC, or Medegen, for our supply of plastic applicator components. In turn, Medegen obtains its supply of resin, a key ingredient of the applicator, from a single source, Flint Hills Resources. Orders to Medegen are made on a periodic basis with purchase orders. We do not have a written agreement with Medegen for the supply of the plastic applicator components. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain components from Medegen or to identify and qualify additional sources of components or that Medegen will be able to identify and qualify additional sources of resin. We are required to receive FDA approval for new suppliers prior to using supplies from a new vendor. Until we secure and qualify additional sources of plastic components, we are entirely dependent upon Medegen. If interruptions in this supply occur for any reason, including a decision by Medegen to discontinue manufacturing, labor disputes, a failure of Medegen to follow regulations or the inability of Medegen to secure a new source of resin, the manufacture and marketing of MUSE and other potential products could be delayed or prevented. An extended interruption in the supply of plastic components could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We were notified by Medegen that the Flint Hills Resources facility in Texas discontinued manufacturing the resin required for MUSE plastic components in early 2009. The Flint Hills Resources facility in Texas has been the single source used by Medegen for the MUSE plastic components. Medegen has some inventory of resin from the Flint Hills Texas facility. We currently have in inventory plastic components from Medegen to support the projected MUSE production requirements through the second quarter of 2011. Medegen has identified a new source of resin and re-qualified all of our molds. There is no assurance the manufacturing molds will continue to pass inspection and be available for future use. The inability to utilize these molds and the inability of Medegen to secure an alternative resin supplier would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently depend on a single source for the supply of laminated foil components for MUSE and an interruption to this supply source could harm our business. We rely on a single lamination company, Glenroy, Inc., or Glenroy, for our supply of laminated foil. In turn, Glenroy obtains its supply of resin, a key ingredient of the laminated foil, from a single source, Flint Hills Resources in Texas. Orders to Glenroy are made on a periodic basis with purchase orders. We do not have a written agreement with Glenroy for the supply of the laminated foil. If we are unable to obtain foil from Glenroy for any reason, or if we are unable to identify and qualify additional sources of foil, or additional foil produced using a new resin, we could experience interruptions in supply, which would harm our business. We are required to receive FDA approval for new suppliers prior to using supplies from a new vendor. Until we secure and qualify additional sources of laminated foil, we are entirely dependent upon Glenroy. If interruptions in this supply occur for any reason, including a decision by Glenroy to discontinue manufacturing, labor disputes, a failure of Glenroy to follow regulations or the inability of Glenroy to secure an alternative resin supplier, the 57 Table of Contents manufacture and marketing of MUSE and other potential products could be delayed or prevented. An extended interruption in the supply of laminated foil could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We were notified by Glenroy that the Flint Hills Resources facility located in Texas discontinued manufacturing the resin required for laminated foil in early 2009. The Flint Hills Resources Texas facility has been the single source used by Glenroy for the MUSE laminated foil. We currently have in inventory laminated foil from Glenroy to support the projected MUSE production requirements through the second quarter of 2011. Glenroy has identified a new source of resin and is in the process of qualifying the vendor. Our inability to secure a qualified source for additional laminated foil and/or Glenroy's inability to secure the necessary resin would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Previously, there was a global shortage of Acetonitrile, a solvent that is required in the testing and verification of MUSE, and an interruption to this supply could harm our business. In early 2009, we were notified by several of our laboratory supply vendors of a global shortage of Acetonitrile, a solvent that is required in the testing and verification of MUSE. Currently, there is no issue with securing Acetonitrile and we believe the global shortage has ended. However, our inability to secure Acetonitrile in the future would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. All of our manufacturing operations are currently conducted at a single location, and a prolonged interruption to our manufacturing operations could harm our business. We own two buildings with a total combined 90,000 square feet in Lakewood, New Jersey. This facility is used for our MUSE manufacturing operation, which includes formulation, filling, packaging, analytical laboratories, storage, distribution and administrative offices, although one of the buildings is used for warehousing component parts. The FDA and the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency, the regulatory authority in the United Kingdom, authorized us to begin commercial production and shipment of MUSE from this facility in June and March 1998, respectively. MUSE is manufactured in this facility and we have no plans to construct another manufacturing site. Since MUSE is produced with custom-made equipment under specific manufacturing conditions, the inability of our manufacturing facility to produce MUSE for whatever reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon a single approved therapeutic approach to treat erectile dysfunction. MUSE relies on a single approved therapeutic approach to treat erectile dysfunction, a transurethral system. The existence of side effects or dissatisfaction with this product may impact a patient's decision to use or continue to use, or a physician's decision to recommend, this therapeutic approach as a therapy for the treatment of erectile dysfunction, thereby affecting the commercial viability of MUSE. In addition, competitive products, technological changes or medical advancements could further diminish or eliminate the commercial viability of our product, the results of which could have a material effect on our business operations and results. 58 Table of Contents We depend upon consultants and outside contractors extensively in important roles within our company. We outsource many key functions of our business and therefore rely on a substantial number of consultants, and we will need to be able to effectively manage these consultants to ensure that they successfully carry out their contractual obligations and meet expected deadlines. However, if we are unable to effectively manage our outsourced activities or if the quality or accuracy of the services provided by consultants is compromised for any reason, our clinical trials or other development activities may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our investigational product candidates or otherwise advance our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our existing consultants or find other competent outside contractors and consultants on economically reasonable terms, or at all. If we fail to retain our key personnel and hire, train and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to compete effectively, which could result in reduced revenues or delays in the development of our product candidates . Our success is highly dependent upon the skills of a limited number of key management personnel. To reach our business objectives, we will need to retain and hire qualified personnel in the areas of manufacturing, sales and marketing, research and development, regulatory affairs, clinical trial design, execution and analysis, and pre-clinical testing. There can be no assurance that we will be able to hire or retain such personnel, as we must compete with other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other agencies. The loss of any of our key personnel or the failure to attract or retain necessary new employees could have an adverse effect on our research, product development and business operations. Allegations of discrimination, wrongful termination or other employment matters, regardless of merit, could negatively affect our operations by causing us to allocate additional monetary and personnel resources to these issues. In the ordinary course of business we may become involved in lawsuits and subject to various claims from current and former employees including wrongful termination, sexual discrimination, retaliation, hostile work environment and other employment matters. We are currently a party to a lawsuit involving a former employee. We have also been named as a potential defendant in a complaint filed by a former employee. We have investigated each of the claims and believe the allegations have no merit and that we have meritorious defenses to any such allegations. Due to the current economic downturn, employees may be more likely to file employment-related claims. Employment-related claims also appear more likely following a poor performance review. Although there may be no merit to such claims or legal matters, we may be required to allocate additional monetary and personnel resources to defend against these type of allegations. We are subject to additional risks associated with our international operations. MUSE is currently marketed internationally. Changes in overseas economic and political conditions, cultural terrorism, currency exchange rates, foreign tax laws or tariffs or other trade regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The international nature of our business is also expected to subject us and our representatives, agents and distributors to laws and regulations of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate or where our products are sold. The regulation of drug therapies in a number of such jurisdictions, particularly in the European Union, continues to develop, and there can be no assurance that new laws or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. 59 Table of Contents Any adverse changes in reimbursement procedures by government and other third party payors may limit our ability to market and sell our products or limit our product revenues and delay profitability. In the United States and elsewhere, sales of pharmaceutical products are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement to the consumer from third party payors, such as government and private insurance plans. Third party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Some third party payor benefit packages restrict reimbursement or do not provide coverage for specific drugs or drug classes. While a large percentage of prescriptions in the United States for MUSE have been reimbursed to some extent by third party payors since our commercial launch in January 1997, there can be no assurance that our products will be considered cost effective and that reimbursement to the consumer will continue to be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a competitive basis. In addition, certain healthcare providers are moving towards a managed care system in which such providers contract to provide comprehensive healthcare services, including prescription drugs, for a fixed cost per person. We are unable to predict the reimbursement policies employed by third party healthcare payors. Furthermore, reimbursement for MUSE could be adversely affected by changes in reimbursement policies of governmental or private healthcare payors. The healthcare industry is undergoing fundamental changes that are the result of political, economic and regulatory influences. The levels of revenue and profitability of pharmaceutical companies may be affected by the continuing efforts of governmental and third party payors to contain or reduce healthcare costs through various means. Reforms that have been and may be considered include mandated basic healthcare benefits, controls on healthcare spending through limitations on the increase in private health insurance premiums and the types of drugs eligible for reimbursement and Medicare and Medicaid spending, the creation of large insurance purchasing groups and fundamental changes to the healthcare delivery system. These proposals include measures that would limit or prohibit payments for some medical treatments or subject the pricing of drugs to government control and regulations changing the rebates we are required to provide. These changes could impact our ability to maximize revenues in the Federal marketplace. In addition, Congress currently is considering health care reform legislation that could affect the prices of MUSE or our investigational product candidates under certain health care programs. These proposals include expanding the 340B drug pricing program to allow additional types of health care providers to purchase drugs at significant discounts and to require those discounts on inpatient drugs as well, increasing the minimum Medicaid drug rebate percentage, expanding Medicaid rebate liability to drugs purchased under Medicaid managed care contracts, increasing the Medicaid rebate on new formulations of existing drugs, and requiring Medicaid rebates to be paid on drugs provided to certain enrollees in the Medicare Part D prescription drug benefit. Due to uncertainties regarding the outcome of healthcare reform initiatives and their enactment and implementation, we cannot predict which, if any, of the reform proposals will be adopted or the effect such adoption may have on us. There can be no assurance that future healthcare legislation or other changes in the administration or interpretation of government healthcare or third party reimbursement programs will not have a material adverse effect on us. Healthcare reform is also under consideration in other countries where we currently or intend to market our product. We expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of MUSE and our investigational product candidates, if approved, due to the trend toward managed health care, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative proposals. If we fail to successfully secure and maintain reimbursement coverage for MUSE or our investigational product candidates or are significantly delayed in doing so, we will have difficulty achieving market acceptance of our products and our business will be harmed. Congress has recently been discussing and may be in the process of enacting healthcare reform, which, if enacted, could adversely affect the pharmaceutical industry as a whole, and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business. 60 Table of Contents Both of the active ingredients in Qnexa, phentermine and topiramate are available as generics. Based on the research we have completed to date, we are unable to determine if Qnexa, if approved, will be subject to reimbursement or at what level reimbursement may occur. The exact doses of the active ingredients in the final formulation of Qnexa will be different than those currently available. State pharmacy law prohibits pharmacists from substituting drugs with differing doses and formulations. The safety and efficacy of Qnexa is highly dependent on the titration, dosing and formulation, which we believe could not be easily duplicated, if at all, with the use of generic substitutes. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to provide for optimal reimbursement of Qnexa for obesity or any other indication, if approved, from third party payors or the United States government. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that healthcare providers would not actively seek to provide patients with generic versions of the active ingredients in Qnexa in order to treat obesity at a potential lower cost. Federal legislation may increase the pressure to reduce prices of pharmaceutical products paid for by Medicare, which could adversely affect our revenues, if any. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, or MMA, expanded Medicare coverage for drug purchases by the elderly and disabled beginning in 2006. Under the MMA, private insurance plans subsidized by the government offer prescription drug coverage to Medicare beneficiaries who elect to enroll in their plans. Although almost all prescription drugs are potentially available to plan enrollees, the plans are allowed to use formularies, preferred drug lists and similar mechanisms to favor selected drugs and limit access to other drugs except in certain circumstances. The price of a drug as negotiated between the manufacturer and a plan is a factor that the plan can consider in determining its availability to enrollees. As a result, we expect that there will be increased pressure to reduce prices for drugs to obtain favorable status for them under the plans offering prescription drug coverage to Medicare beneficiaries. This pressure could decrease the coverage and price that we receive for our products in the future and could seriously harm our business. It is possible that our investigational product candidate, Qnexa, if approved, could be particularly subject to price reduction initiatives because it is based on combinations of lower priced existing drugs. In addition, some members of Congress advocate that the federal government should negotiate directly with manufacturers for lower prices for drugs in the Medicare program, rather than rely on private plans. If the law were changed to allow or require such direct negotiation, there could be additional reductions in the coverage of and prices that we receive for our products. Federal legislation and actions by state and local governments may permit re-importation of drugs from foreign countries into the United States, including foreign countries where the drugs are sold at lower prices than in the United States, which could adversely affect our operating results and our overall financial condition. We may face competition for our products from lower priced products from foreign countries that have placed price controls on pharmaceutical products. The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 contains provisions that may change United States importation laws and expand consumers' ability to import lower priced versions of our investigational product candidates and competing products from Canada, where there are government price controls. These changes to United States importation laws will not take effect unless and until the Secretary of Health and Human Services certifies that the changes will lead to substantial savings for consumers and will not create a public health safety issue. The Secretary of Health and Human Services has not yet announced any plans to make this required certification. As directed by Congress, a task force on drug importation conducted a comprehensive study regarding the circumstances under which drug importation could be safely conducted and the consequences of importation on the health, medical costs and development of 61 Table of Contents new medicines for United States consumers. The task force issued its report in December 2004, finding that there are significant safety and economic issues that must be addressed before importation of prescription drugs is permitted. In addition, a number of federal legislative proposals have been made to implement the changes to the United States importation laws without any certification, and to broaden permissible imports in other ways. Even if the changes do not take effect, and other changes are not enacted, imports from Canada and elsewhere may continue to increase due to market and political forces, and the limited enforcement resources of the FDA, the United States Customs Service and other government agencies. For example, Pub. L. No. 109-295, which was signed into law in October 2006 and provides appropriations for the Department of Homeland Security for the 2007 fiscal year, expressly prohibits the United States Customs Service from using funds to prevent individuals from importing from Canada less than a 90-day supply of a prescription drug for personal use, when the drug otherwise complies with the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. Further, several states and local governments have implemented importation schemes for their citizens and, in the absence of federal action to curtail such activities, we expect other states and local governments to launch importation efforts. The importation of foreign products that compete with our own products could negatively impact our financial condition. Defending against claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of hazardous materials could be time consuming and expensive. Our research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials and our operations produce hazardous waste products. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from those materials. Various laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. We may be sued for any injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production efforts. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of our CROs, safety monitoring company and other contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, accidents, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. While we have not experienced any such system failure, accident or security breach to date, if such an event were to occur and cause interruptions in our operations, it could result in a material disruption of our drug development programs and drug manufacturing operations. For example, the loss of clinical trial data from completed or ongoing clinical trials for our investigational product candidates could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and the further development of our investigational product candidates could be delayed. Natural disasters or resource shortages could disrupt our operations product development efforts and adversely affect results. Our MUSE manufacturing operation is conducted in a single location in Lakewood, New Jersey. In the event of a natural disaster in that region, such as a storm, drought or flood, or localized extended outages of critical utilities or transportation systems, we do not have a formal business continuity or disaster plan, and could therefore experience a significant business interruption. Furthermore, our ongoing or planned clinical trials could be delayed or disrupted indefinitely upon the occurrence of a natural disaster. For example, in 2005, our clinical trials in the New Orleans area were interrupted by Hurricane Katrina. In addition, our offices are located in the San Francisco Bay 62 Table of Contents Area, near known earthquake fault zones and are therefore vulnerable to damage from earthquakes. In October 1989, a major earthquake in our area caused significant property damage and a number of fatalities. We are also vulnerable to damage from other disasters such as power loss, fire, floods and similar events. If a significant disaster occurs, our ability to continue our operations could be seriously impaired and we may not have adequate insurance to cover any resulting losses. Any significant unrecoverable losses could seriously impair our operations and financial conditions. Risks Relating to our Intellectual Property We may be sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of others or others may infringe on our intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that our products do not or will not infringe on the patent or proprietary rights of others. In addition, third parties may already own or may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of our technologies infringes these patents. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of the time and attention of management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any such claims. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize and sell products, and such claims could result in the award of substantial damages against us. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. In that case, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products or be required to cease commercializing affected products and our operating results would be harmed. We believe the Supreme Court ruling in KSR International Co. vs. Teleflex, Inc. raised the standards for patentability and ease the ability to show that a patent is obvious. This ruling will make it more difficult to obtain patents for combination pharmaceutical products. At the present time, we are unable to predict the impact, if any, that this ruling will have on our current or future patents and patent applications. If we are unable to defend the patents currently issued on our commercial product and investigational product candidates, or to obtain new patents for any reason, our ability to commercialize the current and future products would be at risk. Our inability to adequately protect our proprietary technologies could harm our competitive position and have a material adverse effect on our business. We hold various patents and patent applications in the United States and abroad targeting obesity and morbidities related to obesity including sleep apena and diabetes and male and female sexual health among other products. Qnexa is our investigational product candidate involving low doses of phentermine and topiramate. On June 6, 2006, the initial United States patent was issued by the USPTO. This patent contains composition, product, and other claims that should protect Qnexa, if approved, as a proprietary product for the treatment of obesity. The term of this patent extends into 2020. In January 2009, the European Patent Office granted European patent No. 1,187,603, which broadly covers Qnexa and its use as a weight loss treatment. The patent extends the intellectual property protection of Qnexa beyond the already issued patents in the United States and abroad. We are in the process of prosecuting patent applications in other countries as well, to obtain significant foreign patent coverage for both Qnexa and future generations of Qnexa. Furthermore, we have filed additional patent applications in the United States to expand the coverage that will be provided by U.S. Patent No. 7,056,890 B2. On March 9, 2010, U.S. Patent No. 7,674,776 issued with method, composition, and dosage form claims, including claims drawn to a method for treating Syndrome X, a common multisymptomatic disorder often found in obese patients, and to a method for treating side effects of obesity such as sleep apnea. On February 9, 2010, U.S. Patent No. 7,659,256 issued significantly broadenening both the method and composition-of-matter protection afforded Qnexa by 63 Table of Contents our initial U.S. Patent No. 7,056,890 B2. On June 30, 2009, U.S. Patent No. 7,553,818 was issued drawn to a method for effecting weight loss by co-administration of varying doses of phentermine and topiramate. This patent also expands on the initial coverage provided by our U.S. Patent No. 7,056,890 B2. Each of these U.S. patents for Qnexa expires in 2020. The primary focus of the patent applications is on combination therapy using a sympathomimetic agent (such as phentermine) and an anticonvulsant (such as topiramate) for the treatment of obesity and other related disorders. We are aware of issued patents for the use of topiramate alone or in combination for obesity. We have worked closely with our patent counsel to put together a cogent patent strategy and are building a strong patent portfolio in an attempt to obtain exclusivity over the life of the patents. The procedures for obtaining a patent in the United States and in most foreign countries are complex. These procedures require an analysis of the scientific technology related to the invention and many sophisticated legal issues. Obtaining patent rights outside the United States often requires the translation of highly technical documents and an improper translation could lead to the loss of, or otherwise jeopardize, the patent protection of our inventions. Ensuring adequate quality of translators and foreign patent attorneys is often very challenging. Consequently, the process for having our pending patent applications issue as patents will be difficult, complex and time consuming. We do not know when, or if, we will obtain additional patents for our technologies, or if the scope of the patents obtained will be sufficient to protect our product candidates, or be considered sufficient by parties reviewing our patent positions pursuant to a potential licensing or financing transaction. In addition, other entities may challenge the validity or enforceability of our patents and patent applications in litigation or administrative proceedings. Even the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability. We cannot make assurances as to how much protection, if any, will be given to our patents if we attempt to enforce them or they are challenged. It is possible that a competitor or a generic pharmaceutical provider may successfully challenge our patents and those challenges may result in reduction or elimination of our patents' coverage. The USPTO has over the last few years tried to enact and/or has proposed changes in the rules governing (i) the duties of patent applicants to disclose information that relates to their applications, (ii) the ability of patent applicants to file unlimited numbers of patent applications and patent claims that concern closely related inventions and/or different aspects of the same invention, and (iii) the manner in which the USPTO will decide whether to require patent applicants to separate closely related inventions into separate patent applications. Some of these rule changes are being challenged in the courts. It is unclear which of these rule changes, if any, will be allowed by the courts and which of them will continue to be pursued. In addition, the United States Congress is considering changes to federal patent laws on several issues including, but not limited to: (i) the information can be used to determine whether an invention is not new and, therefore, not patentable, (ii) the limits on the independent administrative rulemaking authority of the USPTO, (iii) the duties of patent applicants to disclose information that relates to their applications, (iv) whether, under what circumstances, and how many times a third party can challenge an issued United States patent before the USPTO, (v) whether and under what circumstances patent applicants can lose their ability to enforce their patents in the United States based on their failure to disclose certain information relating to their inventions, and (vi) how damages for patent infringement may be reduced based by a number of factors, including the similarity of a patented invention to preexisting technologies. We believe that the United States is by far the largest single market for pharmaceuticals in the world. Because of the critical nature of patent rights to the pharmaceutical industry, changes in United States patent rules and laws could have a profound effect on our future profits. Several of the patent rule and law changes that are being considered could significantly weaken patent protections in the United States in general. They may also have a disproportionately large negative impact on the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries in particular, as well as tilt the balance of market control and distribution of profits between the manufacturers of patented pharmaceutical products and the 64 Table of Contents manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products towards the generics manufacturers. At present there is considerable uncertainty as to which patent rules and laws will be changed and whether changes to the patent rules will ultimately be enforced or struck down by the courts. Our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. Others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies or products. These companies would then be able to develop, manufacture and sell products that compete directly with our products. In that case, our revenues and operating results would decline. We seek to protect our confidential information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators, CROs, consultants and potential investors. Nevertheless, employees, collaborators, consultants or potential investors may still disclose or misuse our confidential information, and we may not be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets. In addition, others may independently develop substantially equivalent information or techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Disclosure or misuse of our confidential information would harm our competitive position and could cause our revenues and operating results to decline. A dispute regarding the infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of others could be costly and result in delays or termination of our future research, development, manufacturing and sales activities. Our commercial success also depends upon our ability to develop and manufacture our product candidates and market and sell our drugs and conduct our research and development activities without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. There are many patents and patent applications filed, and that may be filed, by others relating to drug discovery and development programs that could be determined to be similar, identical or superior to ours or our licensors or collaborators. We may be exposed to future litigation by others based on claims that our product candidates, technologies or activities infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Numerous United States and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications owned by others also exist in the therapeutic areas in, and for the therapeutic targets for, which we are developing drugs. There are also numerous issued patents and patent applications to chemical compounds or synthetic processes that may be necessary or useful to use in our research, development, manufacturing or commercialization activities. These could materially affect our ability to develop our product candidates or manufacture, import or sell drugs, and our activities, or those of our licensors or collaborators, could be determined to infringe these patents. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our investigational product candidates or technologies may infringe. There also may be existing patents, of which we are not aware, that our investigational product candidates or technologies may infringe. Further, there may be issued patents or pending patent applications in fields relevant to our business, of which we are or may become aware, that we believe (i) are invalid or we do not infringe; (ii) relate to immaterial portions of our overall drug discovery, development, manufacturing and commercialization efforts; or (iii) in the case of pending patent applications, the resulting patent would not be granted or, if granted, would not likely be enforced in a manner that would materially impact such efforts. We cannot assure you that others holding any of these patents or patent applications will not assert infringement claims against us for damages or seek to enjoin our activities. We also cannot assure you that, in the event of litigation, we will be able to successfully assert any belief we may have as to non-infringement, invalidity or immateriality, or that any infringement claims will be resolved in our favor. In addition, others may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary rights, and we may have to institute costly legal action to protect our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to afford the costs of enforcing or defending our intellectual property rights against others. 65 Table of Contents There could also be significant litigation and other administrative proceedings in our industry that affect us regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Any legal action or administrative action against us, or our collaborators, claiming damages or seeking to enjoin commercial activities relating to our drug discovery, development, manufacturing and commercialization activities could: •require us, or our collaborators, to obtain a license to continue to use, manufacture or market the affected drugs, methods or processes, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; •prevent us from importing, making, using, selling or offering to sell the subject matter claimed in patents held by others and subject us to potential liability for damages; •consume a substantial portion of our managerial, scientific and financial resources; or •be costly, regardless of the outcome. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of pre-trial document and witness discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. We cannot protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world. Filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patents on all of our drug discovery technologies and all of our potential investigational product candidates throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive. Competitors may use our technologies to develop their own drugs in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection. These drugs may compete with our investigational product candidates and may not be covered by any of our patent claims or other intellectual property rights. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. Many countries, including certain countries in Europe, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties (for example, the patent owner has failed to "work" the invention in that country or the third party has patented improvements). In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may have limited remedies, which could materially diminish the value of the patent. Compulsory licensing of life-saving drugs is also becoming increasingly popular in developing countries either through direct legislation or international initiatives. Such compulsory licenses could be extended to include some of our product candidates, which could limit our potential revenue opportunities. Moreover, the legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biotechnology and/or pharmaceuticals, which makes it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. We may face additional competition outside of the United States as a result of a lack of patent enforcement in foreign countries and off-label use of other dosage forms of the generic components in our investigational product candidates. While we have filed patent applications in many countries outside the United States, and have obtained some patent coverage for certain of our product candidates in certain foreign countries, we do not currently have widespread patent protection for Qnexa outside the United States and have no 66 Table of Contents protection in many foreign jurisdictions. Even if international patent applications ultimately issue or receive approval, it is likely that the scope of protection provided by such patents will be different from, and possibly less than, the scope provided by our corresponding U.S. patents. The success of our international market opportunity is dependent upon the enforcement of patent rights in various other countries. A number of countries in which we have filed or intend to file patent applications have a history of weak enforcement and/or compulsory licensing of intellectual property rights. Even if we have patents issued in these jurisdictions, there can be no assurance that our patent rights will be sufficient to prevent generic competition or unauthorized use. We may face competition from the off-label use of other dosage forms of the generic components in our product candidates. In addition, others may attempt to commercialize our product candidate combinations in countries or other markets where we do not have patent protection for all of our product candidates. In particular, it is possible that patients will seek to acquire the generic IR components of our product candidate Qnexa (phentermine and topiramate). The off-label use of the generic IR components in the United States or the importation of the generic IR components from foreign markets could adversely affect the commercial potential for our product candidates and adversely affect our overall business and financial results. We may be subject to claims that we, or our employees, have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. We employ individuals who were previously employed at other pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although we have no knowledge of any pending or overtly threatened claims, we may be subject to claims that these employees, or we, have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. We may be unable to in-license intellectual property rights or technology necessary to develop and commercialize our products. Depending on its ultimate formulation and method of use, before we can develop, clinically test, make, use, or sell a particular investigational product candidate, we may need to obtain a license from one or more third parties who have patent or other intellectual property rights covering components of our investigational product candidate or its method of use. There can be no assurance that such licenses will be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If a third party does not offer us a necessary license or offers a license only on terms that are unattractive or unacceptable to us, we might be unable to develop and commercialize one or more of our investigational product candidates. Our failure to successfully acquire, develop and market additional investigational product candidates or approved products would impair our ability to grow. As part of our growth strategy, we may acquire, in-license, develop and/or market additional products and investigational product candidates. Because our internal research capabilities are limited, we may be dependent upon pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic scientists and other researchers to sell or license products or technology to us. The success of this strategy depends partly upon our ability to identify, select and acquire promising pharmaceutical product candidates and products. 67 Table of Contents The process of proposing, negotiating and implementing a license or acquisition of a product candidate or approved product is lengthy and complex. Other companies, including some with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us for the license or acquisition of product candidates and approved products. We have limited resources to identify and execute the acquisition or in-licensing of third-party products, businesses and technologies and integrate them into our current infrastructure. Moreover, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions or in-licensing opportunities that are never completed, or we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such efforts. We may not be able to acquire the rights to additional product candidates on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. In addition, future acquisitions may entail numerous operational and financial risks, including: •exposure to unknown liabilities; •disruption of our business and diversion of our management's time and attention to develop acquired products or technologies; •incurrence of substantial debt or dilutive issuances of securities to pay for acquisitions; •higher than expected acquisition and integration costs; •increased amortization expenses; •difficulty and cost in combining the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel; •impairment of relationships with key suppliers or customers of any acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership; and •inability to retain key employees of any acquired businesses. Further, any product candidate that we acquire may require additional development efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive clinical testing and approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. All product candidates are prone to risks of failure typical of pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that a product candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and effective for approval by regulatory authorities. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that any products that we develop or approved products that we may acquire will be commercialized profitably or achieve market acceptance. We may participate in new partnerships and other strategic transactions that could impact our liquidity, increase our expenses and present significant distractions to our management. From time to time we consider strategic transactions, such as out-licensing or in-licensing of compounds or technologies, acquisitions of companies and asset purchases. Additional potential transactions we may consider include a variety of different business arrangements, including strategic partnerships, joint ventures, spin-offs, restructurings, divestitures, business combinations and investments. In addition, another entity may pursue us as an acquisition target. Any such transactions may require us to incur non-recurring or other charges, may increase our near and long-term expenditures and may pose significant integration challenges, require additional expertise or disrupt our management or business, which could harm our operations and financial results. As part of an effort to enter into significant transactions, we conduct business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating material risks involved in the transaction. Despite our efforts, we ultimately may be unsuccessful in ascertaining or evaluating all such risks and, as a result, might not realize the intended advantages of the transaction. If we fail to realize the expected benefits from any transaction we may consummate, whether as a result of unidentified risks, integration difficulties, regulatory setbacks or other events, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 68 Table of Contents Setbacks and consolidation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, and our or our collaborators' inability to obtain third-party coverage and adequate reimbursement, could make partnering more difficult and diminish our revenues. Setbacks in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, such as those caused by safety concerns relating to high-profile drugs like Avandia, Vioxx and Celebrex, or drug candidates, as well as competition from generic drugs, litigation, and industry consolidation, may have an adverse effect on us. For example, pharmaceutical companies may be less willing to enter into new collaborations or continue existing collaborations if they are integrating a new operation as a result of a merger or acquisition or if their therapeutic areas of focus change following a merger. Moreover, our and our collaborators' ability to commercialize any of our drugs that may be approved will depend in part on government regulation and the availability of coverage and adequate reimbursement from third-party payers, including private health insurers and government payers, such as the Medicaid and Medicare programs, increases in government-run, single-payer health insurance plans and compulsory licenses of drugs. Government and third-party payers are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting coverage and reimbursement levels for new drugs. Given the continuing discussion regarding the cost of healthcare, managed care, universal healthcare coverage and other healthcare issues, we cannot predict with certainty what additional healthcare initiatives, if any, will be implemented or the effect any future legislation or regulation will have on our business. These efforts may limit our commercial opportunities by reducing the amount a potential collaborator is willing to pay to license our programs or drug candidates in the future due to a reduction in the potential revenues from drug sales. Moreover, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change before regulatory agencies approve our product candidates for marketing. Adoption of such legislation and regulations could further limit pricing approvals for, and reimbursement of, drugs. A government or third-party payer decision not to approve pricing for, or provide adequate coverage and reimbursements of, our product candidates could limit market acceptance of such drugs. We will need to obtain FDA approval of our proposed product names and any failure or delay associated with such approval may adversely impact our business. Any name we intend to use for our investigational product candidates will require approval from the FDA, regardless of whether we have secured a formal trademark registration from the USPTO. The FDA typically conducts a rigorous review of proposed product names, including an evaluation of potential for confusion with other product names. The FDA may also object to a product name if it believes the name inappropriately implies medical claims. If the FDA objects to one of our proposed product names, we will be required to adopt an alternative name for that investigational product candidate. If we adopt an alternative name, we would lose the benefit of our existing trademark applications and may be required to expend significant additional resources in an effort to identify a suitable product name that would qualify under applicable trademark laws, not infringe the existing rights of third parties and be acceptable to the FDA, which could cause delays that would adversely impact our business. We may be unable to build a successful brand identity for a new trademark in a timely manner or at all, which would limit our ability to commercialize our investigational product candidates. Risks Relating to our Financial Position and Need for Financing We require additional capital for our future operating plans, and we may not be able to secure the requisite additional funding on acceptable terms, or at all, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate product development programs or commercialization efforts. We expect that our existing capital resources combined with future anticipated cash flows will be sufficient to support our operating activities at least into 2011. However, we anticipate that we will be required to obtain additional financing to fund the development of our research and development 69 Table of Contents pipeline in future periods as well as to support the possible launch of any future products. Our future capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: •the progress and costs of our research and development programs; •the scope, timing and results of pre-clinical studies and clinical trials; •patient recruitment and enrollment in planned and future clinical trials; •the costs involved in seeking regulatory approvals for our investigational product candidates; •the costs involved in filing and pursuing patent applications, defending and enforcing patent claims; •the establishment of collaborations, sublicenses and strategic alliances and the related costs including milestone payments; •the costs involved in establishing a commercial operation and in launching a product without a partner; •the cost of manufacturing and commercialization activities and arrangements; •the results of operations; •demand for MUSE; •the potential forced purchase of the royalty streams we previously sold to Deerfield; •the cost, timing and outcome of regulatory reviews; •the rate of technological advances; •ongoing determinations of the potential commercial success of our investigational product candidates under development; •the state of the economy and financing environment; •the level of resources devoted to sales and marketing capabilities; •the regulatory approval environment and regulatory hurdles for safety assessment for new product candidates; •the health care reimbursement system or the impact of healthcare reform, if any, imposed by the new administration; and •the activities of competitors. Future capital requirements will also depend on the extent to which we acquire or invest in additional complementary businesses, products and technologies. We currently have no commitments or agreements relating to any of these types of transactions. We have substantially less money than we need to develop our compounds into commercially available drugs. It takes many years and potentially hundreds of millions of dollars to successfully develop a pre-clinical or early clinical compound into an approved and commercially marketed drug, and our efforts may not result in any additional marketed drugs, aside from MUSE. We may need additional funds or a partner to bring our most advanced investigational product candidate, Qnexa, to market, if ever. To obtain additional capital when needed, we will evaluate alternative financing sources, including, but not limited to, the issuance of equity or debt securities, corporate alliances, joint ventures and licensing agreements. However, there can be no assurance that funding will be available on favorable terms, if at all. We are continually evaluating our existing portfolio and we may choose to divest, sell or spin-off one or more of our products or investigational product candidates at any time. We cannot assure you that we will successfully develop our investigational product candidates under development or, if successfully developed or approved, that our products will generate revenues sufficient to enable us to earn a profit. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, management may be required to 70 Table of Contents explore alternatives to reduce cash used by operating activities, including the termination of research and development efforts that may appear to be promising to us, the sale of certain assets and the reduction in overall operating activities. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our development programs or our commercialization efforts. Raising additional funds by issuing securities will cause dilution to existing stockholders and raising funds through lending and licensing arrangements may restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our existing stockholders' ownership will be diluted. We have financed our operations, and we expect to continue to finance our operations, primarily by issuing and selling our common stock. In light of our need for additional financing, we may issue additional shares of common stock that could dilute your ownership in our company and may include terms that give new investors rights that are superior to yours. For example, on September 23, 2009, we sold 10,350,000 shares of our common stock through an underwriting agreement at a price of $10.50 per share resulting in gross proceeds to us of $108.7 million. Moreover, any issuances by us of equity securities may be at or below the prevailing market price of our common stock and in any event may have a dilutive impact on your ownership interest, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We may also raise additional funds through the incurrence of debt, and the holders of any debt we may issue would have rights superior to your rights in the event we are not successful and are forced to seek the protection of bankruptcy laws. In addition, debt financing typically contains covenants that restrict operating activities. Our loan with Crown Bank, N.A., is secured by the land and buildings, among other assets, located at our principal manufacturing facility and a $700,000 Certificate of Deposit held by Crown. Additionally, our intellectual property and all of the accounts receivable, inventory and equipment arising out of or relating to MUSE and avanafil are collateral for the Deerfield transaction, which also contains a variety of covenants, including requiring us to use commercially reasonable efforts to preserve our intellectual property, manufacture, promote and sell MUSE, and develop avanafil. Any future debt financing we enter into may involve similar or more onerous covenants that restrict our operations. If we raise additional funds through collaboration, licensing or other similar arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our current product candidates, potential products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If adequate funds are not available, our ability to achieve profitability or to respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited and we may be required to delay, significantly curtail or eliminate the development of one or more of our product candidates. The current global economic environment poses severe challenges to our business strategy, which relies on access to capital from the markets and our collaborators. The global economy, including credit markets and the financial services industry, has been experiencing a period of substantial turmoil and uncertainty. These conditions have generally made equity and debt financing more difficult to obtain, and may negatively impact our ability to complete financing transactions. The duration and severity of these conditions is uncertain, as is the extent to which they may adversely affect our business and the business of current and prospective collaborators and vendors. If the global economy does not improve or worsens, we may be unable to secure additional funding to sustain our operations or to find suitable partners to advance our internal programs, even if we receive positive results from our research and development or business development efforts. 71 Table of Contents Our investment in the clinical development and manufacture of a commercial supply of Qnexa may not result in any benefit to us if Qnexa is not approved for commercial sale. We have invested significant resources in the clinical development of Qnexa. We are planning for and investing significant resources now in preparation for application for marketing approval and planning for manufacture of commercial supply and sales and marketing. Our engagement in these resource-intensive activities puts significant investment at risk if we do not obtain regulatory approval and successfully commercialize Qnexa in the United States. There is no assurance that our development of Qnexa will lead successfully to regulatory approval, or that obtaining regulatory approval will lead to commercial success. If Qnexa is not approved for commercial sale or if its development is delayed for any reason, our full investment in Qnexa may be at risk, we may face significant costs to dispose of unusable inventory, and our business and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. The investment of our cash balance and our available-for-sale securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. At December 31, 2009, we had $40.8 million in cash and cash equivalents and $166.2 million in available-for-sale securities. While at December 31, 2009 our excess cash balances were invested in money market and U.S. Treasury securities, our investment policy as approved by the Board of Directors, also provides for investments in debt securities of U.S. government agencies, corporate debt securities and asset-backed securities. The investment policy has the primary investment objectives of preservation of principal; however, there may be times when certain of the securities in our portfolio will fall below the credit ratings required in the policy. If those securities are downgraded or impaired we would experience losses in the value of our portfolio which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. An investment in money market mutual funds is not insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any other government agency. Although money market mutual funds seek to preserve the value of the investment at $1 per share, it is possible to lose money by investing in money market mutual funds. The holders of our stock and other securities may take actions that are contrary to your interests, including selling their stock. A small number of our stockholders hold a significant amount of our outstanding stock. These stockholders may support competing transactions and have interests that are different from yours. Sales of a large number of shares of our stock by these large stockholders or other stockholders within a short period of time could adversely affect our stock price. Capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain on an investment in our stock for the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. We may become involved in securities class action litigation that could divert management's attention and harm our business. The stock markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the common stock of pharmaceutical companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology and biopharmaceutical 72 Table of Contents companies have experienced significant stock price volatility in recent years. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation often is expensive and diverts management's attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. We have an accumulated deficit of $234.1 million as of December 31, 2009 and we may continue to incur substantial operating losses for the future. We have generated a cumulative net loss of $234.1 million for the period from our inception through December 31, 2009, and we anticipate losses in future years due to continued investment in our research and development programs. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve or maintain profitability or that we will be successful in the future. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income may be limited. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $170.5 million of net operating loss, or NOL, carryforwards with which to offset our future taxable income for federal and state income tax reporting purposes. We used $121.2 million federal and $32.2 million state NOLs to offset our year ended December 31, 2007 federal and state tax liabilities, which included the $150 million in gain recognized from the Evamist sale. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, contains provisions that may limit the net operating loss and credit carryforwards available for use in any given period upon the occurrence of certain events, including significant change in ownership interest. Should this occur, our future ability to use NOLs to offset taxable earnings would be limited in accordance with the Internal Revenue Code. We may be unable to collect on our claim for reimbursement of product and establishment and NDA application fees from the FDA. We believe we are due a refund of approximately $2.1 million pursuant to Section 736(d)(1)(C) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FDC Act from the FDA for product and establishment fees paid in 2007, 2008 and 2009 on the basis that the fees paid exceed the anticipated present and future costs incurred by the FDA in conducting the process for the review of human drug applications for VIVUS, Inc. To date, we have collected $1.3 million from the FDA. We believe that we will collect these remaining refund amounts from the FDA; however, should we be unable to collect on these claims, we will be required to reverse all or some part of these remaining receivables. If we become subject to product liability claims, we may be required to pay damages that exceed our insurance coverage. The commercial sale of MUSE and our clinical trials expose us to a significant risk of product liability claims. In addition, pharmaceutical products are subject to heightened risk for product liability claims due to inherent side effects. We identify potential side effects in the patient package insert and the physician package insert, both of which are distributed with MUSE. While we believe that we are reasonably insured against these risks, we may not be able to obtain insurance in amounts or scope sufficient to provide us with adequate coverage against all potential liabilities. A product liability claim in excess of, or excluded from, our insurance coverage would have to be paid out of cash reserves and could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. Product liability insurance is expensive, difficult to maintain, and current or increased coverage may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, we develop, test and manufacture drugs that are used by humans. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in clinical trials. An individual may bring a liability claim against us if one of our product candidates or drugs causes, or merely appears to have caused, an injury. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against a product 73 Table of Contents liability claim, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: •decreased demand for our drug; •injury to our reputation; •withdrawal of clinical trial patients; •costs of related litigation; •substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; •loss of revenues; and •the inability to commercialize our product candidates. Damages awarded in a product liability action could be substantial and could have a negative impact on our financial condition. Whether or not we were ultimately successful in product liability litigation, such litigation would consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources, and might result in adverse publicity, all of which would impair our business. Risks Relating to an Investment in our Common Stock Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to continue to be so. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate due to factors including, but not limited to: •the FDA review of our NDA for Qnexa for obesity; •results within the clinical trial programs for Qnexa and avanafil or other results or decisions affecting the development of our investigational product candidates; •announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; •announcements of Phase 3 data of other anti-obesity compounds in development; •announcements by licensors of our technology; •the outcome of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA, routine review of trading surrounding the September 9, 2009 announcement of positive results from the EQUIP (OB-302) and CONQUER (OB-303) studies evaluating the safety and efficacy of Qnexa; •our ability to increase demand for our products in the United States and internationally; •our ability to successfully sell our products in the United States and internationally; •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial results; •our ability to obtain needed financing; •sales by insiders; •economic conditions in the United States and abroad; •the volatility and liquidity of the financial markets; •comments by or changes in assessments of us or financial estimates by security analysts; •adverse regulatory actions or decisions; •any loss of key management; •the results of our clinical trials relative to those of our competitors; •deviations in our operating results from the estimates of securities analysts or other analyst comments; 74 Table of Contents •discussions of us or our stock price by the financial and scientific press and in online investor communities; •developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; •licensing, product or patent litigation; and •public concern as to the safety of products developed by us. These factors and fluctuations, as well as political and other market conditions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Securities class action litigation is often brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation, whether with or without merit, could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources, which could harm our business and financial condition, as well as the market price of our common stock. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain or recruit key employees, all of whom have been or will be granted stock options as an important part of their compensation packages. Volatility in the stock prices of other companies may contribute to volatility in our stock price. The stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Global Market and the market for life sciences companies in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Further, there has been particular volatility in the market prices of securities of early stage and development stage life sciences companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Our stock price could decline significantly based on the results and timing of clinical trials and pre-clinical studies of, and decisions affecting, our most advanced product candidates. The results and timing of clinical trials and pre-clinical studies can affect our stock price. Pre-clinical studies include experiments performed in test tubes, in animals, or in cells or tissues from humans or animals. These studies include all drug studies except those conducted in human patients, and may occur before or after initiation of clinical trials for a particular compound. Results of clinical trials and pre-clinical studies of Qnexa, avanafil or our other product candidates may not be viewed favorably by us or third parties, including investors, analysts, potential collaborators, the academic and medical community, and regulators. The same may be true of how we design the development programs of our most advanced product candidates and regulatory decisions (including by us or regulatory authorities) affecting those development programs. Biotechnology and biopharmaceutical company stock prices have declined significantly when such results and decisions were unfavorable or perceived negatively or when a drug candidate did not otherwise meet expectations. Our share ownership is concentrated, and our officers, directors and principal stockholders acting collectively can exert significant control over matters requiring stockholder approval. Due to their combined stock holdings, our officers, directors and principal stockholders (stockholders holding greater than 5% of our common stock) acting collectively may have the ability to exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible to complete without the support of these stockholders. 75 Table of Contents Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and this fluctuation may cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. Factors contributing to these fluctuations include, among other items, the timing and enrollment rates of clinical trials for our product candidates, timing of milestone payments, the timing of significant purchases of MUSE by distributors, the timing of recognition of deferred revenue, and our need for clinical supplies. Thus, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not indicative of what we might expect in the future. As a result, in some future quarters our operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could result in a decline in the price of our stock. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. Sales of our stock by our executive officers and directors, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our stock. We have also registered all common stock that we may issue under our employee benefits plans. As a result, these shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions under the securities laws. Some of our executive officers have adopted trading plans under SEC Rule 10b5-1 to dispose of a portion of their stock. Any of our executive officers or directors may adopt such trading plans in the future. If any of these events cause a large number of our shares to be sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital. There may not be an active, liquid trading market for our common stock. There is no guarantee that an active trading market for our common stock will be maintained on the NASDAQ Global Market. Investors may not be able to sell their shares quickly or at the latest market price if trading in our stock is not active. Our charter documents and Delaware law could make an acquisition of our company difficult, even if an acquisition may benefit our stockholders. Our Board of Directors has adopted a Preferred Shares Rights Plan. The Preferred Shares Rights Plan has the effect of causing substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. The existence of the Preferred Shares Rights Plan could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable. Some provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Some of these provisions: •authorize the issuance of preferred stock by the Board of Directors without prior stockholder approval, commonly referred to as "blank check" preferred stock, with rights senior to those of common stock; •prohibit stockholder actions by written consent; •specify procedures for director nominations by stockholders and submission of other proposals for consideration at stockholder meetings; and •eliminate cumulative voting in the election of directors. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of Delaware General Corporate Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These and other provisions in our charter 76 Table of Contents documents could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions. Changes in financial accounting standards related to share-based payments are expected to continue to have a significant effect on our reported results. On January 1, 2006, we adopted the revised statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. SFAS 123R, Share-Based Payment, as codified in FASB ASC topic 718, Compensation—Stock Compensation, or ASC 718, which requires that we record compensation expense in the statement of operations for share-based payments, such as employee stock options, using the fair value method. The adoption of this new standard is expected to continue to have a significant effect on our reported earnings, although it will not affect our cash flows, and could adversely impact our ability to provide accurate guidance on our future reported financial results due to the variability of the factors used to estimate the values of share-based payments. If factors change and we employ different assumptions or different valuation methods in the application of SFAS 123R in future periods, the compensation expense that we record under SFAS 123R may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period, which could negatively affect our stock price. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ Global Market rules, are creating significant obligations and uncertainty of compliance for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and management time related to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors' review and audit of our internal control over financial reporting has required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. We expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. If we fail to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards, our reputation may be harmed and we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock. Risks Relating to our Transaction with Deerfield Management Company, L.P. and Affiliates Simultaneously with the sale of securities to funds affiliated with Deerfield or the Deerfield Affiliates, on April 15, 2008, we entered into the Funding and Royalty Agreement, or FARA, an Option and Put Agreement, or the OPA, and a Security Agreement with the Deerfield Sub, a newly incorporated subsidiary of Deerfield. The FARA and OPA were amended on March 16, 2009. We also entered into a Security Agreement with the shareholders of the Deerfield Sub. Under the terms of the FARA, the Deerfield Sub made $3.3 million payments to us in April, September and December 2008 and February, June and September 2009, constituting all of the required payments under the FARA. As part of the funding arrangement, we have agreed to continue our development of avanafil, our oral PDE5i for the Deerfield Sub. The FARA also provides that we will pay royalties on the net MUSE sales on a quarterly basis. Under the FARA, the royalty payments continue for 10 years. There are no 77 Table of Contents minimum royalties due; however, we have agreed to maintain the promotion of MUSE consistent with our prior efforts. The OPA provides that we may purchase all the outstanding shares of the Deerfield Sub, thus ending any further royalty payments. The OPA allows for the purchase of the shares of the Deerfield Sub by us for $23 million on a net basis through the first three years and $26 million net from the third to fourth year. The purchase amounts are net of the $2 million premium paid to Deerfield Affiliates for the call option. We have no ability to repurchase the shares after the fourth year. The OPA provides that Deerfield Affiliates can force a sale of all the shares of the Deerfield Sub to us beginning after the third year through the tenth year. The timing on the sale of the shares could be accelerated under certain conditions including a change-in-control, sale of MUSE or avanafil, sale of major assets and the sale of securities in a transaction or a series of related transactions by us that exceed 20% of our outstanding common stock at the date the OPA was signed if at the time of the sale our market capitalization is below $300 million, (each, a Major Transaction). Under these conditions, the cost of the shares of the Deerfield Sub would be $23 million before the third anniversary and $26 million from the third to tenth anniversary. The sale of the shares of the Deerfield Sub could also accelerate if our cash, cash equivalents and available for sale securities falls below $15 million or our market capitalization falls below $50 million. As security for the payment of royalties we have pledged certain unencumbered MUSE and avanafil assets to the Deerfield Sub. As security for the payment under the forced purchase of shares of the Deerfield Sub to us, we have pledged certain unencumbered MUSE and avanafil assets to Deerfield Affiliates. Under the FARA, the payment of the royalties may result in the MUSE operations being unprofitable. If we fail to exercise the option to repurchase the shares of the Deerfield Sub or if Deerfield Affiliates does not force us to purchase the shares of the Deerfield Sub, we will continue to pay royalties into 2018. We agreed to continue to promote MUSE at levels consistent with our current efforts. This requirement may force us to allocate resources that could be better utilized for other activities. If we decide to sell the MUSE business line or related assets, we will be forced to purchase the shares of the Deerfield Sub. The royalty payments and required commitment under the FARA may have an adverse effect on our cash flows, the market price of our common stock, our ability to raise money, financial position and results of operations. Under the OPA, the shareholders of the Deerfield Sub have agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities related to the operations of the Deerfield Sub, if any. Should we incur any such liabilities and the shareholders of the Deerfield Sub fail to pay for such liabilities as part of the indemnity, we would have to reallocate our resources to paying such liabilities and incur further expenses to enforce our right to indemnification under the OPA. Under the OPA, we only have four years to repurchase the shares of the Deerfield Sub. If we do not exercise this option within this period of time we will pay royalties through 2018. If exercised by us, the OPA will require us to pay $23 million or $26 million. The payment of these amounts may have an adverse effect on our cash balances, stock price and operations at the time of payment. Deerfield Affiliates has the ability to force us to buy the shares of the Deerfield Sub for $17 million, $23 million or $26 million. The payment of any one of these amounts would have a material adverse effect on our cash balance at the time. If our purchase of the Deerfield Sub shares is accelerated due to a Major Transaction, our ability to effectively negotiate and complete such a transaction could be adversely affected. The proceeds from such a transaction will also be reduced by the price paid for the Deerfield Sub shares. We entered into a Security Agreement with the Deerfield Sub to secure the royalty payments and with Deerfield Affiliates to secure the forced sale of the Deerfield Sub shares. The Security Agreements severely limit our ability to commercialize the assets covered by the Security Agreement outside the ordinary course of business including a sale of some or all of these assets. These assets would also not be available to serve as collateral for any future purpose. 78 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 