Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These are not the only risks and uncertainties facing VIVUS. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Risks Relating to our Product Development Efforts We face significant risks in our product development efforts. The process of developing new drugs and/or therapeutic products is inherently complex, time-consuming, expensive and uncertain. We must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether our development programs will result in products that will receive regulatory approval and achieve market acceptance. Investigational product candidates that appear to be promising at all stages of development may not reach the market for a number of reasons. Investigational product candidates may be found ineffective or may cause harmful side effects during clinical trials, may take longer to progress through clinical trials than had been anticipated, may not be able to achieve the pre-defined clinical endpoint due to statistical anomalies even though clinical benefit may have been achieved, may fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals, may prove impracticable to manufacture in commercial quantities at reasonable cost and with acceptable quality, or may fail to achieve market acceptance. Historically, our development efforts have been focused on products for sexual and postmenopausal health. While we have experience in managing Phase 1 through Phase 3 clinical trials in support of various indications, we do not have any experience in managing Phase 3 clinical trials for obesity or diabetes. There can be no assurance that we will be successful with the limited experience and resources we have available at the present time relating to obesity or diabetes. The results of pre-clinical studies and completed clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of future results, and our current investigational product candidates may not have favorable results in later studies or trials. Pre-clinical studies and Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials are not primarily designed to test the efficacy of an investigational product candidate in the general population, but rather to test initial safety, to study pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, to study limited efficacy in a selected disease population, and to identify and attempt to understand the investigational product candidate's side effects at various doses and dosing schedules. Success in pre-clinical studies or completed clinical trials does not ensure that later studies or trials, including continuing pre-clinical studies and large-scale clinical trials, will be successful nor does it necessarily predict future results. Favorable results in early studies or trials may not be repeated in later studies or trials, and investigational product candidates in later stage trials may fail to show acceptable safety and efficacy despite having progressed through initial-stage trials. In addition, the placebo rate in larger studies may be higher than expected. Our investigational product candidates, Qnexa, avanafil and Luramist, have not successfully completed all of the large, pivotal Phase 3 trials for efficacy and safety that are required for approval by the FDA and other worldwide regulatory authorities. Recently, we completed a 28-week Phase 3 study of Qnexa and its components in 756 patients. Pre-clinical data and the limited clinical results that we have obtained for these investigational product candidates may not predict results from studies in larger numbers of subjects in multiple sites drawn from more diverse populations treated for longer periods of time. The smaller and shorter clinical trials also may not predict the ability of these investigational products to achieve or sustain the desired effects in the broad intended population or to do so safely. We may also decide to not conduct additional Phase 2 studies prior to the initiation of 23 Table of Contents pivotal Phase 3 studies. In addition, we may elect to enter into pivotal Phase 3 studies with a new formulation, dosage, delivery system or choose to study different populations than had been used or studied in previous clinical trials. Qnexa is our proprietary capsule formulation investigational product candidate containing the active ingredients phentermine and topiramate. Phentermine was approved for the short-term treatment of obesity by the FDA in 1959. Topiramate is approved for seizures and migraine prevention. Published studies on topiramate reported that topiramate treatment produced weight loss. By combining the activity of each of these compounds, Qnexa attempts to simultaneously address excessive appetite and a high threshold for satiety, the two main mechanisms believed to impact eating behavior. Although we believe Qnexa affects the two major causes of overeating, excessive hunger and the inability to feel satisfied, we may not be correct in our assessment of the impact the combination of these two ingredients may have on weight loss or their mechanism of action. Earlier studies with Qnexa were completed using a twice-a-day dose. The twice-a-day dose and timing of the administration of the active ingredients was determined by the inventor through the treatment of patients in his private practice. We have completed the formulation development of Qnexa and have initiated Phase 3 studies of Qnexa with a once-a-day formulation. Our first completed Phase 3 study used the once-a-day formulation and was for 28 weeks in 756 obese patients. We have completed various pharmacokinetic studies of the once-a-day formulations to characterize the pharmacokinetic profile of the once-a-day formulation of Qnexa; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve any weight loss effects with the once-a-day formulation or that we will be able to duplicate the weight loss seen in the first Phase 3 obesity study. The FDA has also asked us to study the effects of a lower dose of Qnexa, which we are doing in the Phase 3 obesity trials. We are unable to predict the effect of the inclusion of a lower dose group in the Phase 3 obesity trials on the overall development program of Qnexa. We will be required to demonstrate through larger-scale clinical trials that our investigational product candidates are safe and effective for use in a broad population before we can seek regulatory approvals for their commercial sale. There is typically a high rate of attrition from the failure of investigational product candidates proceeding through clinical trials. To date, long-term safety and efficacy have not been demonstrated in clinical trials for any of our current investigational product candidates. If any of our investigational product candidates fails to demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy in any clinical trial, we will experience potentially significant delays in, or decide to abandon development of, that investigational product candidate. If we abandon or are delayed in our development efforts related to any of our investigational products, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to continue our operations and clinical studies at the current level or become profitable, our reputation in the industry and in the investment community would likely be significantly damaged, it may not be possible for us to complete financings, and our stock price would likely decrease significantly. If the results of current or future pre-clinical studies, clinical testing and/or clinical trials indicate that our proposed investigational product candidates are not safe or effective for human use, our business will suffer. Unfavorable results from ongoing pre-clinical studies, clinical testing and/or clinical trials could result in delays, modifications or abandonment of ongoing or future clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in late stage clinical trials, even after promising results in initial-stage trials. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a clinical trial to be delayed, repeated, modified or terminated. In addition, failure to design appropriate clinical trial protocols could result in the test or control group experiencing a disproportionate number of adverse events and could cause a clinical trial to be delayed, repeated, modified or terminated. 24 Table of Contents All of the investigational product candidates that we are currently developing require extensive pre-clinical and/or clinical testing before we can submit any application for regulatory approval. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our investigational product candidates, we must demonstrate with substantial evidence through pre-clinical testing and/or clinical trials that our investigational product candidates are safe and effective in humans. Conducting clinical trials is a complex, lengthy, expensive and uncertain process. Completion of clinical trials may take several years or more. Our ability to complete clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including, but not limited to: •inability to obtain or manufacture sufficient quantities of drugs for use in clinical trials; •failure to receive approval by the FDA of our clinical trial protocols; •changes in clinical trial protocols made by us or imposed by the FDA; •poor safety or effectiveness of our investigational product candidates; •slower than expected rate of and higher than expected cost of patient recruitment; •inability to adequately follow patients after treatment; •unforeseen safety issues; •government or regulatory delays; or •inability to raise the necessary cash to start or complete the trials. Many of these factors may also ultimately lead to denial of regulatory approval of our investigational product candidates. If we experience delays, suspensions or terminations in our clinical trials for a particular investigational product candidate, the commercial prospects for that investigational candidate will be harmed, and we may be unable to raise additional funds, or generate product revenues from that investigational candidate or revenues would be delayed. Prior association with fen-phen could lead to increased scrutiny of our investigational product candidate, Qnexa. One of the active ingredients in Qnexa, phentermine, had previously been used in combination with fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine. Phentermine is the most commonly prescribed anti-obesity product. As phentermine is an older drug, no new efficacy trials have been conducted, with the exception of several trials on the combination of phentermine and fenfluramine in the early and mid 1990s and the EQUATE study which contained two phentermine arms. The combination of fenfluramine or PONDIMIN, or fen, and phentermine, or phen, was known as fen-phen. Fenfluramine received FDA approval in 1973 for the short-term treatment of obesity. Together, phentermine and fenfluramine were used by doctors to treat obesity. The FDA never approved the fen-phen combination; however, since the FDA approved fenfluramine, doctors were able to prescribe it as needed. The use of these drugs together for treatment of obesity was considered an off-label and unapproved use. In 1992, a published study cited fen-phen as a more effective method than dieting or exercise in reducing the weight of the chronically obese. Neither combination, however, was ever tested for safety. By the summer of 1997, the Mayo Clinic reported 24 cases of heart valve disease in patients that had taken the fen-phen combination. The cluster of unusual cases of heart valve disease in fen-phen users suggested a co-relation between fen-phen use and heart valve disease. On July 8, 1997, the FDA issued a Public Health Advisory to report the Mayo findings. The FDA continued to receive additional reports of heart valve disease, including reports from patients who had taken only fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine. Further evaluations of patients taking fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine showed that approximately 30% had abnormal valve findings. This figure was much higher than expected for abnormal test results and 25 Table of Contents suggests fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine as the likely causes of Primary Pulmonary Hypertension, or PPH, and valvular heart disease. In September 1997, the FDA requested drug manufacturers to voluntarily withdraw fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine. At the same time, the FDA recommended that patients using either fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine stop taking them. The FDA did not, however, request the withdrawal of phentermine. Although studies to date have demonstrated that phentermine does not cause PPH and valvular heart disease, there can be no assurance that Qnexa will not have any significant cardiovascular or other detrimental side effects. Moreover, the adverse clinical history of fen-phen and dexfen-phen combinations for obesity may result in increased FDA regulatory scrutiny of the safety or the risk/benefit profile of Qnexa and may raise potential adverse publicity in the marketplace, which could affect clinical enrollment or ultimately market acceptance if Qnexa is approved for commercial sale. Adverse side effects associated with topiramate, an ingredient in Qnexa, could result in patient drop outs and increased scrutiny. Previously published studies suggest that the administration of topiramate alone, in conjunction with diet and a behavioral modification program, results in weight reduction in obese patients. The most prominent side effect seen in the published studies was paresthesia (tingling of the extremities), experienced by 42% to 59% of patients. Drop outs due to paresthesia were 5% or less. In the first completed Phase 3 obesity study, paresthesia was experienced in 20% of the patients on the full-dose of Qnexa. In the Phase 2 diabetes study, paresthesia was experienced by 17% of the patients. The other common adverse events reported in the published topiramate monotherapy studies were also central nervous system, or CNS, related including fatigue, difficulty with attention, memory and concentration, and depression. In our obesity and diabetes studies, these CNS-related side effects were also experienced, but the difference was not statistically significant when compared to placebo. The pharmaceutical company performing research of topiramate alone announced they had discontinued development of a time-release formulation due to side effects at high doses. The FDA has also recently issued an alert on the use of antiepileptic drugs and a potential risk of increased suicidal ideation. The FDA has requested that as part of our Phase 3 obesity trials for Qnexa, a standard analysis of patients' suicidal tendencies be performed. On July 10, 2008, the FDA held a Joint Meeting of the Peripheral and Central Nervous System Drugs Advisory Committee and the Psychopharmacologic Drugs Advisory Committee. The advisory committee and representatives from the Pediatric Advisory Committee, and the Drug Safety and Risk Management Advisory Committee considered the results of FDA's analysis of suicidality (both suicidal ideation and behavior) from placebo-controlled clinical studies of 11 antiepileptic drugs. One of the drugs included in the discussion was topiramate (marketed as TOPAMAX, Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc.). The FDA discussed with the committee, in light of the results, whether any additional actions are necessary. The committee recognized that there is an increased risk of suicidality and recommended to the FDA that additional information should be provided to patients regarding the risks and benefits of antiepileptic drugs; however, the committee strongly recommended against a Black Box warning to be applied to antiepileptic drugs. In December 2008, the FDA asked the manufacturers of the antiepileptic drugs included in the analysis to add warnings about suicidality to the labels and to issue a medication guide covering the results of the meta analysis. We anticipate that the label for Qnexa, if approved, will contain the similar warnings to those contained in the topiramate label. The preliminary experience from an observational registration study conducted in the United Kingdom on women with epilepsy who became pregnant, published in the July 22, 2008 edition of Neurology, stated that the major congenital malformations, or MCM, rate observed in the study among infants born to women who were taking topiramate and other antiepileptics during their pregnancy raised some concerns. The UK Epilepsy and Pregnancy Register is a voluntary registry in the United Kingdom that collects information in order to gather and publish information on the relative safety of 26 Table of Contents antiepileptic drugs in this population. In the study, 203 pregnancies were followed, of which 13 (9%) had an MCM on polytherapy and three (4.8%) had an MCM on topiramate monotherapy. The MCMs included oral clefts and hypospadias. It has been reported that prenatal exposure to certain antiepileptic drugs increases the risk of MCM from a background risk of between 1% and 2% to between 4% and 9%. Pregnant women or women who plan on becoming pregnant are not eligible to participate in the Qnexa clinical trials. Women are advised to use and agree to use two forms of birth control during the study. Subjects who become pregnant during the study period are required to immediately discontinue study medication. We are unable to predict the effect or impact of the use of Qnexa on study subjects who become pregnant or their fetuses. There are known adverse side effects to the individual use of topiramate and phentermine. Topiramate and phentermine are each approved for sale by the FDA and have been on the market for many years. Adverse events and side effects observed in pre-clinical and post-marketing studies are included in the full prescribing information or label for each drug. The label for TOPAMAX contains reports of side effects, warnings and precautions including metabolic acidosis, acute myopia and secondary angle closure glaucoma, decreased sweating and hyperthermia, cognitive-related dysfunction, psychiatric and behavioral disturbances including one completed suicide in a patient during a bipolar trial, somnolence and fatigue, sudden unexplained death in epileptics, kidney stones, paresthesia and various drug interactions. The label for ADIPEX, a popular branded form of phentermine, contains warnings and precautions including recommendation against coadministration of phentermine with other drugs for weight loss. Adverse side effects include, among other things, pulmonary hypertension, valvular heart disease, drug abuse and dependence, overstimulation, restlessness, dizziness, insomnia, euphoria, dysphoria, tremor, headache, dryness of the mouth, diarrhea, constipation, impotence and changes in libido. The warnings and precautions for both of these products are updated often. To date, the clinical results we have obtained do not necessarily predict that the results of further testing, including larger, late-stage controlled human clinical testing, will be successful. If our trials are not successful or are perceived as not successful by the FDA or physicians, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially harmed. Our investigational product candidate, Qnexa, is a combination of drugs approved individually by the FDA that are commercially available and marketed by other companies. As a result, our product may be subject to substitution and immediate competition. Each of the approved drugs that are combined to produce our investigational product candidate, Qnexa, will likely be commercially available at prices lower than the price at which we would seek to market our investigational product candidate. We cannot be sure that physicians will view Qnexa as sufficiently superior to a treatment regime of the individual active pharmaceutical ingredients as to justify the significantly higher cost we expect to seek for Qnexa, and they may prescribe the individual drugs already approved and marketed by other companies instead of our combination product. Even though our U.S. patent contains composition, product formulation and method-of-use claims that we believe protect Qnexa, that patent may be ineffective as a practical matter to protect against physicians prescribing the individual drugs marketed by other companies instead of our combination product. To the extent that the price of Qnexa is significantly higher than the prices of the individual components as marketed by other companies, physicians may have a greater incentive to write prescriptions for the individual components instead of for our combination product, and this may limit how we price or market Qnexa. Similar concerns could also limit the reimbursement amounts private health insurers or government agencies in the U.S. are prepared to pay for Qnexa, which could also limit market and patient acceptance of our product, and could negatively impact our revenues. A physician could seek to prescribe off-label generics in place of Qnexa. Off-label use occurs when a drug that is approved by the 27 Table of Contents FDA for one indication is legally prescribed by physicians for a different, unapproved indication. Topiramate, one of the ingredients in Qnexa, is not approved for obesity treatment. In many countries where we may plan to market Qnexa, including Europe and Canada, the pricing of prescription drugs is controlled by the government or regulatory agencies. Regulatory agencies in these countries could determine that the pricing for Qnexa should be based on prices for its active pharmaceutical ingredients when sold separately, rather than allowing us to market Qnexa at a premium as a new drug. We may choose to restrict distribution of Qnexa to specialty pharmacies after physicians register to ensure a safe and secure launch. Our success in distributing our product candidate in this manner could be limited which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flow. The FDA and other regulatory agencies will likely require more extensive or expensive trials for our combination investigational product candidate, Qnexa, than may be required for single agent pharmaceuticals. To obtain regulatory approval for Qnexa, we will be required to show that each active pharmaceutical ingredient in our investigational product candidate makes a contribution to the combined investigational product candidate's claimed effects and that the dosage of each component, including amount, frequency and duration, is such that the combination is safe and more effective than each of the components. As a result, we will be required to include in our clinical trials an evaluation of each component drug as well as for the component drug in combination. This would likely require us to conduct more extensive and more expensive clinical trials than would be the case for many single agent pharmaceuticals. The need to conduct such trials could make it more difficult and costly to obtain regulatory approval of Qnexa than of a new drug containing only a single active pharmaceutical ingredient. The OB-301, or EQUATE, trial was designed to meet the combination guidelines set by the FDA. The EQUATE study contained separate component arms as well as the combination. We believe the results of the EQUATE study meet FDA guidelines for combination therapy; however, there can be no assurance that we have satisfied the combination requirements or that further testing of the combination will not be required. The EQUATE study also contained a mid-dose of Qnexa containing 46 mg of topiramate CR and 7.5 mg of phentermine. The mid-dose is included in the OB-303 study. We may file for approval for the mid-dose in addition to the full-dose. We have not conducted any additional testing on the mid-dose. Further, the number of subjects on the mid-dose in the OB-303 may not be sufficient for approval. We have no assurance that the mid-dose of Qnexa will be approved as monotherapy or that additional pre-clinical and clinical testing may not be needed prior to approval. We are exposed to risks related to collaborative arrangements, licenses or strategic alliances. We have and will continue to in-license investigational product candidates from third parties. The United States rights to Evamist and Luramist were licensed from Acrux and its related affiliates. The rights to avanafil were licensed from Tanabe Seiyaku Co., Ltd., or Tanabe, in 2001. In October 2007, Tanabe and Mitsubishi Pharma Corporation completed their merger and announced their name change to Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, or Mitsubishi Tanabe. The rights to Evamist were sublicensed to K-V. In August 2008, we assigned all of our rights and obligations under the Evamist license agreement to K-V. These types of licensing agreements contain certain obligations. Failure to comply with the terms of the agreements could result in the early termination of these agreements. We believe we are in compliance with all the material terms of our current agreements; however, there can be no assurance that this compliance will continue or that the licensors would not have a differing interpretation of the material terms of the agreements. If the license agreements were terminated early or if the terms of the license were contested for any reason, it would have a material adverse impact on our ability to commercialize products subject to these agreements, our ability to raise funds to finance the company, our stock price and our overall financial condition. 28 Table of Contents VIVUS and Acrux Limited, or Acrux, are parties to the Testosterone Development and Commercialization Agreement, or the Testosterone Agreement, and the Estradiol Development and Commercialization Agreement, or the Evamist Agreement, each dated February 12, 2004, or collectively, the Acrux Agreements. The Acrux Agreements cover our investigational product candidate, Luramist, and our former investigational product candidate, Evamist, both of which were in-licensed from Acrux under the Acrux Agreements. We received a letter dated November 13, 2006 from legal counsel for Acrux containing various claims of breach under the Acrux Agreements. We responded that there is no merit to Acrux's claims and that we have meritorious defenses to such claims. Acrux has since approved the Company's assignment of the Company's rights and obligations under the Evamist Agreement to K-V as part of K-V's purchase of Evamist and released the Company from any claims or liabilities arising from the Evamist Agreement. On November 5, 2007, Acrux made a demand for arbitration under the Testosterone Agreement regarding its claims related to Luramist. Acrux's demand seeks a reversion of all rights assigned to VIVUS related to Luramist, monetary damages and the payment of a milestone payment for Luramist under the Testosterone Agreement and declaratory relief. We continue to believe that we are in compliance with all material aspects of the Testosterone Agreement and that we do not owe monetary damages or any milestone payment under the Testosterone Agreement. We also believe that we have valid counterclaims against Acrux, which have been asserted in the arbitration and seek the enforcement of our rights under the Testosterone Agreement. The arbitration hearing commenced on January 12, 2009 and concluded on January 23, 2009, with the final post-hearing briefs having been filed on February 27, 2009. Absent requests for additional briefing or appearances, the matter is fully briefed and submitted, and we anticipate that the arbitrators will issue their decision during the second quarter of 2009. In the event that Acrux should prevail in this matter, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flow. While we may be entitled to future milestone payments under existing contractual arrangements, we may not receive these payments. Certain of our contractual arrangements include future milestone payments to us based upon the other party achieving defined sales targets. Meeting those milestone targets is dependent on the performance of the other party to the contractual arrangement and we have little, or no, control over those outcomes. We have no assurance any of those milestone targets will be achieved and that the milestones will be paid to us. For example, on March 30, 2007, we entered into a definitive agreement with K-V to transfer the assets and grant a sublicense of our rights under our licensing agreement with Acrux related to Evamist, a metered dose transdermal spray for the treatment of menopause symptoms, to K-V. Under the terms of this agreement, we are also eligible to receive certain one-time payments of up to $30 million based on K-V achieving certain annual net sales thresholds for Evamist. In February 2009, K-V and certain of its subsidiaries announced a voluntary recall of most of its prescription products. Subsequent to the recall, K-V announced plans to reduce its workforce by 700 employees. In January 2009, K-V voluntarily suspended the manufacturing and shipping of all of its products. Evamist is not manufactured by K-V and was not subject to the recall. Given the uncertainties with K-V, it is difficult to determine the extent of the adverse impact on Evamist. Although we are entitled to additional milestone payments from future sales of Evamist by K-V, at the present time we do not anticipate receiving any additional milestones for the sales of Evamist. We are dependent upon collaborative arrangements and strategic alliances. We are, and in the future expect to be, dependent upon collaborative arrangements or strategic alliances to complete the development and commercialization of some of our investigational product candidates, particularly after the Phase 2 stage of clinical testing. These arrangements may place the 29 Table of Contents development of our investigational product candidates outside of our control, may require us to relinquish important rights, or may otherwise be on terms unfavorable to us. In October 2007, Tanabe and Mitsubishi Pharma Corporation completed their merger and announced their name change to Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, or Mitsubishi Tanabe. We currently have a collaboration agreement with Mitsubishi Tanabe and it is unclear at this time what effect, if any, the merger will have on our agreement with Mitsubishi Tanabe. There can be no guarantee that the merger of Tanabe and Mitsubishi will not have an adverse material effect on our agreement with Mitsubishi Tanabe, which in turn could lead to a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to locate and enter into favorable agreements with third parties, which could delay or impair our ability to develop and commercialize our investigational product candidates and could increase our costs of development and commercialization. Dependence on collaborative arrangements or strategic alliances will subject us to a number of risks, including the risk that: •we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators may devote to the investigational product candidates; •our collaborators may experience financial difficulties; •we may be required to relinquish important rights such as marketing and distribution rights; •business combinations or significant changes in a collaborator's business strategy may also adversely affect a collaborator's willingness or ability to complete its obligations under any arrangement; •legal disputes or disagreements with our collaborative partners; •a collaborator could independently move forward with a competing investigational product candidate developed either independently or in collaboration with others, including our competitors; and •collaborative arrangements are often terminated or allowed to expire, which would delay the development and may increase the cost of developing our investigational product candidates. We face significant governmental regulation during our product development activities. The research, testing, manufacturing, selling and marketing of investigational product candidates are subject to extensive regulations by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and other countries. We cannot predict with certainty if or when we might submit for regulatory review those investigational product candidates currently under development. The FDA can suspend or modify clinical studies at any time if the agency believes that the subjects participating in such studies are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. Regulatory approval is never guaranteed, and the approval process typically takes several years and is extremely expensive. The FDA has substantial discretion in the drug approval process. Despite the time and expense involved, failure can occur at any stage. In July 2008, an FDA advisory panel discussed the role of cardiovascular outcomes assessment in the pre-approval and post-approval settings for drugs and biologics developed for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus. The panel recommended that sponsors conduct a long-term cardiovascular trial or to provide other equivalent evidence to rule out an unacceptable cardiovascular risk. The FDA has since published a guidance document in December 2008 for the evaluation of cardiovascular risk in new antidiabetic therapies specifically for the treatment of Type II diabetes. In general, the FDA recommends that sponsors should compare the incidence of important cardiovascular events occurring with the investigational agent to the incidence of the same type of events with the control group to 30 Table of Contents estimate the relative risk of the investigational agent. This may be accomplished by either conducting an integrated analysis (meta-analysis) of the Phase 2 and Phase 3 studies or conduct a single, large, long-term cardiovascular safety study. A long-term cardiovascular study would take several years to complete and would require resources that may be beyond our current capabilities. Qnexa, in development for obesity and diabetes, may be subject to this recommendation. If we are required to complete a long-term cardiovascular study for Qnexa prior to an NDA submission, the ultimate approval may be delayed for several years and the overall cost of the program will increase. In June 2007, an FDA advisory panel recommended against approval of rimonabant, an oral obesity treatment targeting the CB1 receptor system being developed by another company. Rimonabant is a centrally acting drug that reduces patients' desire to eat. The advisory panel expressed concerns about the impact of the drug on depressed patients and also expressed concerns about patients having thoughts about suicide. In addition, concerns about rimonabant's mechanism of action and interference with the CB1 receptor pathway were also voiced. The company withdrew its NDA for rimonabant shortly after the advisory panel meeting. Although the active ingredients in Qnexa have been previously approved by FDA at higher doses for other indications, it is a centrally acting drug that may increase the risk of psychiatric side effects such as depression and/or suicidal ideation. In December 2004, an FDA advisory panel recommended against approval of a testosterone patch under development by another company to address female sexual dysfunction, specifically hypoactive sexual desire disorder. The FDA indicated that more safety data would be required before it would be in a position to recommend approval. Subsequently, this company withdrew its NDA. We are developing an investigational transdermal testosterone product candidate, Luramist, which is designed to address hypoactive sexual desire disorder. We recently reached agreement with the FDA regarding a long-term cardiovascular event study that we must complete prior to submitting Luramist for approval. We estimate we will have to enroll a minimum of 5,200 patients, over the age of 50, with one cardiovascular risk factor. The average minimum exposure to Luramist in the safety study is 12 months. The safety study is an events-driven study and patients will be followed until the minimum number of pre-defined cardiovascular events has occurred. Despite the agreement with the FDA on the size and scope of the safety study, we may be required to undertake additional or expanded clinical trials, which could be expensive and the cause of significant delays in our ability to submit our investigational product candidate to the FDA for consideration. In the end, we may be unsuccessful in obtaining FDA approval of Luramist or any of our investigational product candidates. We are not permitted to market any of our investigational product candidates in the United States until we receive approval from the FDA. As a consequence, any failure to obtain or delay in obtaining FDA approval for our investigational product candidates would delay or prevent our ability to generate revenue from our investigational product candidates, which would adversely affect our financial results and our business. Our applications for regulatory approval could be delayed or denied due to problems with studies conducted before we licensed some of our investigational product candidates from third parties. We currently license some of our investigational product candidates from third parties. Our present development programs involving these investigational product candidates rely in part upon previous development work conducted by third parties over whom we had no control and before we licensed the investigational product candidates. In order to receive regulatory approval of an investigational product candidate, we must present to the FDA for its review all relevant data and information obtained during research and development, including research conducted prior to our license of the investigational product candidate. Although we are not currently aware of any such problems, any problems that emerge with research and testing conducted prior to our licensing an investigational product candidate may affect future results or our ability to document prior research and to conduct clinical trials, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval for our investigational product candidates. 31 Table of Contents Following regulatory approval of any investigational product candidates, we would be subject to ongoing regulatory obligations and restrictions, which may result in significant expense and limit our ability to commercialize our potential drugs. If one of our investigational product candidates is approved by the FDA or by another regulatory authority for a territory outside of the United States, we will be held to extensive regulatory requirements over product manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, distribution, advertising, promotion and record keeping. Regulatory approvals may also be subject to significant limitations on the indicated uses or marketing of the investigational product candidates or who we may distribute to. Potentially costly post-marketing clinical studies may be required as a condition of approval to further substantiate safety or efficacy, or to investigate specific issues of interest to the regulatory authority. For example, the safety study for Luramist will require us to follow patients for five years in order to assess potential cardiovascular risks and breast cancer. While we may submit an NDA for Luramist after patients have had an average exposure of 12 months and a minimum number of pre-defined cardiovascular incidences have occurred, there can be no assurance that Luramist will be approved or, if approved, that safety issues would not arise subsequent to such approval. Previously unknown problems with the investigational product candidate, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in restrictions on the marketing of the drug, and could lead to the withdrawal of the drug from the market. In addition, the law or regulatory policies governing pharmaceuticals may change. New statutory requirements may be enacted or additional regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our investigational product candidates. CROs and their vendors or suppliers may also face changes in regulatory requirements from governmental agencies in the U.S. and other countries. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature, extent or effects of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the U.S. or elsewhere. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we might not be permitted to market our products and our business could suffer. We rely on third parties to conduct pre-clinical and clinical trials and studies for our investigational product candidates in development and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily. We do not have the ability to conduct pre-clinical or clinical studies for our investigational product candidates without the assistance of third parties who conduct the studies on our behalf. These third parties are usually toxicology facilities, safety monitoring companies and clinical research organizations, or CROs, that have significant resources and experience in the conduct of pre-clinical and clinical studies. The toxicology facilities conduct the pre-clinical safety studies as well as all associated tasks connected with these studies. Safety monitoring companies collect reported adverse events that are reported from subjects during clinical trials. The CROs typically perform patient recruitment, project management, data management, statistical analysis, and other reporting functions. We intend to use several different toxicology facilities and CROs for all of our pre-clinical and clinical studies. We have contracted with a safety monitoring company that we intend to use for all of our clinical trials. If these third party toxicology facilities, the safety monitoring company or CROs do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected timelines, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for our investigational product candidates on a timely basis, if at all, and we may not be able to successfully commercialize these investigational product candidates. If these third party toxicology facilities, the safety monitoring company or CROs do not perform satisfactorily, we may not be able to locate acceptable replacements or enter into favorable agreements with them, if at all. 32 Table of Contents We rely on third parties to manufacture sufficient quantities of compounds for use in our pre-clinical and clinical trials and future commercial operations and an interruption to this service may harm our business. We do not have the ability to manufacture the materials we use in our pre-clinical and clinical trials and future commercial operations. Rather, we rely on various third parties to manufacture these materials and there may be long lead times to obtain materials. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, qualify and obtain prior regulatory approval for additional sources of clinical materials. If interruptions in this supply occur for any reason, including a decision by the third parties to discontinue manufacturing, technical difficulties, labor disputes or a failure of the third parties to follow regulations, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for our investigational product candidates and may not be able to successfully commercialize these investigational product candidates. We have completed the development of a once-a-day formulation of Qnexa. The contract manufacturer we have selected to develop a once-a-day formulation is supplying the entire product for the Phase 3 program. In addition, this contract manufacturer is our sole-source of clinical supplies for Qnexa. Stability data of the once-a-day capsule is limited. A failure on the stability or manufacturability of our once-a-day formulation or the inability of this contract manufacturer or any of our suppliers involved in the manufacturing of the Phase 3 supplies to carry out its contractual duties or meet expected timelines would delay our Qnexa clinical studies, which could have a material adverse impact on our development plan, market price of our common stock and financial condition. Risks Relating to our Operations If we, or our suppliers, fail to comply with FDA and other government regulations relating to our manufacturing operations, we may be prevented from manufacturing our products or may be required to undertake significant expenditures to become compliant with regulations. After regulatory approval for a product is obtained, the product is subject to continual regulatory review. Manufacturing, labeling and promotional activities are continually regulated by the FDA and equivalent foreign regulatory agencies. For example, our third party manufacturers are required to maintain satisfactory compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP. If these manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, our ability to manufacture, market and distribute our products may be adversely affected. In addition, the FDA could issue warning letters or could require the seizure or recall of products. The FDA could also impose civil penalties or require the closure of our manufacturing facility until cGMP compliance is achieved. We obtain the necessary raw materials and components for the manufacture of MUSE as well as certain services, such as testing and sterilization, from third parties. We currently contract with suppliers and service providers, including foreign manufacturers. We and these suppliers and service providers are required to follow cGMP requirements and are subject to routine and unannounced inspections by the FDA and by state and foreign regulatory agencies for compliance with cGMP requirements and other applicable regulations. Upon inspection of these facilities, the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may find the manufacturing process or facilities are not in compliance with cGMP requirements and other regulations. Non-conformance issues may occur in our manufacturing operations or in the operations of our vendors and suppliers, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to manufacture our products and investigational product candidates. For example, in late March 2008, we identified a non-conformance issue in one container of a raw material for MUSE, as supplied by the raw material vendor. All MUSE units manufactured from this container were within the VIVUS held inventory, were separated from our other inventory and were subsequently destroyed. As required, we appropriately notified the FDA of this raw material incident. In a timely manner, we completed an investigation of this non-conformance which concluded that the impact of this raw material non-conformance was limited to those units of MUSE produced from the one subject container. All of 33 Table of Contents these units had already been identified and separated out of our normal inventory. We also shared our findings and actions directly with the FDA. Although we believe this incident to be complete from a product impact point of view, there can be no assurance that any further raw material non-conformance would not have a much greater negative impact to production, inventory supply, market demand supply, or even require a recall of previously distributed MUSE units. Additionally, as the financial impact of this non-conformance has not yet been negotiated with the raw material vendor, there can be no assurance that such negotiations would not avert raw material supply problems, which could then lead to a long-term interruption in our ability to manufacture MUSE and an adverse impact on the sales of MUSE and the resultant amounts collected or to be collected from the sales of MUSE. In addition, the costs associated with the interruption in supply could be great and our future financial results could be adversely affected. Failure to achieve satisfactory cGMP compliance as confirmed by routine and unannounced inspections could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to manufacture and distribute our commercial products and, in the most serious case, result in the issuance of a regulatory warning letter or seizure or recall of products, injunction and/or civil penalties or closure of our manufacturing facility until cGMP compliance is achieved. If we fail to comply with healthcare regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. As a manufacturer of pharmaceuticals, even though we do not and will not control referrals of healthcare services or bill directly to Medicare, Medicaid or other third party payors, certain federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud, abuse and patients' rights are and will be applicable to our business. We could be subject to healthcare fraud, abuse and patient privacy regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The regulations that may affect our ability to operate include, but are not limited to: •the federal healthcare program Anti-Kickback Law, which prohibits, among other things, persons from soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce either the referral of an individual, for an item or service or the purchasing or ordering of a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; •federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third party payors that are false or fraudulent, and which may apply to entities like us which provide coding and billing advice to customers or promoting our commercial products for "off-label" use; •the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which prohibits executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters and which also imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; and •state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third party payor, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, 34 Table of Contents damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Although compliance programs can mitigate the risk of investigation and prosecution for violations of these laws, the risks cannot be entirely eliminated. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable federal and state privacy, security and fraud laws may prove costly. Our marketing activities for our products are subject to continued governmental regulation. After product approval by the FDA, our marketing activities will be subject to FDA and other regulatory review. If products are marketed in contradiction with FDA mandates, the FDA may issue warning letters that require specific remedial measures to be taken, as well as an immediate cessation of the impermissible conduct resulting in adverse publicity. The FDA may also order that all future promotional materials receive prior agency review and approval before use. For example, the FDA issued a warning letter to us in May 2004 in which the FDA objected to a specific television commercial as well as information contained on our website promoting MUSE, our FDA approved product for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. The letter indicated that we had failed to disclose or had minimized certain risks associated with MUSE. Through discussions with the FDA, we agreed to produce and have released a television commercial that we believe corrected the prior message and addressed the FDA's concerns. We incurred costs in providing this corrective information, which would have otherwise been utilized by us in a different manner. In March 2005, we received a letter from the FDA indicating that the matter had been closed. We must continue to monitor the use of our approved products and may be required to complete post-approval studies mandated by the FDA. Even if we receive regulatory approval of our investigational product candidates, such approval may involve limitations on the indicated uses or marketing claims we may make for our products and distribution channels. For example, the safety study for Luramist requires that we follow subjects for five years in total to detect cardiovascular events and breast cancer. Further, later discovery of previously unknown problems for Luramist or any of our investigational product candidates could result in additional regulatory restrictions, including withdrawal of products. The FDA may also require us to commit to perform lengthy post-approval studies, for which we would have to expend significant additional resources, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and stock price. Failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements can result in, among other things, civil penalties, suspensions of regulatory approvals, product recalls, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. The restriction, suspension or revocation of regulatory approvals or any other failure to comply with regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We depend exclusively on third party distributors outside of the United States and we have very limited control over their activities. We entered into an agreement granting Meda exclusive marketing and distribution rights for MUSE in member states of the European Union. Meda currently sells MUSE in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Sweden, Norway, Germany, Switzerland, Denmark, Finland, France and the Netherlands. This agreement does not have minimum purchase commitments and we are entirely dependent on Meda's efforts to distribute and sell MUSE effectively in all these markets. There can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful or that Meda will continue to support MUSE. We entered into an agreement granting Paladin Labs, Inc. exclusive marketing and distribution rights for MUSE in Canada. This agreement does not have minimum purchase commitments and we are entirely dependent on Paladin Labs' efforts to distribute and sell our product effectively in Canada. There can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful or that Paladin Labs will continue to support the product. 35 Table of Contents Sales of our current and any future products are subject to continued governmental regulation, as well as our ability to accurately forecast demand and our ability to produce sufficient quantities to meet demand. Sales of our products both inside and outside the United States will be subject to regulatory requirements governing marketing approval. These requirements vary widely from country to country and could delay the introduction of our proposed products in those countries. After the FDA and international regulatory authorities approve a product, we must manufacture sufficient volumes to meet market demand. This is a process that requires accurate forecasting of market demand. There is no guarantee that there will be market demand for any future products or that we will be able to successfully manufacture or adequately support sales of any future products. We have limited sales and marketing capabilities in the United States. We support MUSE sales in the United States through a small direct sales force targeting major accounts. Telephone marketers also focus on urologists who prescribe MUSE. Physician and patient information/help telephone lines are available to answer additional questions that may arise after reading the product labeling or after actual use of the product. There can be no assurance that our MUSE sales programs will effectively maintain or potentially increase current sales levels. There can be no assurance that demand for MUSE will continue or that we will be able to adequately support sales of MUSE in the United States in the future. If we are unable to establish capabilities to sell, market and distribute our investigational product candidates, either by developing our own capabilities or entering into agreements with others, we will not be able to successfully launch our investigational product candidates upon FDA approval. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to hire the qualified sales and marketing personnel we need. We may not be able to enter into any marketing or distribution agreements with third party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. In that event, we will not be able to generate significant revenues. We have little or no control over our wholesalers' buying patterns, which may impact future revenues, returns and excess inventory. For domestic sales we sell our product primarily to major wholesalers located in the United States. As a result, most of our revenues are derived from the three major wholesalers. We rely solely on our wholesaler customers to effect the distribution allocation of our product. There can be no assurance that these customers will adequately manage their local and regional inventories to avoid outages, build-ups or result in excessive returns for expiration. We do not control or significantly influence the purchasing patterns of wholesale customers. These are highly sophisticated customers that purchase products in a manner consistent with their industry practices and perceived business interests. Our sales are subject to the purchasing requirements of our major customers, which presumably are based upon projected volume levels. Purchases by any customer, during any period may be above or below the actual prescription volumes of our product during the same period, resulting in increases or decreases in inventory existing in the distribution channel. Although the demand for MUSE has stabilized, we are not able to anticipate if one of our larger wholesalers will continue their historical pattern of making purchases in the fourth quarter that exceed expected quarterly demands. If that wholesaler does not repeat this pattern of purchasing quantities of MUSE that exceed quarterly demands, revenues from the sale of MUSE in 2009 may be lower as compared to 2008. 36 Table of Contents The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and we may be unable to compete successfully against new entrants or established companies. Competition in the pharmaceutical and medical products industries is intense and is characterized by costly and extensive research efforts and rapid technological progress. We are aware of several pharmaceutical companies also actively engaged in the development of therapies for the treatment of obesity, diabetes and sexual health. These companies have substantially greater research and development capabilities as well as substantially greater marketing, financial and human resources than we do. In addition, many of these companies have significantly greater experience than us in undertaking pre-clinical testing, human clinical trials and other regulatory approval procedures. Our competitors may develop technologies and products that are more effective than those we are currently marketing or researching and developing. Such developments could render our products or our investigational product candidates less competitive or possibly obsolete. We are also competing with respect to marketing capabilities and manufacturing efficiency, areas in which we have limited experience. Mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures and similar events may also significantly change the competition. Current approved anti-obesity drugs include Xenical (orlistat), marketed by Roche, and Meridia (sibutramine), marketed by Abbott Labs. Orlistat works by inhibiting lipase, thus preventing digestion and absorption of dietary fat in the gastrointestinal tract. There are several drugs in development for obesity including product candidates in Phase 3 clinical trials being developed by Arena Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Novo Nordisk A/S, Takeda Pharmaceutical Company and Orexigen Therapeutics, Inc., and approximately 20 product candidates in Phase 2 clinical trials by companies including Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Neurosearch A/S and GlaxoSmithKline, among others. All of these drugs are or will be marketed by pharmaceutical companies with substantially greater resources than us. In addition, a number of generic pharmaceutical products are prescribed for obesity, including phentermine, phendimetrazine, mazindol, benzphetamine and diethylpropion. Some of these generic drugs, and others, are prescribed in combinations that have shown some level of efficacy. These products are sold at much lower prices than we intend to charge for our investigational product candidate, Qnexa, if approved. The availability of a large number of branded prescription products, generic products and over-the-counter products could limit the demand for, and the price we are able to charge for, our obesity investigational product candidate. In October 2008, Sanofi-Aventis announced that it halted sales of its weight loss drug, Acomplia, in the wake of a recommendation by a European regulatory panel that the product be pulled off the market over safety concerns. The company has also halted all human trials of the Acomplia obesity medicine after health authorities in a few countries requested local tests be stopped. Significant competitive therapies exist for MUSE and avanafil in the form of oral medications marketed by Pfizer, Inc. under the name Viagra®, Cialis® marketed by Eli Lilly and Company, and Levitra®, which is co-marketed by GlaxoSmithKline plc and Schering-Plough Corporation in the United States. Other treatments for erectile dysfunction, or ED, exist, such as needle injection therapies, vacuum constriction devices and penile implants, and the manufacturers of these products will most likely continue to develop or improve these therapies. In November 2007, NexMed, Inc., or NexMed, announced that the NDA filed for its ED product, Vitaros®, a topically applied alprostadil cream, was accepted for review by the FDA. In February 2009, NexMed announced that they had sold the U.S. rights to Vitaros to Warner Chilcott Company, Inc. (a subsidiary of Warner Chilcott, Ltd., NASDAQ:WCRX), or Warner. Under the reported terms of the agreement, NexMed received an initial, up-front payment of $2.5 million and is eligible to receive an additional payment of $2.5 million upon Warner's receipt of FDA approval of the NDA. If the NDA for the NexMed product is approved 37 Table of Contents and Warner is successful in commercializing this product, the sales of MUSE will decline, which will have an adverse effect on the results of our operations and cash flows from sales of MUSE. Two companies are developing products that could compete with our investigational product candidates for the treatment of FSD. The Proctor & Gamble Company has been developing Intrinsa, a testosterone patch for the treatment of HSDD, but announced in December 2008 that they will halt research and consider divestiture of their four key pharmaceutical brands, including Intrinsa. BioSante Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is developing forms of testosterone gels for HSDD. None of these investigational products have been approved by the FDA. In July 2006, the European Medicines Agency granted marketing authorization of Intrinsa for the treatment of HSDD in bilaterally oophorectomized and hysterectomized women and in February 2007, Intrinsa was launched in France and Germany. In March 2007, Intrinsa became available through the National Health Service in the United Kingdom. New developments, including the development of other drug technologies and methods of preventing the incidence of disease, occur in the pharmaceutical and medical technology industries at a rapid pace. These developments may render our investigational product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. Compared to us, many of our potential competitors have substantially greater: •research and development resources, including personnel and technology; •regulatory experience; •drug development and clinical trial experience; •experience and expertise in exploitation of intellectual property rights; and •access to strategic partners and capital resources. As a result of these factors, our competitors may obtain regulatory approval of their products more rapidly than we or may obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limit our ability to develop or commercialize our investigational product candidates. If our raw material supplier fails to supply us with the Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients for our products and investigational product candidates, for which availability is limited, we may experience delays in our product development and commercialization. We are required to receive regulatory approval for suppliers. We obtained our supply of alprostadil from two approved sources, NeraPharm, s.r.o., in the Czech Republic and Chinoin Pharmaceutical and Chemical Works Private Co., Ltd., in Hungary. Currently, we only have a manufacturing agreement with Chinoin to produce additional quantities of alprostadil for us. Furthermore, our current supply of alprostadil is subject to periodic re-testing to ensure it continues to meet specifications. There can be no guarantees that our existing inventory of alprostadil will pass these re-testing procedures and continue to be usable material. There is a long lead-time for manufacturing alprostadil. A shortage in supply of alprostadil to be used in the manufacture of MUSE would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we currently do not have supply agreements in place for topiramate or phentermine. There can be no guarantees that we will be able to enter into such agreements under reasonable terms, if at all. We cannot guarantee that should we be successful in entering into such agreements we will be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for these suppliers. 38 Table of Contents We outsource several key parts of our operations and any interruption in the services provided by third parties could harm our business. Under our outsourcing agreement with Cardinal Health, Inc. related to MUSE, Cardinal Health warehouses our finished goods for United States distribution; takes customer orders; picks, packs and ships our products; invoices customers; and collects related receivables. As a result of this distribution agreement, we are heavily dependent on Cardinal Health's efforts to fulfill orders and warehouse our products effectively in the United States. There can be no assurance that such efforts will continue to be successful. Under our testing agreement, Gibraltar Laboratories performs sterility testing on finished product manufactured by us to ensure that it complies with product specifications. Gibraltar Laboratories also performs microbial testing on water and compressed gases used in the manufacturing process and microbial testing on environmental samples to ensure that the manufacturing environment meets appropriate cGMP regulations and cleanliness standards. As a result of this testing agreement, we are dependent on Gibraltar Laboratories to perform testing and issue reports on finished product and the manufacturing environment in a manner that meets cGMP regulations. We have an agreement with WRB Communications to handle patient and healthcare professional hotlines to answer questions and inquiries about MUSE. Calls to these hotlines may include complaints about our products due to efficacy or quality, as well as the reporting of adverse events. As a result of this agreement, we are dependent on WRB Communications to effectively handle these calls and inquiries. There can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful. We entered into a distribution agreement with Integrated Commercialization Services, or ICS, a subsidiary of AmerisourceBergen Corporation. ICS provides direct-to-physician distribution of product samples in support of United States marketing and sales efforts. As a result of this distribution agreement, we are dependent on ICS's efforts to distribute product samples effectively. We rely on two companies, E-Beam Services, Inc., or E-Beam, and Beam One, LLC, or Beam One, for the sterilization of MUSE. Although both companies are approved for the sterilization of MUSE, E- Beam is not currently an operational facility. If E-Beam is unable to become operational or interruptions in MUSE sterilization services occur for any reason, including a decision by E-Beam or Beam One to discontinue providing these services, political unrest, labor disputes or a failure of E-Beam or Beam One to follow regulations, the commercial marketing of MUSE and the development of other potential products could be prevented or delayed. An extended interruption in sterilization services would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently depend on a single source for the supply of alprostadil and an interruption to this supply could harm our business. We rely on a single manufacturing company, Chinoin Pharmaceutical and Chemical Works Private Co., Ltd., in Hungary, or Chinoin, for our supply of alprostadil. We currently have a written manufacturing agreement with Chinoin to supply alprostadil through 2011. There is no assurance that we will be able to re-establish a manufacturing agreement with NeraPharm, s.r.o., in the Czech Republic, or NeraPharm, an alternative supplier from whom we previously purchased alprostadil, or that we will be able to identify and qualify additional sources of alprostadil. We are required to receive FDA approval for new suppliers. Until we secure a new manufacturing agreement with NeraPharm or qualify additional sources of alprostadil, we are entirely dependent upon Chinoin. If interruptions in this supply occur for any reason, including a decision by Chinoin to discontinue manufacturing, labor disputes or a failure of Chinoin to follow regulations, the manufacture and marketing of MUSE and other potential products could be delayed or prevented. An extended interruption in the supply of 39 Table of Contents alprostadil could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We currently depend on a single source for the supply of plastic applicator components for MUSE and an interruption to this supply source could harm our business. We rely on a single injection molding company, Medegen Medical Products, LLC, or Medegen, for our supply of plastic applicator components. In turn, Medegen obtains its supply of resin, a key ingredient of the applicator, from a single source, Flint Hills Resources. Orders to Medegen are made on a periodic basis with purchase orders. We do not have a written agreement with Medegen for the supply of the plastic applicator components. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain components from Medegen or to identify and qualify additional sources of components or that Medegen will be able to identify and qualify additional sources of resin. We are required to receive FDA approval for new suppliers before we can use a new supplier. Until we secure and qualify additional sources of plastic components, we are entirely dependent upon Medegen. If interruptions in this supply occur for any reason, including a decision by Medegen to discontinue manufacturing, labor disputes, a failure of Medegen to follow regulations or the inability of Medegen to secure a new source of resin, the manufacture and marketing of MUSE and other potential products could be delayed or prevented. An extended interruption in the supply of plastic components could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have been notified by Medegen that the Flint Hills Resources facility in Texas will discontinue manufacturing the resin required for MUSE plastic components in early 2009. The Flint Hills Resources facility in Texas has been the single source used by Medegen for the MUSE plastic components. Medegen has some inventory of resin from the Flint Hills Texas facility. We are in the process of securing plastic components to be made by Medegen using some of their current inventory of this resin, and in a quantity to support MUSE production requirements through the fourth quarter of 2009. There can be no assurance that Medegen will be able to identify and qualify additional sources of resin. Medegen has not manufactured two of the plastic components since 1998 and there is no assurance the manufacturing molds will pass inspection and be approved for future use. The inability to utilize these molds and the inability of Medegen to secure an alternative resin supplier would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently depend on a single source for the supply of laminated foil components for MUSE and an interruption to this supply source could harm our business. We rely on a single lamination company, Glenroy, Inc., or Glenroy, for our supply of laminated foil. In turn, Glenroy obtains its supply of resin, a key ingredient of the laminated foil, from a single source, Flint Hills Resources in Texas. Orders to Glenroy are made on a periodic basis with purchase orders. We do not have a written agreement with Glenroy for the supply of the laminated foil. If we are unable to obtain foil from Glenroy for any reason, or if we are unable to identify and qualify additional sources of foil, or additional foil produced using a new resin, we could experience interruptions in supply, which would harm our business. We are required to receive FDA approval for new suppliers. Until we secure and qualify additional sources of laminated foil, we are entirely dependent upon Glenroy. If interruptions in this supply occur for any reason, including a decision by Glenroy to discontinue manufacturing, labor disputes, a failure of Glenroy to follow regulations or the inability of Gilroy to secure an alternative resin supplier, the manufacture and marketing of MUSE and other potential products could be delayed or prevented. An extended interruption in the supply of laminated foil could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have been notified by Glenroy that the Flint Hills Resources facility located in Texas will discontinue manufacturing the resin required for laminated foil in early 2009. The Flint Hills Resources 40 Table of Contents Texas facility has been the single source used by Glenroy for the MUSE laminated foil. Glenroy has some inventory of resin from the Flint Hills Texas facility. We are in the process of securing laminated foil made using the Glenroy current resin inventory to support MUSE production requirements through the fourth quarter of 2009. There can be no assurance that Glenroy will be able to identify and qualify additional sources of resin. Our inability to secure a qualified source for additional laminated foil and/or Glenroy's inability to secure the necessary resin would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Currently there is a global shortage of Acetonitrile, a solvent which is required in the testing and verification of MUSE, and an interruption to this supply could harm our business. We have been notified by several of our laboratory supply vendors of a global shortage of Acetonitrile, a solvent which is required in the testing and verification of MUSE. We have secured an adequate supply of Acetonitrile to support manufacturing through the fourth quarter of 2009. Our inability to secure additional Acetonitrile would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. All of our manufacturing operations are currently conducted at a single location, and a prolonged interruption to our manufacturing operations could harm our business. We own two buildings with a total combined 90,000 square feet in Lakewood, New Jersey. This facility is used for our MUSE manufacturing operation, which includes formulation, filling, packaging, analytical laboratories, storage, distribution and administrative offices, although one of the buildings is used for warehousing component parts. The FDA and the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency, the regulatory authority in the United Kingdom, authorized us to begin commercial production and shipment of MUSE from this facility in June and March 1998, respectively. MUSE is manufactured in this facility and we have no plans to construct another manufacturing site. Since MUSE is produced with custom-made equipment under specific manufacturing conditions, the inability of our manufacturing facility to produce MUSE for whatever reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon a single approved therapeutic approach to treat erectile dysfunction. MUSE relies on a single approved therapeutic approach to treat erectile dysfunction, a transurethral system. The existence of side effects or dissatisfaction with this product may impact a patient's decision to use or continue to use, or a physician's decision to recommend, this therapeutic approach as a therapy for the treatment of erectile dysfunction, thereby affecting the commercial viability of MUSE. In addition, competitive products, technological changes or medical advancements could further diminish or eliminate the commercial viability of our product, the results of which could have a material effect on our business operations and results. If we fail to retain our key personnel and hire, train and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to compete effectively, which could result in reduced revenues. Our success is highly dependent upon the skills of a limited number of key management personnel. To reach our business objectives, we will need to retain and hire qualified personnel in the areas of manufacturing, sales and marketing, research and development, regulatory affairs, clinical trial management and pre-clinical testing. There can be no assurance that we will be able to hire or retain such personnel, as we must compete with other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other agencies. The loss of any of our key personnel or the failure to attract or retain necessary new employees could have an adverse effect on our research, product development and business operations. 41 Table of Contents Allegations of discrimination, regardless of merit, could negatively affect our operations by causing us to allocate additional monetary and personnel resources to these issues. In January 2009, a former employee filed a U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Claim. The Notice of Charge of Discrimination was vague as to the nature and scope of the claim, merely indicating that sex discrimination and retaliation under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act is alleged. Separately, we also received a letter from a former employee claiming sexual harassment, age discrimination and other charges. We have fully investigated the charges by both former employees and we believe that there is no merit to these charges and that we have meritorious defenses to such charges. Although we believe the employees have no claim to additional compensation, we may be required to allocate additional monetary and personnel resources to defend ourselves against these allegations. We are subject to additional risks associated with our international operations. MUSE is currently marketed internationally. Changes in overseas economic and political conditions, cultural terrorism, currency exchange rates, foreign tax laws or tariffs or other trade regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The international nature of our business is also expected to subject us and our representatives, agents and distributors to laws and regulations of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate or where our products are sold. The regulation of drug therapies in a number of such jurisdictions, particularly in the European Union, continues to develop, and there can be no assurance that new laws or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Any adverse changes in reimbursement procedures by government and other third party payors may limit our ability to market and sell our products or limit our product revenues and delay profitability. In the United States and elsewhere, sales of pharmaceutical products are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement to the consumer from third party payors, such as government and private insurance plans. Third party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Some third party payor benefit packages restrict reimbursement or do not provide coverage for specific drugs or drug classes. While a large percentage of prescriptions in the United States for MUSE have been reimbursed to some extent by third party payors since our commercial launch in January 1997, there can be no assurance that our products will be considered cost effective and that reimbursement to the consumer will continue to be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a competitive basis. In addition, certain healthcare providers are moving towards a managed care system in which such providers contract to provide comprehensive healthcare services, including prescription drugs, for a fixed cost per person. We are unable to predict the reimbursement policies employed by third party healthcare payors. Furthermore, reimbursement for MUSE could be adversely affected by changes in reimbursement policies of governmental or private healthcare payors. The healthcare industry is undergoing fundamental changes that are the result of political, economic and regulatory influences. The levels of revenue and profitability of pharmaceutical companies may be affected by the continuing efforts of governmental and third party payors to contain or reduce healthcare costs through various means. Reforms that have been and may be considered include mandated basic healthcare benefits, controls on healthcare spending through limitations on the increase in private health insurance premiums and the types of drugs eligible for reimbursement and Medicare and Medicaid spending, the creation of large insurance purchasing groups and fundamental changes to the healthcare delivery system. Due to uncertainties regarding the outcome of healthcare 42 Table of Contents reform initiatives and their enactment and implementation, we cannot predict which, if any, of the reform proposals will be adopted or the effect such adoption may have on us. There can be no assurance that future healthcare legislation or other changes in the administration or interpretation of government healthcare or third party reimbursement programs will not have a material adverse effect on us. Healthcare reform is also under consideration in other countries where we currently or intend to market our product. The continuing efforts of government and third party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means may reduce our potential revenues. These payors' efforts could decrease the price that we receive for any products we may develop and sell in the future. In addition, third party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for any products we develop. If government and third party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for our products, or if price controls are enacted, our product revenues will suffer. One of the active ingredients in Qnexa, phentermine is available as a generic. The other, topiramate, is subject to several patents, the first of which expired in 2008. Based on the research we have completed to date, we are unable to determine if Qnexa, if approved, will be subject to reimbursement or at what level reimbursement may occur. The exact doses of the active ingredients in the final formulation of Qnexa will be different than those currently available. State pharmacy law prohibits pharmacists from substituting drugs with differing doses and formulations. The safety and efficacy of Qnexa is highly dependent on the titration, dosing and formulation which we believe could not be easily duplicated, if at all, with the use of generic substitutes. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to provide for optimal reimbursement of Qnexa for obesity or any other indication, if approved, from third party payors or the United States government. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that healthcare providers would not actively seek to provide patients generic versions of the active ingredients in Qnexa in order to treat obesity at a potential lower cost. Federal legislation may increase the pressure to reduce prices of pharmaceutical products paid for by Medicare, which could adversely affect our revenues, if any. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, or MMA, expanded Medicare coverage for drug purchases by the elderly and disabled beginning in 2006. Under the MMA, private insurance plans subsidized by the government offer prescription drug coverage to Medicare beneficiaries who elect to enroll in their plans. Although almost all prescription drugs are potentially available to plan enrollees, the plans are allowed to use formularies, preferred drug lists and similar mechanisms to favor selected drugs and limit access to other drugs except in certain circumstances. The price of a drug as negotiated between the manufacturer and a plan is a factor that the plan can consider in determining its availability to enrollees. As a result, we expect that there will be increased pressure to reduce prices for drugs to obtain favorable status for them under the plans offering prescription drug coverage to Medicare beneficiaries. This pressure could decrease the coverage and price that we receive for our products in the future and could seriously harm our business. It is possible that our investigational product, Qnexa, if approved, could be particularly subject to price reduction initiatives because it is based on combinations of lower priced existing drugs. In addition, some members of Congress advocate that the federal government should negotiate directly with manufacturers for lower prices for drugs in the Medicare program, rather than rely on private plans. If the law were changed to allow or require such direct negotiation, there could be additional reductions in the coverage of and prices that we receive for our products. 43 Table of Contents Recent federal legislation and actions by state and local governments may permit re-importation of drugs from foreign countries into the United States, including foreign countries where the drugs are sold at lower prices than in the United States, which could adversely affect our operating results and our overall financial condition. We may face competition for our products from lower priced products from foreign countries that have placed price controls on pharmaceutical products. The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 contains provisions that may change United States importation laws and expand consumers' ability to import lower priced versions of our investigational product candidates and competing products from Canada, where there are government price controls. These changes to United States importation laws will not take effect unless and until the Secretary of Health and Human Services certifies that the changes will lead to substantial savings for consumers and will not create a public health safety issue. The Secretary of Health and Human Services has not yet announced any plans to make this required certification. As directed by Congress, a task force on drug importation conducted a comprehensive study regarding the circumstances under which drug importation could be safely conducted and the consequences of importation on the health, medical costs and development of new medicines for United States consumers. The task force issued its report in December 2004, finding that there are significant safety and economic issues that must be addressed before importation of prescription drugs is permitted. In addition, a number of federal legislative proposals have been made to implement the changes to the United States importation laws without any certification, and to broaden permissible imports in other ways. Even if the changes do not take effect, and other changes are not enacted, imports from Canada and elsewhere may continue to increase due to market and political forces, and the limited enforcement resources of the FDA, the United States Customs Service and other government agencies. For example, Pub. L. No. 109-295, which was signed into law in October 2006 and provides appropriations for the Department of Homeland Security for the 2007 fiscal year, expressly prohibits the United States Customs Service from using funds to prevent individuals from importing from Canada less than a 90-day supply of a prescription drug for personal use, when the drug otherwise complies with the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. Further, several states and local governments have implemented importation schemes for their citizens, and, in the absence of federal action to curtail such activities, we expect other states and local governments to launch importation efforts. The importation of foreign products that compete with our own products could negatively impact our financial condition. Defending against claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of hazardous materials could be time consuming and expensive. Our research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials and our operations produce hazardous waste products. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from those materials. Various laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. We may be sued for any injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production efforts. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of our CROs, safety monitoring company and other contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, accidents, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. While we have not experienced any such system failure, accident or security breach to date, if such an event were to occur and cause interruptions in our operations, it could result in a material disruption of our drug development programs and drug 44 Table of Contents manufacturing operations. For example, the loss of clinical trial data from completed or ongoing clinical trials for our investigational product candidates could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and the further development of our investigational product candidates could be delayed. Natural disasters or resource shortages could disrupt our operations and adversely affect results. Our MUSE manufacturing operation is conducted in a single location in Lakewood, New Jersey. In the event of a natural disaster in that region, such as a storm, drought or flood, or localized extended outages of critical utilities or transportation systems, we do not have a formal business continuity or disaster plan, and could therefore experience a significant business interruption. Furthermore, our ongoing or planned clinical trials could be delayed or disrupted indefinitely upon the occurrence of a natural disaster. For example, in 2005, our clinical trials in the New Orleans area were interrupted by Hurricane Katrina. Future natural disasters could further delay our clinical trials process, thus adversely affecting our business and financial results. Risks Relating to our Intellectual Property We may be sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of others or others may infringe on our intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that our products do not or will not infringe on the patent or proprietary rights of others. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. For example, in October 2002, the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or the USPTO, issued to Pfizer a method of use patent, U.S. Patent No. 6,469,012. Pfizer immediately initiated litigation against competitors who were selling PDE5 inhibitors, including ICOS, the maker of Cialis. In September 2003, the USPTO ordered the reexamination of the patent. In a related action, the European Patent Office revoked Pfizer's European patent. However, if the claims under the method of use patent are upheld by the USPTO, we may be prevented from commercializing avanafil, our PDE5 inhibitor, if approved by the FDA. In addition, third parties may already own or may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of our technologies infringes these patents. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of the time and attention of management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any such claims. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize and sell products, and such claims could result in the award of substantial damages against us. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. In that case, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products or be required to cease commercializing affected products and our operating results would be harmed. The Supreme Court ruling in KSR International Co. vs. Teleflex, Inc. will raise the standards for patentability and ease the ability to show that a patent is obvious. This ruling will make it more difficult to obtain patents for combination pharmaceutical products. At the present time, we are unable to predict the impact, if any, that this ruling will have on our current or future patents. If we are unable to defend the patents currently issued on our commercial product and investigational product candidates, or to obtain new patents for any reason, our ability to commercialize the current and future products would be at risk. 45 Table of Contents Our inability to adequately protect our proprietary technologies could harm our competitive position and have a material adverse effect on our business. We hold various patents and patent applications in the United States and abroad targeting obesity, diabetes and male and female sexual health among other products. Qnexa is our investigational product candidate involving low doses of topiramate and phentermine. On June 6, 2006, the initial United States patent was issued by the USPTO. This patent contains composition, product, and other claims that should protect Qnexa, if approved, as a proprietary product for the treatment of obesity. The term of this patent extends into 2019. In January 2009, the European Patent Office granted European patent No. 1,187,603 which broadly covers Qnexa and its use as a weight loss treatment. The patent extends the intellectual property protection of Qnexa beyond the already issued patents in the United States and abroad. We are in the process of prosecuting patent applications in other countries as well, to obtain significant foreign patent coverage for both Qnexa and future generations of Qnexa. Furthermore, we have filed additional patent applications in the United States to expand the coverage that will be provided by U.S. Patent No. 7,056,890 B2. The primary focus of the patent applications is on combination therapy using a sympathomimetic agent (such as phentermine) and an anticonvulsant (such as topiramate) for the treatment of obesity and other related disorders. We are aware of an issued patent for the use of topiramate for obesity. We have worked closely with our patent counsel to put together a cogent patent strategy and are building a strong patent portfolio in an attempt to obtain exclusivity over the life of the patents. The success of our business depends, in part, on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property for our proprietary technology and products in the United States and other countries. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting their proprietary rights in these foreign countries. These problems can be caused by, for example, a lack of rules and processes allowing for meaningful defense of intellectual property rights. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our technologies' and erode our competitive advantage and our business and operating results could be harmed. The patent positions of pharmaceutical companies, including our patent positions, are often uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We apply for patents covering our technologies and products, as we deem appropriate. However, we may not obtain patents on all inventions for which we seek patents, and any patents we obtain may be challenged and may be narrowed in scope or extinguished as a result of such challenges. We could incur substantial costs in proceedings before the USPTO, including interference proceedings. These proceedings could also result in adverse decisions as to the priority of our inventions. There can be no assurance that our patents will not be successfully challenged or designed around by others. Our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. Others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies or products. These companies would then be able to develop, manufacture and sell products that compete directly with our products. In that case, our revenues and operating results would decline. We seek to protect our confidential information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators, CROs, consultants and potential investors. Nevertheless, employees, collaborators, consultants or potential investors may still disclose or misuse our confidential information, and we may not be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets. In addition, others may independently develop substantially equivalent information or techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Disclosure or misuse of our confidential information would harm our competitive position and could cause our revenues and operating results to decline. 46 Table of Contents We may be subject to claims that we, or our employees, have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. We employ individuals who were previously employed at other pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although we have no knowledge of any pending or overtly threatened claims, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. We may be unable to in-license intellectual property rights or technology necessary to develop and commercialize our products. Depending on its ultimate formulation and method of use, before we can develop, clinically test, make, use, or sell a particular investigational product candidate, we may need to obtain a license from one or more third parties who have patent or other intellectual property rights covering components of our investigational product candidate or its method of use. There can be no assurance that such licenses will be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If a third party does not offer us a necessary license or offers a license only on terms that are unattractive or unacceptable to us, we might be unable to develop and commercialize one or more of our investigational product candidates. Risks Relating to our Financial Position and Need for Financing We require additional capital for our future operating plans, and we may not be able to secure the requisite additional funding on acceptable terms, or at all. We expect that our existing capital resources combined with future anticipated cash flows will be sufficient to support our operating activities at least through the end of 2009. However, we anticipate that we will be required to obtain additional financing to fund the development of our research and development pipeline in future periods as well as to support the possible launch of any future products. Our future capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: •the progress and costs of our research and development programs; •the scope, timing and results of pre-clinical studies and clinical trials; •patient recruitment and enrollment in planned and future clinical trials; •the costs involved in seeking regulatory approvals for our investigational product candidates; •the costs involved in filing and pursuing patent applications, defending and enforcing patent claims; •the establishment of collaborative and strategic alliances and the related costs; •the cost of manufacturing and commercialization activities and arrangements; •the results of operations; •demand for MUSE; •the potential forced purchase of the royalty streams we previously sold to Deerfield; •the cost, timing and outcome of regulatory reviews; •the rate of technological advances; •ongoing determinations of the potential commercial success of our investigational product candidates under development; 47 Table of Contents •the level of resources devoted to sales and marketing capabilities; •the regulatory approval environment and regulatory hurdles for safety assessment for new products; •the health care reimbursement system; and •the activities of competitors. To obtain additional capital when needed, we will evaluate alternative financing sources, including, but not limited to, the issuance of equity or debt securities, corporate alliances, joint ventures and licensing agreements. However, there can be no assurance that funding will be available on favorable terms, if at all. The equity capital markets appear to be closed at the present time and we estimate that they will remain closed for several months. As such, our ability to raise capital through the issuance of new equity is extremely limited. We are continually evaluating our existing portfolio and we may choose to divest, sell or spin-off one or more of our products or investigational product candidates at any time. We cannot assure you that we will successfully develop our investigational product candidates under development or, if successfully developed or approved, that our products will generate revenues sufficient to enable us to earn a profit. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, management may be required to explore alternatives to reduce cash used by operating activities, including the termination of research and development efforts that may appear to be promising to us, the sale of certain assets and the reduction in overall operating activities. We have an accumulated deficit of $179.8 million as of December 31, 2008 and we may continue to incur substantial operating losses for the future. We have generated a cumulative net loss of $179.8 million for the period from our inception through December 31, 2008, and we anticipate losses in future years due to continued investment in our research and development programs. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve or maintain profitability or that we will be successful in the future. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income may be limited. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $86.2 million of net operating loss, or NOL, carryforwards with which to offset our future taxable income for federal and state income tax reporting purposes. We used $121.6 million federal and $38.7 million state NOLs to offset our year ended December 31, 2007 federal and state tax liabilities, which included the $150 million in gain recognized from the Evamist sale. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, contains provisions that may limit the net operating loss and credit carryforwards available for use in any given period upon the occurrence of certain events, including significant change in ownership interest. Should this occur, our future ability to use NOLs to offset taxable earnings would be limited in accordance with the Internal Revenue Code. We may be unable to collect on our claim for reimbursement of product and establishment and NDA application fees from the FDA. We believe we are due a refund of approximately $1.9 million pursuant to Section 736(d)(1)(C) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FDC Act from the FDA for product and establishment fees paid in 2006, 2007 and 2008 and for the NDA application fee for Evamist paid in 2006 on the basis that the fees paid exceed the anticipated present and future costs incurred by the FDA in conducting the process for the review of human drug applications for VIVUS, Inc. To date, we have collected $767,000 from the FDA. We believe that we will collect these remaining refund amounts from the FDA; however, should we be unable to collect on these claims, we will be required to reverse all or some part of these remaining receivables. 48 Table of Contents If we become subject to product liability claims, we may be required to pay damages that exceed our insurance coverage. The commercial sale of MUSE and our clinical trials expose us to a significant risk of product liability claims. In addition, pharmaceutical products are subject to heightened risk for product liability claims due to inherent side effects. We identify potential side effects in the patient package insert and the physician package insert, both of which are distributed with MUSE. While we believe that we are reasonably insured against these risks, we may not be able to obtain insurance in amounts or scope sufficient to provide us with adequate coverage against all potential liabilities. A product liability claim in excess of, or excluded from, our insurance coverage would have to be paid out of cash reserves and could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. Product liability insurance is expensive, difficult to maintain, and current or increased coverage may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Risks Relating to an Investment in our Common Stock Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to continue to be so. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate due to factors including, but not limited to: •results within the clinical trial programs for Qnexa and avanafil; •announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; •announcements by licensors of our technology; •our ability to increase demand for our products in the United States and internationally; •our ability to successfully sell our products in the United States and internationally; •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial results; •our ability to obtain needed financing; •economic conditions in the United States and abroad; •the volatility and liquidity of the financial markets; •comments by or changes in assessments of us or financial estimates by security analysts; •adverse regulatory actions or decisions; •any loss of key management; •the results of our clinical trials relative to those of our competitors; •developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; •licensing, product or patent litigation; and •public concern as to the safety of products developed by us. These factors and fluctuations, as well as political and market conditions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Securities class action litigation is often brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation, whether with or without merit, could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources, which could harm our business and financial condition, as well as the market price of our common stock. 49 Table of Contents Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain or recruit key employees, all of whom have been or will be granted stock options as an important part of their compensation packages. Volatility in the stock prices of other companies may contribute to volatility in our stock price. The stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Global Market and the market for life sciences companies in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Further, there has been particular volatility in the market prices of securities of early stage and development stage life sciences companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Our share ownership is concentrated, and our officers, directors and principal stockholders acting collectively can exert significant control over matters requiring stockholder approval. Due to their combined stock holdings, our officers, directors and principal stockholders (stockholders holding greater than 5% of our common stock) acting collectively may have the ability to exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible to complete without the support of these stockholders. Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and this fluctuation may cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. Factors contributing to these fluctuations include, among other items, the timing and enrollment rates of clinical trials for our drug candidates, the timing of significant purchases of MUSE by distributors, the timing of recognition of deferred revenue, and our need for clinical supplies. Thus, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not indicative of what we might expect in the future. As a result, in some future quarters our operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could result in a decline in the price of our stock. There may not be an active, liquid trading market for our common stock. There is no guarantee that an active trading market for our common stock will be maintained on the NASDAQ Global Market. Investors may not be able to sell their shares quickly or at the latest market price if trading in our stock is not active. Our charter documents and Delaware law could make an acquisition of our company difficult, even if an acquisition may benefit our stockholders. Our Board of Directors has adopted a Preferred Shares Rights Plan. The Preferred Shares Rights Plan has the effect of causing substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. The existence of the Preferred Shares Rights Plan could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable. 50 Table of Contents Some provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Some of these provisions: •authorize the issuance of preferred stock by the Board of Directors without prior stockholder approval, commonly referred to as "blank check" preferred stock, with rights senior to those of common stock; •prohibit stockholder actions by written consent; •specify procedures for director nominations by stockholders and submission of other proposals for consideration at stockholder meetings; and •eliminate cumulative voting in the election of directors. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of Delaware General Corporate Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These and other provisions in our charter documents could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions. Changes in financial accounting standards related to share-based payments are expected to continue to have a significant effect on our reported results. On January 1, 2006, we adopted the revised statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. SFAS 123R, or SFAS 123R, Share-Based Payment, which requires that we record compensation expense in the statement of operations for share-based payments, such as employee stock options, using the fair value method. The adoption of this new standard is expected to continue to have a significant effect on our reported earnings, although it will not affect our cash flows, and could adversely impact our ability to provide accurate guidance on our future reported financial results due to the variability of the factors used to estimate the values of share-based payments. If factors change and we employ different assumptions or different valuation methods in the application of SFAS 123R in future periods, the compensation expense that we record under SFAS 123R may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period, which could negatively affect our stock price. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ Global Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and management time related to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors' review and audit of our internal control over financial reporting has required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. We expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. If we fail to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards, our reputation may be harmed and we might be subject to sanctions or 51 Table of Contents investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock. The investment of our cash balance and our investments in marketable debt securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. At December 31, 2008, we had $66.1 million in cash and cash equivalents and $123.1 million in available-for-sale securities. We invest our excess cash balances in money market and marketable securities, primarily U.S. Treasury securities and debt securities of U.S. government agencies, corporate debt securities and asset-backed securities, in accordance with our investment policy approved by the Board of Directors. The investment policy has the primary investment objectives of preservation of principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk; however, there may be times when certain of the securities in our portfolio will fall below the credit ratings required in the policy. If those securities are downgraded or impaired we would experience losses in the value of our portfolio which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Certain of these securities are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by the continuing economic turmoil that has affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues. An investment in money market mutual funds is not insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any other government agency. Although money market mutual funds seek to preserve the value of the investment at $1.00 per share, it is possible to lose money by investing in money market mutual funds. From 2005 and until December 2007, the Company had an investment in Columbia Strategic Cash Portfolio, or Strategic Cash, offered by the Company's investment advisor, Columbia Management LLC, or Columbia, an affiliate of Bank of America. Strategic Cash is an enhanced money market fund in which the fund sought to maintain a $1 per share net asset value. The Company used Strategic Cash for the investment of excess cash, and periodic transfers were made from Strategic Cash to the operating cash account to fund current operations. In early December 2007, we were notified by Columbia that the Strategic Cash fund was closed and that the fund was to be liquidated. The fund no longer supported the $1 per share net asset value and switched to a market value fund in which all investments were marked to market. We were given the option of staying in the fund and receiving cash proceeds from the fund as its holdings were liquidated or receiving a pro-rata share of the investments held by the fund. Upon advice from our investment advisor, Columbia, we took a redemption-in-kind distribution consisting of cash, interest receivable and a pro-rata distribution of the underlying securities, consisting principally of high quality corporate debt and asset-backed securities. Prior to the redemption, our investment in Strategic Cash was $84.4 million. On December 20, 2007 and December 21, 2007, we received our redemption-in-kind distribution consisting of securities with a market value of $68.7 million, interest receivable of $300,000 and cash of $14.4 million. The difference between our investment in Strategic Cash of $84.4 million and the fair value of the securities, cash and interest receivable totaling $83.4 million received in-kind resulted in a loss of $1 million. This loss of $1 million is reflected in interest income in the consolidated statement of operations and other comprehensive income (loss) for the year ended December 31, 2007. We have reason to believe certain of these securities are in default and others have experienced a decline in market value. In addition, the active market for certain securities is extremely limited. As a result of the distribution from Strategic Cash, we received securities that fell outside the investment policy at that time. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors allowed the receipt of the securities and granted an exception to the policy for these specific securities. At the time of distribution, the Strategic Cash held $35 billion in securities. Several other holders in Strategic Cash received a redemption-in-kind distribution as well. Shareholders who remained in Strategic Cash will receive cash as the fund is liquidated. It is our belief that the investors in the Strategic Cash who did 52 Table of Contents not take, or were not allowed to take, a redemption-in-kind distribution will not realize 100% of their holdings. As a result of all of the redemptions-in-kind held by us and others, the liquidation of the fund itself and the general market conditions for these types of securities, the current market value of these securities has been and may continue to be negatively affected. Based on our expected operating cash flows, and our other sources of cash, we do not anticipate the potential lack of liquidity on certain of these investments will affect our ability to execute our current business plan; however, these market risks associated with our investment portfolio could cause the loss of a significant portion of our investments which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. The value of our investments is influenced by varying economic and market conditions, and a decrease in value may result in a loss charged to income. Our available-for-sale investment securities were $123.1 million and represented 59% of our total consolidated assets at December 31, 2008. These assets are carried at fair value, and the unrealized gains or losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of shareholders' equity, unless the decline in value is deemed to be other-than-temporary and we do not have the intent and ability to hold such securities until their full cost can be recovered. If a decline in value is deemed to be other-than-temporary and we do not have the intent and ability to hold such security until its full cost can be recovered, the security is deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired and it is written down to fair value and the loss is charged to income. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we review our investment securities to determine if declines in fair value below cost are other-than-temporary. This review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. We conduct this review on a quarterly basis, using both quantitative and qualitative factors, to determine whether a decline in value is other-than-temporary. Such factors considered include the length of time and the extent to which market value has been less than cost, financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, recommendations of investment advisors and forecasts of economic, market or industry trends. This review process also entails an evaluation of our ability and intent to hold individual securities until they mature or full cost can be recovered. The current economic environment and recent volatility of securities markets increase the difficulty of assessing investment impairment and the same influences tend to increase the risk of potential impairment of these assets. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded charges for other-than-temporary impairment of securities of $7.7 million. We believe we have adequately reviewed our investment securities for impairment and that our investment securities are carried at fair value. However, over time, the economic and market environment may provide additional insight regarding the fair value of certain securities, which could change our judgment regarding impairment. This could result in realized losses relating to other-than-temporary declines being charged against future income. Given the current market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is continuing risk that further declines in fair value may occur and additional material other-than-temporary impairments may be charged to income in future periods. Risks Relating to our Transaction with Deerfield Management Company, L.P. and Affiliates Background Simultaneously with the sale of securities to funds affiliated with the Deerfield Affiliates, on April 15, 2008, we entered into the Funding and Royalty Agreement, or FARA, an Option and Put Agreement, or the OPA, and a Security Agreement with the Deerfield Sub, a newly incorporated subsidiary of Deerfield Management Company L.P. We also entered into a Security Agreement with the shareholders of the Deerfield Sub. Under the terms of the FARA, the Deerfield Sub made $3.3 million 53 Table of Contents payments to us in April, September and December 2008 and will make three quarterly payments of approximately $3.3 million, thereafter. As part of the funding arrangement, we have agreed to continue our development of avanafil, our oral PDE5i for the Deerfield Sub. The FARA also provides that we will pay royalties on the net MUSE sales on a quarterly basis. Under the FARA, the royalty payments continue for 10 years. There are no minimum royalties due; however, we have agreed to maintain the promotion of MUSE consistent with our prior efforts. The OPA provides that we may purchase all the outstanding shares of the Deerfield Sub, thus ending any further royalty payments. The OPA allows for the purchase of the shares of the Deerfield Sub by us for $23 million on a net basis through the first three years and $26 million net from the third to fourth year. The purchase amounts are net of the $2 million premium paid to Deerfield Affiliates for the call option. We have no ability to repurchase the shares after the fourth year. The OPA provides that Deerfield Affiliates can force a sale of all the shares of the Deerfield Sub to us beginning after the third year through the tenth year. The timing on the sale of the shares could be accelerated under certain conditions including a change-in-control, sale of MUSE or avanafil, sale of major assets and the sale of securities in a transaction or a series of related transactions by us that exceed 20% of our outstanding common stock at the date the OPA was signed if at the time of the sale our market capitalization is below $300 million (each, a Major Transaction). Under these conditions, the cost of the shares of the Deerfield Sub would be $23 million before the third anniversary and $26 million from the third to tenth anniversary. The sale of the shares of the Deerfield Sub could also accelerate if our cash, cash equivalents and available for sale securities falls below $15 million or our market capitalization falls below $50 million. As security for the payment of royalties we have pledged certain unencumbered MUSE and avanafil assets to the Deerfield Sub. As security for the payment under the forced purchase of shares of the Deerfield Sub to us, we have pledged certain unencumbered MUSE and avanafil assets to Deerfield Affiliates. Risks Related to the FARA Under the FARA, the payment of the royalties may result in the MUSE operations being unprofitable. If we fail to exercise the option to repurchase the shares of the Deerfield Sub or if Deerfield Affiliates does not force us to purchase the shares of the Deerfield Sub, we will continue to pay royalties into 2018. We agreed to continue to promote MUSE at levels consistent with our current efforts. This requirement may force us to allocate resources that could be better utilized for other activities. If we decide to sell the MUSE business line or related assets, we will be forced to purchase the shares of the Deerfield Sub. The royalty payments and required commitment under the FARA may have an adverse effect on our cash flows, the market price of our common stock, our ability to raise money, financial position and results of operations. Under the OPA, the shareholders of the Deerfield Sub have agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities related to the operations of the Deerfield Sub, if any. Should we incur any such liabilities and the shareholders of the Deerfield Sub fail to pay for such liabilities as part of the indemnity, we would have to reallocate our resources to paying such liabilities and incur further expenses to enforce our right to indemnification under the OPA. Risks Related to the OPA Under the OPA, we only have four years to repurchase the shares of the Deerfield Sub. If we do not exercise this option within this period of time we will pay royalties through 2018. If exercised by us, the OPA will require us to pay $23 million or $26 million. The payment of these amounts may have an adverse effect on our cash balances, stock price and operations at the time of payment. Deerfield Affiliates has the ability to force us to buy the shares of the Deerfield Sub for $17 million, $23 million or $26 million. The payment of any one of these amounts would have a material adverse effect on our cash balance at the time. If our purchase of the Deerfield Sub shares is accelerated due to a Major Transaction, our ability to effectively negotiate and complete such a transaction could be adversely affected. The proceeds from such a transaction will also be reduced by the price paid for the Deerfield Sub shares. 54 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Security Agreement We entered into a Security Agreement with the Deerfield Sub to secure the royalty payments and with Deerfield Affiliates to secure the forced sale of the Deerfield Sub shares. The Security Agreements severely limit our ability to commercialize the assets covered by the Security Agreement outside the ordinary course of business including a sale of some or all of these assets. These assets would also not be available to serve as collateral for any future purpose. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 