risk factors. Subjects in the Qsymia recommended dose (7.5mg/46mg) and top dose (15mg/92mg) treatment groups experienced reductions of 70.5% and 78.7% in the annualized incidence rate of type 2 diabetes, respectively, versus placebo, which was related to degree of weight lost (10.9% and 12.1%, respectively, versus 2.5% with placebo; ITT-MI; P < 0.0001). Qsymia therapy was well tolerated by this subgroup over two years. Among patients in the study taking Qsymia, common adverse events included paraesthesia (tingling in the fingers or feet), sinusitis, dry mouth, constipation, headache, and dysgeusia (change in perception of taste). The types and severity of adverse events seen in this subgroup analysis were similar to those seen in the overall SEQUEL patient population and in other clinical trials. We are currently contemplating the timing of a Phase 3 study. Qsymia in development for Other Indications We believe Qsymia may be helpful in treating other obesity-related diseases, including nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, or NASH, or its precursor, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, or NAFLD, also known as fatty liver disease. We believe Qsymia may also be helpful in treating hyperlipidemia, or an elevation of lipids (fats) in the bloodstream. These lipids include cholesterol, cholesterol esters (compounds), phospholipids and triglycerides. In addition, we believe Qsymia may be helpful in patients with hypertension who do not respond well to antihypertensive medication. We are currently contemplating whether to pursue these other indications. STENDRA for the treatment of Erectile Dysfunction Erectile dysfunction, or ED, affects an estimated 52% of men between the ages of 40 and 70. Prevalence increases with age and can be caused by a variety of factors, including medications (anti-hypertensives, histamine receptor antagonists); lifestyle (tobacco, alcohol use); diseases (diabetes, cardiovascular conditions, prostate cancer); and spinal cord injuries. Left untreated, ED can negatively impact relationships and self-esteem, causing feelings of embarrassment and guilt. About half of men being treated with currently available phosphodiesterase 5, or PDE5, inhibitors are dissatisfied with treatment. The market opportunity for ED medical treatments continues to grow, with worldwide sales of PDE5 inhibitors exceeding $5 billion in 2012. Our drug STENDRA (avanafil) is an oral PDE5 inhibitor we have licensed from MTPC. STENDRA was approved in the U.S. by the FDA on April 27, 2012, for the treatment of ED. As part of the approval of STENDRA, we are committed to conduct two post-approval clinical studies. The first is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group multicenter clinical trial on the effect of STENDRA on spermatogenesis in healthy adult males and males with mild ED. The other study is a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, single-dose clinical trial to assess the effects of STENDRA on multiple parameters of vision, including, but not limited to, visual acuity, intraocular pressure, pupillometry, and color vision discrimination in healthy male subjects. These studies are currently underway. On June 19, 2013, we announced clinical study results showing avanafil is effective for sexual activity within 15 minutes in men with ED. In the 440-patient study conducted at 30 sites in the U.S., STENDRA patients achieved statistically significant improvement versus placebo in the mean 11 Table of Contents proportion of attempts that resulted in erections sufficient for successful intercourse as early as 10 minutes for the 200-mg dose and 12 minutes for the 100-mg dose following administration. The currently approved prescribing information recommends administration approximately 30 minutes before sexual activity. On January 21, 2014, we announced that the FDA had accepted a supplemental application that proposes to revise the STENDRA prescribing information with efficacy and safety information from this study. The Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, date for the supplemental filing is September 20, 2014. We intend to submit the above-mentioned clinical study results to peer review journals and medical society meetings for presentations. Menarini also intends to submit an application for a variation of the marketing authorization for SPEDRA to the European Commission to reflect clinical study results showing that avanafil is effective for sexual activity within 15 minutes in men with erectile dysfunction, or ED, in the Summary of Product Characteristics and the Patient Information Leaflet for the product. We have granted an exclusive license to Menarini to commercialize and promote SPEDRA for the treatment of erectile dysfunction in over 40 European countries, including the EU, plus Australia and New Zealand. In addition, we have granted an exclusive license to Auxilium to market STENDRA in the United States and Canada. We have also granted an exclusive license to Sanofi to commercialize avanafil in Africa, the Middle East, Turkey, and the CIS, including Russia. We are currently in discussions with potential partners to commercialize STENDRA in other territories under our license with MTPC in which we do not currently have a commercial collaboration. Other Programs We have licensed and intend to continue to license from third parties the rights to other investigational drug candidates to treat various diseases and medical conditions. We also sponsor early-stage clinical trials at various research institutions and intend to conduct early-stage proof of concept studies on our own. We expect to continue to use our expertise in designing and conducting clinical trials, formulation and investigational drug candidate development to commercialize pharmaceuticals for unmet medical needs or for disease states that are underserved by currently approved drugs. We intend to develop products with a proprietary position or that complement our other products currently under development, although there can be no assurance that any of these investigational product candidates will be successfully developed and approved by regulatory authorities. Government Regulations FDA Regulation Prescription pharmaceutical products are subject to extensive pre- and post-marketing regulation by the FDA. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, and its implementing regulations govern, among other things, requirements for the testing, development, manufacturing, quality control, safety, efficacy, approval, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, reporting, distribution, import, export, advertising and promotion of drug products. The activities required before a pharmaceutical agent may be marketed in the U.S. begin with pre-clinical testing. Pre-clinical tests generally include laboratory evaluation of potential products and animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product and its formulations. The results of these studies and other information must be submitted to the FDA as part of an Investigational New Drug, or IND, application, which must be reviewed and approved by the FDA before proposed clinical testing in human volunteers can begin. Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational new drug to healthy volunteers or to patients under the supervision of a qualified principal investigator. Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with Good Clinical Practices, or GCP, which establish standards for conducting, recording data from, and reporting results of, clinical trials, and are intended to assure that the data and reported results are credible, accurate, and that the 12 Table of Contents rights, safety and well-being of study participants are protected. Clinical trials must be under protocols that detail the objectives of the study, the parameters to be used to monitor safety and the efficacy criteria to be evaluated. Each protocol must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND application. Further, each clinical study must be conducted under the auspices of an independent institutional review board. The institutional review board will consider, among other things, regulations and guidelines for obtaining informed consent from study subjects, as well as other ethical factors and the safety of human patients. The sponsoring company, the FDA, or the Institutional Review Board, or IRB, may suspend or terminate a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Typically, human clinical trials are conducted in three phases that may overlap. In Phase 1, clinical trials are conducted with a small number of patients to determine the early safety profile and pharmacology of the new therapy. In Phase 2, clinical trials are conducted with groups of patients afflicted with a specific disease or medical condition in order to determine preliminary efficacy, optimal dosages and expanded evidence of safety. In Phase 3, large-scale, multicenter clinical trials are conducted with patients afflicted with a target disease or medical condition in order to provide substantial evidence of efficacy and safety required by the FDA and others. The results of the pre-clinical and clinical testing, together with chemistry and manufacturing information, are submitted to the FDA in the form of a New Drug Application, or NDA, for a pharmaceutical product in order to obtain approval to commence commercial sales. In responding to an NDA, the FDA may grant marketing approvals, may request additional information or further research or studies, or may deny the application if it determines that the application does not satisfy its regulatory approval criteria. FDA approval for a pharmaceutical product may not be granted on a timely basis, if at all. Under the goals and policies agreed to by the FDA under the PDUFA, the FDA has twelve months in which to complete its initial review of a standard NDA and respond to the applicant, and eight months for a priority NDA. The FDA does not always meet its PDUFA goal dates and in certain circumstances, the review process and the PDUFA goal date may be extended. A subsequent application for approval of an additional indication must also be reviewed by the FDA under the same criteria as apply to original applications, and may be denied as well. In addition, even if FDA approval is granted, it may not cover all the clinical indications for which approval is sought or may contain significant limitations in the form of warnings, precautions or contraindications with respect to conditions of use. In addition, the FDA may require the establishment of REMS that may, for instance, restrict distribution and impose burdensome implementation requirements. Our approved product Qsymia is subject to a REMS program. Satisfaction of FDA premarket approval requirements for new drugs typically takes several years and the actual time required may vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product or targeted disease. Government regulation may delay or prevent marketing of potential products for a considerable period of time and may impose costly procedures upon our activities. Success in early-stage clinical trials or with prior versions of products does not assure success in later stage clinical trials. Data obtained from clinical activities are not always conclusive and may be susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Once approved, products are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA. The FDA may withdraw the product approval if compliance with post-marketing regulatory standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the marketplace. In addition, the FDA may require post-marketing studies, referred to as PMR studies, to monitor the effect of an approved product, and may limit further marketing of the product based on the results of these post-market studies. The FDA has required us to perform PMR studies for both of our approved products, Qsymia and STENDRA. The FDA has broad post-market regulatory and enforcement powers, including the ability to levy fines and civil penalties, suspend or delay issuance of approvals, seize or recall products, or withdraw approvals. Additionally, the Food and Drug Amendment Act of 2007 requires all clinical trials we 13 Table of Contents conduct for our investigational drug candidates, both before and after approval, and the results of those trials when available, to be included in a clinical trials registry database that is available and accessible to the public via the Internet. Our failure to properly participate in the clinical trial database registry would subject us to significant civil penalties. Facilities used to manufacture drugs are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA, and other authorities where applicable, and must comply with the FDA's current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP regulations. Compliance with cGMP includes adhering to requirements relating to organization of personnel, buildings and facilities, equipment, control of components and drug product containers and closures, production and process controls, packaging and labeling controls, holding and distribution, laboratory controls, and records and reports. Failure to comply with the statutory and regulatory requirements subjects the manufacturer to possible legal or regulatory action, such as suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product or voluntary recall of a product. The FDA imposes a number of complex regulations on entities that advertise and promote pharmaceuticals, which include, among other things, standards and regulations relating to direct-to-consumer advertising, off-label promotion, industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities, and promotional activities involving the Internet. A product cannot be commercially promoted before it is approved. After approval, product promotion can include only those claims relating to safety and effectiveness that are consistent with the labeling approved by the FDA. The FDA has very broad enforcement authority. Failure to abide by these regulations can result in adverse publicity, and/or enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter directing the entity to correct deviations from FDA standards, and state and federal civil and criminal investigations and prosecutions. This could subject a company to a range of penalties that could have a significant commercial impact, including civil and criminal fines and agreements that materially restrict the manner in which a company promotes or distributes drug products. Companies that manufacture or distribute drug products or that hold approved NDAs must comply with other regulatory requirements, including submitting annual reports, reporting information about adverse drug experiences, and maintaining certain records. In addition, we are subject to various laws and regulations regarding the use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances in connection with our research. In each of these areas, as noted above, the government has broad regulatory and enforcement powers, including the ability to levy fines and civil penalties, suspend or delay issuance of approvals, seize or recall products, and withdraw approvals, any one or more of which could have a material adverse effect upon us. Other Government Regulations In addition to laws and regulations enforced by the FDA, we are also subject to regulation under National Institutes of Health guidelines as well as under the Controlled Substances Act, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Environmental Protection Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and other present and potential future federal, state or local laws and regulations, as our research and development may involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals, viruses and various radioactive compounds. In addition to regulations in the U.S., we are subject to a variety of foreign regulations governing clinical trials, commercial sales, and distribution of our investigational drug candidates. We must obtain separate approvals by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence marketing of the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country, and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country. 14 Table of Contents United States Healthcare Reform In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010, which is referred to in this report as the Affordable Care Act was adopted in the United States. This law substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry. The Affordable Care Act contains a number of provisions that are expected to impact our business and operations, in some cases in ways we cannot currently predict. Changes that may affect our business include those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes, rules regarding prescription drug benefits under the health insurance exchanges, expansion of the 340B program, and fraud and abuse and enforcement. These changes will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs, including Medicare payment for performance initiatives and improvements to the physician quality reporting system and feedback program. The Affordable Care Act made significant changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate program. Effective March 23, 2010, rebate liability expanded from fee-for-service Medicaid utilization to include the utilization of Medicaid managed care organizations as well. With regard to the amount of the rebates owed, the Affordable Care Act increased the minimum Medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1% of the average manufacturer price for most innovator products and from 11% to 13% for non-innovator products; changed the calculation of the rebate for certain innovator products that qualify as line extensions of existing drugs; and capped the total rebate amount for innovator drugs at 100% of the average manufacturer price. In addition, the Affordable Care Act and subsequent legislation changed the definition of average manufacturer price. In 2012, Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services, or CMS, the federal agency that administers the Medicare and Medicaid Drug Rebate program, issued proposed regulations to implement the changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate program under the Affordable Care Act but has not yet issued final regulations. CMS is currently expected to release the final regulations in 2014. Finally, the Affordable Care Act requires pharmaceutical manufacturers of branded prescription drugs to pay a branded prescription drug fee to the federal government beginning in 2011. Each individual pharmaceutical manufacturer pays a prorated share of the branded prescription drug fee of $3.0 billion in 2014 (and set to increase in ensuing years), based on the dollar value of its branded prescription drug sales to certain federal programs identified in the law. Additional provisions of the Affordable Care Act, some of which became effective in 2011, may negatively affect our revenues in the future. For example, as part of the Affordable Care Act's provisions closing a coverage gap that currently exists in the Medicare Part D prescription drug program, or the donut hole, manufacturers are required to provide a 50% discount on branded prescription drugs dispensed to beneficiaries within this donut hole. There currently is not coverage under Medicare Part D, but this could change in the future. The Affordable Care Act also expanded the Public Health Service's 340B drug pricing discount program. The 340B pricing program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily defined covered entities no more than the 340B "ceiling price" for the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs. The Affordable Care Act expanded the 340B program to include additional types of covered entities: certain free-standing cancer hospitals, critical access hospitals, rural referral centers and sole community hospitals, each as defined by the Affordable Care Act. The Affordable Care Act also obligates the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services to create regulations and processes to improve the integrity of the 340B program and to ensure the agreement that manufacturers must sign to participate in the 340B program obligates a manufacturer to offer the 340B price to covered entities if the manufacturer makes the drug available to any other purchaser at any price and to report to the government the ceiling prices for its drugs. The Health Resources and Services Administration is expected to issue a comprehensive proposed regulation in 2014 that will 15 Table of Contents address many aspects of the 340B program. When that regulation is finalized, it could affect our obligations under the 340B program in ways we cannot anticipate. In addition, legislation may be introduced that, if passed, would further expand the 340B program to additional covered entities or would require participating manufacturers to agree to provide 340B discounted pricing on drugs used in the inpatient setting. Some states have elected not to expand their Medicaid programs by raising the income limit to 133% of the federal poverty level as permitted under the Affordable Care Act. For each state that does not choose to expand its Medicaid program, there may be fewer insured patients overall, which could impact our sales, business and financial condition. Pharmaceutical Pricing and Reimbursement In both U.S. and foreign markets, our ability to commercialize our products successfully, and to attract commercialization partners for our products, depends in significant part on the availability of adequate financial coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors, including, in the United States, governmental payors such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs, managed care organizations, and private health insurers. Third-party payors decide which drugs they will pay for and establish reimbursement and co-pay levels. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medicines and examining their cost-effectiveness, in addition to their safety and efficacy. We may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of our products. Even with studies, our products may be considered less safe, less effective or less cost-effective than existing products, and third-party payors may not provide coverage and reimbursement for our product candidates, in whole or in part. Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry in the United States to fundamental changes. There have been, and we expect there will continue to be, legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably. We anticipate that the United States Congress, state legislatures and the private sector will continue to consider and may adopt healthcare policies intended to curb rising healthcare costs. These cost-containment measures include: controls on government funded reimbursement for drugs; new or increased requirements to pay prescription drug rebates to government healthcare programs; controls on healthcare providers; challenges to the pricing of drugs or limits or prohibitions on reimbursement for specific products through other means; requirements to try less expensive products or generics before a more expensive branded product; changes in drug importation laws; expansion of use of managed care systems in which healthcare providers contract to provide comprehensive healthcare for a fixed cost per person; and public funding for cost-effectiveness research, which may be used by government and private third-party payors to make coverage and payment decisions. Payors also are increasingly considering new metrics as the basis for reimbursement rates, such as average sales price, average manufacturer price and Actual Acquisition Cost. The existing data for reimbursement based on these metrics is relatively limited, although certain states have begun to survey acquisition cost data for the purpose of setting Medicaid reimbursement rates. CMS has made draft National Average Drug Acquisition Cost, or NADAC, and draft National Average Retail Price, or NARP, data publicly available on at least a monthly basis. In July 2013, CMS suspended the publication of draft NARP data, pending funding decisions. In November 2013, CMS moved to publishing final, rather than draft, NADAC data and has since made updated NADAC data publicly available on a weekly basis. Therefore, it may be difficult to project the impact of these evolving reimbursement mechanics on the willingness of payors to cover our products. We participate in the Medicaid Drug Rebate program, established by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 and amended by the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 as well as 16 Table of Contents subsequent legislation. Under the Medicaid Drug Rebate program, we are required to pay a rebate to each state Medicaid program for our covered outpatient drugs that are dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries and paid for by a state Medicaid program as a condition of having federal funds being made available to the states for our drugs under Medicaid and Medicare Part B. Those rebates are based on pricing data reported by us on a monthly and quarterly basis to CMS. These data include the average manufacturer price and, in the case of innovator products, the best price for each drug. Federal law requires that any company that participates in the Medicaid Drug Rebate program also participate in the Public Health Service's 340B drug pricing discount program in order for federal funds to be available for the manufacturer's drugs under Medicaid and Medicare Part B. The 340B pricing program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily defined covered entities no more than the 340B "ceiling price" for the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs. These 340B covered entities include a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the Public Health Service, as well as hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of low-income patients. The 340B ceiling price is calculated using a statutory formula, which is based on the average manufacturer price and rebate amount for the covered outpatient drug as calculated under the Medicaid Drug Rebate program. Changes to the definition of average manufacturer price and the Medicaid Drug Rebate amount under the Affordable Care Act and CMS's issuance of final regulations implementing those changes also could affect our 340B ceiling price calculations and negatively impact our results of operations. In order to be eligible to have our products paid for with federal funds under the Medicaid and Medicare Part B programs and purchased by certain federal agencies and certain federal grantees, we participate in the Department of Veterans Affairs, or VA, Federal Supply Schedule, or FSS, pricing program, established by Section 603 of the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992. Under this program, we are obligated to make our product available for procurement on an FSS contract and charge a price to four federal agencies—VA, Department of Defense, Public Health Service, and Coast Guard—that is no higher than the statutory Federal Ceiling Price, or FCP. The FCP is based on the non-federal average manufacturer price, or Non-FAMP, which we calculate and report to the VA on a quarterly and annual basis. We also participate in the Tricare Retail Pharmacy program, established by Section 703 of the National Defense Authorization Act for FY 2008, and related regulations, under which we pay quarterly rebates on utilization of innovator products that are dispensed to Tricare beneficiaries. The rebates are calculated as the difference between Annual Non-FAMP and FCP. We expect to experience pricing pressures in the United States in connection with the sale of our products due to the trend toward managed healthcare, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative proposals. In various EU countries, we expect to be subject to continuous cost-cutting measures, such as lower maximum prices, lower or lack of reimbursement coverage and incentives to use cheaper, usually generic, products as an alternative. We are unable to predict what additional legislation, regulations or policies, if any, relating to the healthcare industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation, regulations or policies would have on our business. Any cost-containment measures, including those listed above, or other healthcare system reforms that are adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate profitably. Once an applicant receives marketing authorization in an EU Member State, through any application route, the applicant is then required to engage in pricing discussions and negotiations with a separate pricing authority in that country. The legislators, policymakers and healthcare insurance funds in the EU Member States continue to propose and implement cost-containing measures to keep healthcare costs down, due in part to the attention being paid to healthcare cost-containment and other austerity measures in the EU. Certain of these changes could impose limitations on the prices pharmaceutical companies are able to charge for their products. The amounts of reimbursement 17 Table of Contents available from governmental agencies or third-party payors for these products may increase the tax obligations on pharmaceutical companies such as ours, or may facilitate the introduction of generic competition with respect to our products. Furthermore, an increasing number of EU Member States and other foreign countries use prices for medicinal products established in other countries as "reference prices" to help determine the price of the product in their own territory. Consequently, a downward trend in prices of medicinal products in some countries could contribute to similar downward trends elsewhere. In addition, the ongoing budgetary difficulties faced by a number of EU Member States, including Greece and Spain, have led and may continue to lead to substantial delays in payment and payment partially with government bonds rather than cash for medicinal products, which could negatively impact our revenues and profitability. Moreover, in order to obtain reimbursement of our medicinal products in some countries, including some EU Member States, we may be required to conduct clinical trials that compare the cost-effectiveness of our products to other available therapies. There can be no assurance that our medicinal products will obtain favorable reimbursement status in any country. Fraud and Abuse Laws The healthcare industry, and thus our business, is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign regulation. Some of the pertinent laws have not been definitively interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. In addition, these laws and their interpretations are subject to change. Both federal and state governmental agencies continue to subject the healthcare industry to intense regulatory scrutiny, including heightened civil and criminal enforcement efforts. The restrictions under applicable federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations that may affect our ability to operate include, but are not limited to: •the federal Anti-Kickback Law, which prohibits, among other things, knowingly or willingly offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward the purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for or recommending the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare items or service for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, by federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical companies on one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Further, the Affordable Care Act, among other things, clarified that a person or entity needs not to have actual knowledge of the federal Anti-Kickback statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, the Affordable Care Act amended the Social Security Act to provide that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Law constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal civil False Claims Act. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors to the federal Anti-Kickback Law protecting certain common business arrangements and activities from prosecution or regulatory sanctions, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that do not fit squarely within an exemption or safe harbor may be subject to scrutiny. We seek to comply with the exemptions and safe harbors whenever possible, but our practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability; •the federal civil False Claims Act, which prohibits, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment of government funds or knowingly making, using or causing to be made or used, a false record or statement material to an obligation to pay money to the government or knowingly concealing or knowingly and improperly avoiding, decreasing, or concealing an obligation to pay money to the federal government. Many pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been 18 Table of Contents investigated and have reached substantial financial settlements with the federal government under the civil False Claims Act for a variety of alleged improper marketing activities, including providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; providing consulting fees, grants, free travel, and other benefits to physicians to induce them to prescribe the company's products; and inflating prices reported to private price publication services, which are used to set drug payment rates under government healthcare programs. In addition, in recent years the government has pursued civil False Claims Act cases against a number of pharmaceutical companies for causing false claims to be submitted as a result of the marketing of their products for unapproved, and thus non-reimbursable, uses. Pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies also are subject to other federal false claim laws, including, among others, federal criminal healthcare fraud and false statement statutes that extend to non-government health benefit programs; •numerous federal and state laws, including state security breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws and federal and state consumer protection laws, govern the collection, use and disclosure of personal information. Other countries also have, or are developing, laws governing the collection, use and transmission of personal information. In addition, most healthcare providers who prescribe our product and from whom we obtain patient health information are subject to privacy and security requirements under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA. We are not a HIPAA-covered entity and we do not operate as a business associate to any covered entities. Therefore, these privacy and security requirements do not apply to us. However, we could be subject to criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain individually identifiable health information from a covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by HIPAA or for aiding and abetting the violation of HIPAA. We are unable to predict whether our actions could be subject to prosecution in the event of an impermissible disclosure of health information to us. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect our business, including recently enacted laws in a majority of states requiring security breach notification. These laws could create liability for us or increase our cost of doing business; •analogous state laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, may apply to items or services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. Some state laws also require pharmaceutical companies to report expenses relating to the marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products and to report gifts and payments to individual physicians in the states. Other states prohibit providing meals to prescribers or other marketing-related activities. In addition, California, Connecticut, Nevada, and Massachusetts require pharmaceutical companies to implement compliance programs or marketing codes of conduct. Additional states are considering or recently have considered similar proposals. Foreign governments often have similar regulations, which we also will be subject to in those countries where we market and sell products; •the federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act, being implemented as the Open Payments Program, requires certain pharmaceutical manufacturers to engage in extensive tracking of payments or transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals, maintenance of a payments database, and public reporting of the payment data. Pharmaceutical manufacturers with products for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the State Children's Health Insurance Program are required to track and report such payments. CMS recently issued a final rule implementing the Physician Payment Sunshine Act provisions and clarified the scope of the reporting obligations, as well as that applicable manufacturers must begin tracking on August 1, 2013, and must report payment data to CMS by March 31, 2014, and annually thereafter; and 19 Table of Contents •the federal Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1997 and other similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from providing money or anything of value to officials of foreign governments, foreign political parties, or international organizations with the intent to obtain or retain business or seek a business advantage. Recently, there has been a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity by U.S. regulators, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the Department of Justice and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. A determination that our operations or activities are not, or were not, in compliance with United States or foreign laws or regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, interruptions of business, loss of supplier, vendor or other third-party relationships, termination of necessary licenses and permits, and other legal or equitable sanctions. Other internal or government investigations or legal or regulatory proceedings, including lawsuits brought by private litigants, may also follow as a consequence. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government-funded healthcare programs, like Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Although compliance programs can mitigate the risk of investigation and prosecution for violations of these laws, the risks cannot be entirely eliminated. Any action against us for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable federal and state privacy, security and fraud laws may prove costly. Collaboration Agreements Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation In January 2001, we entered into an exclusive development, license and clinical trial and commercial supply agreement with Tanabe Seiyaku Co., Ltd., now Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, or MTPC, for the development and commercialization of avanafil, a PDE5 inhibitor compound for the oral and local treatment of male and female sexual dysfunction. Under the terms of the agreement, MTPC agreed to grant an exclusive license to us for products containing avanafil outside of Japan, North Korea, South Korea, China, Taiwan, Singapore, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Vietnam and the Philippines. We agreed to grant MTPC an exclusive, royalty-free license within those countries for oral products that we develop containing avanafil. In addition, we agreed to grant MTPC an exclusive option to obtain an exclusive, royalty-bearing license within those countries for non-oral products that we develop containing avanafil. MTPC agreed to manufacture and supply us with avanafil for use in clinical trials, which were our primary responsibility. The MTPC agreement contains a number of milestone payments to be made by us based on various triggering events. Through December 31, 2013, under the terms of the MTPC agreement, we have paid a total of $15.0 million in milestone payments to MTPC, including $2.0 million in 2013, upon the grant of a marketing authorization for SPEDRA (avanafil) in the EU and $3.0 million in 2012, upon FDA approval of STENDRA (avanafil) in the U.S. In addition, during 2013 and 2012, we purchased $9.9 million and $7.4 million of product, respectively, from MTPC under the supply portion of the Agreement in preparation for the commercial launch in the U.S., the EU and certain other territories that use the U.S. approval and EU marketing authorization. We expect to make other substantial payments to MTPC in accordance with the MTPC agreement as we continue to commercialize avanafil for the oral treatment of male sexual dysfunction in our territories. Potential future milestone payments include $6.0 million upon the achievement of $250.0 million or more in worldwide net sales during any calendar year. 20 Table of Contents The term of the MTPC agreement is based on a country-by-country and on a product-by-product basis. The term shall continue until the later of (i) 10 years after the date of the first sale for a particular product, or (ii) the expiration of the last-to-expire patents within the MTPC patents covering such product in such country. In the event that our product is deemed to be (i) insufficiently effective or insufficiently safe relative to other PDE5 inhibitor compounds based on published information, or (ii) not economically feasible to develop due to unforeseen regulatory hurdles or costs as measured by standards common in the pharmaceutical industry for this type of product, we have the right to terminate the agreement with MTPC with respect to such product. In August 2012, we entered into an amendment to our agreement with MTPC that permits us to manufacture the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, and tablets for STENDRA ourselves or through third parties. According to the amendment, the transition of manufacturing from MTPC must occur on or before June 30, 2015. On February 21, 2013, we entered into the third amendment to our agreement with MTPC which, among other things, expands our rights, or those of our sublicensees, to enforce the patents licensed under the MTPC agreement against alleged infringement, and clarifies the rights and duties of the parties and our sublicensees upon termination of the MTPC agreement. In addition, we were obligated to use our best commercial efforts to market STENDRA in the U.S. by December 31, 2013, which was achieved by our commercialization partner, Auxilium. On July 23, 2013, we entered into the fourth amendment to our agreement with MTPC which, among other things, changes the definition of net sales used to calculate royalties owed by us to MTPC. Menarini Group On July 5, 2013, we entered into a license and commercialization agreement, or the Menarini License Agreement, and a supply agreement, or the Menarini Supply Agreement, with the Menarini Group through its subsidiary Berlin-Chemie AG, or Menarini. Under the terms of the Menarini License Agreement, Menarini received an exclusive license to commercialize and promote our drug SPEDRA™ (avanafil) for the treatment of erectile dysfunction in over 40 European countries, including the EU, plus Australia and New Zealand. Additionally, we agreed to transfer to Menarini ownership of the marketing authorization for SPEDRA in the EU for the treatment of erectile dysfunction, which was granted by the European Commission in June 2013. Each party agreed not to develop, commercialize, or in-license any other product that operates as phosphodiesterase type-5 inhibitor for the treatment of erectile dysfunction for a limited time period, subject to certain exceptions. We are entitled to receive upfront payments, and various approval and sales milestones, plus royalties on SPEDRA sales. Menarini will also reimburse us for payments made to cover various obligations to MTPC during the term of the Menarini License Agreement. The Menarini License Agreement will terminate on a country-by-country basis in the relevant territories upon the latest to occur of the following: (i) the expiration of the last-to-expire valid VIVUS patent covering SPEDRA; (ii) the expiration of data protection covering SPEDRA; or (iii) ten (10) years after the SPEDRA product launch. In addition, Menarini may terminate the Menarini License Agreement if certain additional regulatory obligations are imposed on SPEDRA, and we may terminate the Menarini License Agreement if Menarini challenges our patents covering SPEDRA or if Menarini commits certain legal violations. Either party may terminate the Menarini License Agreement for the other party's uncured material breach or bankruptcy. Under the terms of the Menarini Supply Agreement, we will supply Menarini with STENDRA drug product until December 31, 2018, at the latest. Menarini also has the right to manufacture STENDRA independently, provided that it continues to satisfy certain minimum purchase obligations 21 Table of Contents to us. Following the expiration of the Menarini Supply Agreement, Menarini will be responsible for its own supply of STENDRA. Either party may terminate the Menarini Supply Agreement for the other party's uncured material breach or bankruptcy, or upon the termination of the Menarini License Agreement. Auxilium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. On October 10, 2013, we entered into a license and commercialization agreement, or the Auxilium License Agreement, and a commercial supply agreement, or the Auxilium Supply Agreement, with Auxilium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Auxilium. Under the terms of the Auxilium License Agreement, Auxilium received an exclusive license to commercialize and promote our drug STENDRA for the treatment of ED in the United States and Canada and their respective territories, or the Auxilium Territory. Additionally, following the completion of certain events, we have agreed to transfer to Auxilium ownership of the product marketing authorization for STENDRA for the treatment of erectile dysfunction, which was granted by the FDA in April 2012. Each party agreed not to develop, commercialize, or in-license any other product that operates as a PDE-5 inhibitor for the treatment of erectile dysfunction in the Auxilium Territory for a limited time period, subject to certain exceptions. A PDE-5 inhibitor means any product that operates as a phosphodiesterase type-5 inhibitor. We received an upfront license fee of $30.0 million in October 2013, and are eligible to receive various milestone payments, plus royalty payments on STENDRA sales. We are also eligible to receive a regulatory milestone payment of $15.0 million upon approval by the FDA of a specific time of onset claim for STENDRA in the Auxilium Territory. In addition, we are eligible to receive up to an aggregate of $255.0 million in potential milestone payments based on certain net sales targets by Auxilium. Further, we will receive royalty payments based on tiered percentages of the aggregate annual net sales of STENDRA in the Auxilium Territory on a quarterly basis. The percentage of Auxilium's aggregate annual net sales to be paid to us increases in accordance with the achievement of specific thresholds of aggregate annual net sales of STENDRA in the Auxilium Territory. If Auxilium's net sales of STENDRA in a country are reduced by certain amounts following the entry of a generic product to the market, royalty payments will be reduced by certain percentages based on such reductions. Auxilium will also reimburse us for payments made to cover various obligations to MTPC during the term of the Auxilium License Agreement. Auxilium will receive an exclusive license, with a right to sublicense, subject to certain limitations, under certain of our trademarks, including STENDRA, to market, sell and distribute STENDRA for the treatment of ED in the Auxilium Territory. In addition, Auxilium will receive an exclusive license, with a right to sublicense, subject to certain limitations, under certain of our patents and know-how (i) to use, distribute, import, promote, market, sell, offer for sale and otherwise commercialize STENDRA for the treatment of erectile dysfunction in the Auxilium Territory; (ii) to make and have made STENDRA anywhere in the world, with certain exceptions, where STENDRA is solely for use or sale for the treatment of erectile dysfunction in the Auxilium Territory; and (iii) to conduct certain development activities on STENDRA for the treatment of erectile dysfunction in support of obtaining regulatory approval in the Auxilium Territory. Auxilium will obtain STENDRA exclusively from us for a mutually agreed term pursuant to the Auxilium Supply Agreement, as further described below. Auxilium may elect to transfer the control of the supply chain for STENDRA for the Auxilium Territory to itself or its designee by assigning to Auxilium our agreements with the contract manufacturer, which is referred to below as the Supply Chain Transfer. At our sole cost and expense, we will be responsible for preparing and filing with the FDA the appropriate documents to obtain a label expansion for STENDRA referencing a specific time of onset 22 Table of Contents claim. We will use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain approval of such label expansion filing. Further, we will be responsible for conducting any post-regulatory studies of STENDRA that are required by the FDA in the Auxilium Territory. Such costs will be split equally between the parties up to a specified amount and then once the specified amount is reached, we shall be solely responsible for the remainder of the costs. The Auxilium License Agreement will terminate on a country-by-country basis upon the later to occur of the following: (a) ten (10) years after the STENDRA product launch in such country; or (b) the expiration of the last-to-expire patents within our patents covering STENDRA in such country. In addition, Auxilium may terminate the Auxilium License Agreement (i) for any reason following the one (1) year anniversary of the STENDRA launch in the U.S upon one hundred eighty (180) days written notice, and (ii) upon the entry of a generic avanafil product into the market upon thirty (30) days written notice. We may terminate the Auxilium License Agreement (i) immediately upon written notice to Auxilium if Auxilium is excluded from participation in the U.S. federal healthcare programs and fails to cure such exclusion within one hundred twenty (120) days, and (ii) if Auxilium challenges the VIVUS patents covering STENDRA upon written notice to Auxilium. Either party may terminate the Auxilium License Agreement for the other party's uncured material breach or bankruptcy. Under the terms of the Auxilium Supply Agreement, we will supply Auxilium with STENDRA drug product until December 31, 2018, at the latest. For 2015, and each subsequent year during the term of the Auxilium Supply Agreement, if Auxilium fails to purchase an agreed minimum purchase amount of STENDRA from us, it will reimburse us for the shortfall as it relates to our out-of-pocket costs to acquire certain raw materials needed to manufacture STENDRA. Either party may terminate the Auxilium Supply Agreement for the other party's uncured material breach or bankruptcy, or upon the termination of the License Agreement. The Auxilium Supply Agreement will automatically terminate upon completion of the Supply Chain Transfer, as described above. Sanofi On December 11, 2013, we entered into a license and commercialization agreement, or the Sanofi License Agreement, with Sanofi. Effective as of December 11, 2013, we entered into a supply agreement, or the Sanofi Supply Agreement, with Sanofi Winthrop Industrie, a wholly owned subsidiary of Sanofi. Under the terms of the Sanofi License Agreement, Sanofi received an exclusive license to commercialize and promote VIVUS's drug avanafil for therapeutic use in humans in Africa, the Middle East—Turkey and Eurasia, or the Sanofi Territory. During the term of the License Agreement, each party agreed not to develop, commercialize, or in-license any other product that operates as a phosphodiesterase type-5 inhibitor for therapeutic use in humans in the Sanofi Territory for a limited time period, subject to certain exceptions. In December 2013, we received an upfront license fee of $5.0 million and a $1.5 million manufacturing milestone payment. We are also eligible to receive up to an additional $3.5 million in manufacturing milestone payments, up to $6.0 million in regulatory milestone payments, and up to $45.0 million in sales milestone payments, plus royalties on avanafil sales based on tiered percentages of the aggregate annual net sales in the Sanofi Territory. Sanofi will also reimburse us for a portion of any sales milestone paid by us to MTPC based on the share of Sanofi's net sales in the total worldwide net sales amount triggering the payment of such sales milestone. Royalty payment obligations under the Sanofi License Agreement will be payable for avanafil in each country in the Sanofi Territory until the later to occur of (i) the expiration of the last-to-expire valid claim within the VIVUS patents that, absent the licenses granted to Sanofi under the Sanofi License Agreement, would be infringed by the sale of avanafil in such country, and (ii) December 11, 23 Table of Contents 2029, or the Sanofi Royalty Payment Term. The Sanofi License Agreement will terminate as follows: (i) as to avanafil in each country in the Sanofi Territory, upon the expiration of the Sanofi Royalty Payment Term with respect to avanafil in such country, provided however, that Sanofi's obligation to reimburse us for Sanofi's pro-rata share of any sales milestone paid by us to MTPC will survive if such sales milestone has not yet come due; and (ii) in its entirety, upon the expiration of all royalty payment obligations arising under the Sanofi License Agreement in all countries in the Sanofi Territory. In addition, we may terminate the Sanofi License Agreement immediately upon written notice to Sanofi on a country-by-country basis if Sanofi becomes subject to certain regulatory actions or legal restrictions. We may also terminate the Sanofi License Agreement in its entirety upon written notice to Sanofi if Sanofi or any affiliate commences any action or proceeding that challenges the validity, enforceability or scope of any VIVUS patent in the Sanofi Territory or any country outside of the Sanofi Territory, or if a similar action is instituted by a sublicensee and Sanofi does not terminate the sublicense after being aware of such action for a specified period. Further, Sanofi may terminate the Sanofi License Agreement in whole or on a country-by-country basis for convenience at any time upon advance notice to us. Either party may terminate the Sanofi License Agreement for the other party's uncured material breach, or bankruptcy or related actions or proceedings. In the event of an uncured material breach by us, Sanofi may, in lieu of terminating the Sanofi License Agreement in its entirety, elect to continue the Sanofi License Agreement in full force and effect except (i) we will have no further rights to receive certain commercialization reports, and (ii) Sanofi may set off any payments or amounts due by Sanofi but not yet paid to us against all direct and undisputed damages suffered by Sanofi as a result of the breach. Under the terms of the Sanofi Supply Agreement, we will supply Sanofi Winthrop Industrie with avanafil tablets until June 30, 2015, or in the event the obligations of MTPC to supply avanafil tablets to us are amended to extend beyond June 30, 2015, then until the expiration of the MTPC supply obligations as amended. Either party may terminate the Sanofi Supply Agreement for (i) the other party's uncured material breach or (ii) bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation or certain receivership proceedings, or certain proceedings for reorganization under bankruptcy or comparable laws. In addition, the Sanofi Supply Agreement will automatically terminate upon the termination of the Sanofi License Agreement. On July 31, 2013, we entered into a Commercial Supply Agreement with Sanofi Chimie to manufacture and supply the API for our drug avanafil on an exclusive basis in the United States and other territories and on a semi-exclusive basis in Europe, including the EU, Latin America and other territories. On November 18, 2013, we entered into a Manufacturing and Supply Agreement with Sanofi Winthrop Industrie to manufacture and supply the avanafil tablets on an exclusive basis in the United States and other territories and on a semi-exclusive basis in Europe, including the EU, Latin America and other territories. We intend to submit an amendment to the NDA for avanafil to the FDA, and an application for the variation of the marketing authorization for avanafil to the EMA, to include Sanofi Chimie as a qualified supplier of the avanafil API and Sanofi Winthrop Industrie as a qualified supplier of the avanafil tablets. We have minimum annual purchase commitments under these agreements for at least the initial five-year terms. Other In October 2001, we entered into an assignment agreement, or the Assignment Agreement, with Thomas Najarian, M.D., for a combination of pharmaceutical agents for the treatment of obesity and other disorders, or the Combination Therapy, that has since been the focus of our investigational drug candidate development program for Qsymia for the treatment of obesity, obstructive sleep apnea and diabetes. The Combination Therapy and all related patent applications, or the Patents, were transferred to us with worldwide rights to develop and commercialize the Combination Therapy and exploit the Patents. Pursuant to the Assignment Agreement, through December 31, 2013, we have paid a total of 24 Table of Contents $1.2 million and have issued fully vested and exercisable options to purchase 60,000 shares of our common stock to Dr. Najarian. In addition, the Assignment Agreement requires us to pay royalties on worldwide net sales of a product for the treatment of obesity that is based upon the Combination Therapy and Patents until the last-to-expire of the assigned Patents. To the extent that we decide not to commercially exploit the Patents, the Assignment Agreement will terminate and the Combination Therapy and Patents will be assigned back to Dr. Najarian. In 2006, Dr. Najarian joined the Company as a part-time employee and served as a Principal Scientist. In November 2013, Dr. Najarian's employment with the Company ended although he continues to work for us on a consulting basis. Patents, Proprietary Technology and Data Exclusivity We own or are the exclusive licensee of more than 30 patents and numerous published patent applications in the U.S. and Canada. We intend to develop, maintain and secure intellectual property rights and to aggressively defend and pursue new patents to expand upon our current patent base. Our portfolio of patents as it primarily relates to Qsymia, our FDA-approved drug for the treatment of 25 Table of Contents obesity, and STENDRA, our FDA-approved drug for the treatment of erectile dysfunction, is summarized as follows: QSYMIA U.S. Patent No. 7,056,890 Expiring 06/14/2020 U.S. Patent No. 7,553,818 Expiring 06/14/2020 U.S. Patent No. 7,659,256 Expiring 06/14/2020 U.S. Patent No. 7,674,776 Expiring 06/14/2020 U.S. Patent No. 8,580,299 Expiring 06/14/2029 * U.S. Patent Publication No. 2010/0105765 A1 Pending U.S. Patent No. 8,580,298 Expiring 05/15/2029 * U.S. Patent No. 8,536,138 Expiring 06/13/2027 Canadian Patent No. 2,377,330 Expiring 06/14/2020 Canadian Patent Publication No. 2,691,991 A1 Pending Canadian Patent Publication No. 2,727,313 A1 Pending Canadian Patent Publication No. 2,727,319 A1 Pending STENDRA U.S. Patent No. 6,656,935 Expiring 09/13/2020 U.S. Patent No. 7,501,409 Expiring 05/05/2023 Canadian Patent No. 2,383,466 Expiring 09/13/2020 ERECTILE DYSFUNCTION U.S. Patent No. 5,482,039 Expiring 03/25/2014 U.S. Patent No. 5,769,088 Expiring 03/25/2014 U.S. Patent No. 5,820,587 Expiring 03/14/2015 U.S. Patent No. 5,849,803 Expiring 12/15/2015 U.S. Patent No. 5,922,341 Expiring 10/28/2017 U.S. Patent No. 5,925,629 Expiring 10/28/2017 U.S. Patent No. 6,037,346 Expiring 10/28/2017 U.S. Patent No. 6,093,181 Expiring 07/25/2017 U.S. Patent No. 6,127,363 Expiring 10/28/2017 U.S. Patent No. 6,156,753 Expiring 10/28/2017 U.S. Patent No. 6,403,597 Expiring 10/28/2017 U.S. Patent No. 6,495,154 Expiring 11/21/2020 U.S. Patent No. 6,548,490 Expiring 10/28/2017 U.S. Patent No. 6,946,141 Expiring 11/21/2020 Canadian Patent No. 2,305,394 Expiring 10/28/2018 *These expiration dates are based on the number of days of patent term adjustment, or PTA, calculated by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO. An independent calculation of PTA suggested that the patents may be entitled to fewer days of PTA than determined by the USPTO. The EU has adopted a harmonized approach to data and marketing exclusivity under Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004 and Directive 2001/83/EC. The exclusivity scheme applies to products that have been authorized in the EU by either the European Commission, through the centralized procedure, or the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Economic Area, or EEA, under the Decentralized or Mutual Recognition procedures. The approach (known as the 8+2+1 formula) permits eight years of data exclusivity and 10 years of marketing exclusivity. Within the first eight years of the 10 years, a generic applicant is not permitted to cross refer to the preclinical and clinical trial data relating to the reference product. Even if the generic product is authorized after expiry of the eight years of data exclusivity, it cannot be placed on the market until the full 10-year market 26 Table of Contents exclusivity has expired. This 10-year market exclusivity may be extended cumulatively to a maximum period of 11 years if during the first eight years of those 10 years, the marketing authorization holder obtains an authorization for a new (second) therapeutic indication which, during the scientific evaluation prior to its authorization, is held to bring a significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing therapies. In addition to the Canadian patents and applications identified in the table, we also hold foreign counterparts, patents and patent applications in major foreign jurisdictions related to our U.S. patents. We have developed and acquired exclusive rights to patented technology in support of our development and commercialization of our approved drugs and investigational drug candidates, and we rely on trade secrets and proprietary technologies in developing potential drugs. We continue to place significant emphasis on securing global intellectual property rights and are aggressively pursuing new patents to expand upon our strong foundation for commercializing investigational drug candidates in development. Manufacturing Our commercial products, Qsymia and STENDRA, together with their respective active pharmaceutical ingredients, or APIs, and finished products, as well as our clinical supplies, are manufactured on a contract basis. In addition, packaging for the commercial distribution of the Qsymia product capsules and the STENDRA product tablets is performed by contract packaging companies. We expect to continue to contract with other third-party providers for manufacturing services, including APIs, finished products, and packaging operations as needed. Although we believe that our current agreements and purchase orders with third-party manufacturers provide for sufficient operating capacity to support the anticipated commercial demand for Qsymia and STENDRA and our clinical supplies, we have only one approved contract manufacturer for each aspect of the manufacturing and packaging processes. If we are unable to obtain a sufficient supply of Qsymia or STENDRA for our commercial sales, or the clinical supplies to support our clinical trials, or if we should encounter delays or difficulties in our relationships with our manufacturers or packagers, we may lose potential sales, have difficulty entering into collaboration agreements for the commercialization of STENDRA for territories in which we do not have a commercial collaboration or our clinical trials may be delayed. The API and the tablets for STENDRA (avanafil) are currently manufactured by MTPC. MTPC has arrangements for the three main starting materials necessary for the manufacturing of avanafil API. In August 2012, we entered into an amendment to our agreement with MTPC that permits us to manufacture the API and tablets for avanafil ourselves or through third-party suppliers at any time. The transition away from MTPC supply will need to occur on or before June 2015. As indicated above, on July 31, 2013, we entered into a Commercial Supply Agreement with Sanofi Chimie, a wholly owned subsidiary of Sanofi, pursuant to which Sanofi Chimie will manufacture and supply the active pharmaceutical ingredient for our drug avanafil. Further, as indicated above, on November 18, 2013, we entered into a Manufacturing and Supply Agreement with Sanofi Winthrop Industrie, a wholly owned subsidiary of Sanofi, pursuant to which Sanofi Winthrop Industrie will manufacture and supply the tablets for our drug avanafil. We currently do not have any manufacturing facilities and intend to continue to rely on third parties for the supply of the starting materials, API and finished dosage forms (tablets and capsules). However, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in entering into additional supplier agreements or that we will be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for any suppliers in a timely manner or at all. Catalent manufactured the supply for our Phase 3b/4 program for Qsymia, and Catalent currently manufactures our clinical and commercial supplies for Qsymia. Catalent has been successful in validating the commercial manufacturing process for Qsymia at a scale that has been able to support the launch of Qsymia in the U.S. market. While Catalent has significant experience in commercial scale 27 Table of Contents manufacturing, there is no assurance that Catalent will be successful with the commercial scale manufacturing of Qsymia. We attempt to prevent disruption of supplies through supply agreements, purchase orders, appropriate forecasting, maintaining stock levels and other strategies. In the event we are unable to manufacture our products, either directly or indirectly through others or on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, we may not be able to commercialize our products as planned. Although we are taking these actions to avoid a disruption in supply, we cannot provide assurance that we may not experience a disruption in the future. Marketing and Sales We rely on PDI, Inc., or PDI, a third-party contract sales organization, to assist with the hiring of sales representatives and the promotion of Qsymia to physicians. Our internal sales management and marketing personnel manage and supervise the activities of this sales force. We depend on the success of PDI in performing its services, and we cannot be certain PDI will cooperate with us to perform its obligations under the agreement. Although they are contractually obligated, we cannot control the amount of resources that will be devoted by PDI to the promotion of Qsymia. Any failure of PDI to perform its obligations or delay in allocating resources to the promotion of Qsymia could adversely affect the commercialization of Qsymia and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Qsymia Distribution and REMS We rely on Cardinal Health 105, Inc., or Cardinal Health, a third-party distribution and supply-chain management company, to warehouse Qsymia and distribute it to the certified home delivery pharmacies and wholesalers that then distribute Qsymia directly to patients and certified retail pharmacies. Cardinal Health provides billing, collection and returns services. Cardinal Health is our exclusive supplier of distribution logistics services, and accordingly we depend on Cardinal Health to satisfactorily perform its obligations under our agreement with them. Pursuant to the REMS program applicable to Qsymia, our distribution network is through a small number of certified home delivery pharmacies and wholesalers and through a broader network of certified retail pharmacies. We have contracted through a third-party vendor to certify the retail pharmacies and collect required data to support the Qsymia REMS program. In addition to providing services to support the distribution and use of Qsymia, each of the certified pharmacies has agreed to comply with the REMS program requirements and, through our third-party data collection vendor, will provide us with the necessary patient and prescribing healthcare provider, or HCP, data. In addition, we have contracted with third-party data warehouses to store this patient and HCP data and report it to us. We rely on this third-party data in order to recognize revenue and comply with the REMS requirements for Qsymia, such as data analysis. This distribution and data collection network requires significant coordination with our sales and marketing, finance, regulatory and medical affairs teams, in light of the REMS requirements applicable to Qsymia. Competition Competition in the pharmaceutical and medical products industries is intense and is characterized by costly and extensive research efforts and rapid technological progress. We are aware of several pharmaceutical companies also actively engaged in the development of therapies for the treatment of obesity, diabetes and sexual health and medical device companies engaged in the development of therapies for the treatment of sleep apnea. Many of these companies have substantially greater research and development capabilities as well as substantially greater marketing, financial and human resources than VIVUS. Our competitors may develop technologies and products that are more effective 28 Table of Contents than those we are currently marketing or researching and developing. Some of the drugs that may compete with Qsymia may not have a REMS requirement and the accompanying complexities such a requirement presents. Such developments could render Qsymia and STENDRA less competitive or possibly obsolete. We are also competing with respect to marketing capabilities and manufacturing efficiency, areas in which we have limited experience. Qsymia for the treatment of chronic weight management competes with several approved anti-obesity drugs including, Belviq® (lorcaserin), Arena Pharmaceutical's anti-obesity compound being marketed by Eisai Inc., Eisai Co., Ltd.'s U.S. subsidiary; Xenical® (orlistat), marketed by Roche; alli®, the over-the-counter version of orlistat, marketed by GlaxoSmithKline; and Suprenza™ (phentermine hydrochloride), marketed by Akrimax Pharmaceuticals, LLC. In addition, Orexigen Therapeutics, Inc., or Orexigen, has an investigational drug under review at the FDA known as Contrave® (naltrexone/bupropion) which, according to Orexigen, could be approved and on the market in the U.S. in 2014. The company recently announced a PDUFA date of June 10, 2014, and has also expressed confidence in achieving a potential marketing authorization by the European Commission by year-end 2014. If approved, Contrave will be marketed by Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited. There are also several drugs in development for obesity, including an investigational drug candidate, liraglutide, in Phase 3 clinical trials being developed by Novo Nordisk A/S. Victoza (liraglutide) is approved by the FDA for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. The approved doses are 1.2mg and 1.8mg in the U.S. and EU while Victoza 3.0mg is being developed for the treatment of obesity. Newer agents recently approved for type 2 diabetes include Invokana (canaglifozin) from Johnson & Johnson's Janssen Pharmaceuticals, an SGLT2 inhibitor that has demonstrated modest, single-digit weight loss in clinical studies. In addition, there are several other investigational drug candidates in Phase 2 clinical trials. In January 2013, Rhythm Pharmaceuticals, or Rhythm, announced the initiation of a Phase 2 clinical trial with RM-493, a small-peptide melanocortin 4 receptor, or MC4R, agonist, for the treatment of obesity. Rhythm announced in September 2013, that RM-493 is being studied in Phase 1B for the treatment of obesity in individuals with a genetic deficiency in the MC4R pathway. There are a number of generic pharmaceutical drugs that are prescribed for obesity, predominantly phentermine, which is sold at much lower prices than we charge for Qsymia and is also widely available in retail pharmacies. The availability of branded prescription drugs, generic drugs and over-the-counter drugs could limit the demand and the price we are able to charge for Qsymia. We may also face competition from the off-label use of the generic components in our drugs. In particular, it is possible that patients will seek to acquire phentermine and topiramate, the generic components of Qsymia. Neither of these generic components has a REMS program and both are available at retail pharmacies. Although the dosage strength of these generic components has not been approved by the FDA for use in the treatment of obesity, the off-label use of the generic components in the U.S. or the importation of the generic components from foreign markets could adversely affect the commercial potential for our drugs and adversely affect our overall business, financial condition and results of operations. Qsymia and STENDRA may also face challenges and competition from newly developed generic products. Under the U.S. Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, known as the Hatch-Waxman Act, newly approved drugs and indications may benefit from a statutory period of non-patent marketing exclusivity. The Hatch-Waxman Act stimulates competition by providing incentives to generic pharmaceutical manufacturers to introduce non-infringing forms of patented pharmaceutical products and to challenge patents on branded pharmaceutical products. If we are unsuccessful in challenging an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, filed pursuant to the Hatch-Waxman Act, a generic version of Qsymia or STENDRA may be launched, which would harm our business. 29 Table of Contents There are also surgical approaches to treat severe obesity that are becoming increasingly accepted. Two of the most well-established surgical procedures are gastric bypass surgery and adjustable gastric banding, or lap bands. In February 2011, the FDA approved the use of a lap band in patients with a BMI of 30 (reduced from 35) with comorbidities. The lowering of the BMI requirement will make more obese patients eligible for lap band surgery. In addition, other potential approaches that utilize various implantable devices or surgical tools are in development. Some of these approaches are in late-stage development and may be approved for marketing. We anticipate that STENDRA (avanafil) for the treatment of ED will compete with PDE5 inhibitors in the form of oral medications including Viagra® (sildenafil citrate), marketed by Pfizer, Inc.; Cialis® (tadalafil), marketed by Eli Lilly and Company; Levitra® (vardenafil), co-marketed by GlaxoSmithKline plc and Schering-Plough Corporation in the U.S.; and STAXYN® (vardenafil in an oral disintegrating tablet, or ODT), co-promoted by GlaxoSmithKline plc and Merck & Co., Inc. As patents for the three major PDE5 inhibitors, sildenafil citrate, tadalafil and vardenafil, expire beginning in 2017, we anticipate that generic PDE5 inhibitors will enter the market. Generic PDE5 inhibitors would likely be sold at lower prices and may reduce the demand for STENDRA especially at the prices we would be required to charge for STENDRA to cover our manufacturing and other costs. In addition, PDE5 inhibitors are in various stages of development by other companies. Warner-Chilcott plc has licensed the U.S. rights to udenafil, a PDE5 inhibitor from Dong-A Pharmaceutical. Warner-Chilcott continues Phase 3 development of this compound. Other treatments for ED exist, such as needle injection therapies, vacuum constriction devices and penile implants, and the manufacturers of these products will most likely continue to develop or improve these therapies. New developments, including the development of other drug technologies and methods of preventing the incidence of disease, occur in the pharmaceutical and medical technology industries at a rapid pace. These developments may render our drugs and future investigational drug candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. Compared to us, many of our potential competitors have substantially greater: •research and development resources, including personnel and technology; •regulatory experience; •investigational drug candidate development and clinical trial experience; •experience and expertise in exploitation of intellectual property rights; and •access to strategic partners and capital resources. As a result of these factors, our competitors may obtain regulatory approval of their products more rapidly than we or may obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limit our ability to develop or commercialize our investigational drug candidates. Our competitors may also develop drugs or surgical approaches that are more effective, more useful and less costly than ours and may also be more successful in manufacturing and marketing their products. In addition, our competitors may be more effective in commercializing their products. We currently outsource our manufacturing and therefore rely on third parties for that competitive expertise. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop or contract for these capabilities on acceptable economic terms, or at all. Avanafil qualifies as an innovative medicinal product in the EU. Innovative medicinal products authorized in the EU on the basis of a full marketing authorization application (as opposed to an application for marketing authorization that relies on data in the marketing authorization dossier for another, previously approved medicinal product) are entitled to eight years' data exclusivity. During this period, applicants for approval of generics of these innovative products cannot rely on data contained in the marketing authorization dossier submitted for the innovative medicinal product. Innovative 30 Table of Contents medicinal products are also entitled to 10 years' market exclusivity. During this 10-year period no generic medicinal product can be placed on the EU market. The 10-year period of market exclusivity can be extended to a maximum of 11 years if, during the first eight years of those 10 years, the Marketing Authorization Holder for the innovative product obtains an authorization for one or more new therapeutic indications which, during the scientific evaluation prior to their authorization, are held to bring a significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing therapies. If we do not obtain extended patent protection and data exclusivity for our product candidates, our business may be materially harmed. Research and Development We incurred $29.7 million in 2013, $32.1 million in 2012, and $24.6 million in 2011, in research and development expenses, primarily to support the approval efforts and clinical programs for Qsymia and STENDRA. Employees As of February 19, 2014, we had 98 employees located at our corporate headquarters in Mountain View, California, and in the field. None of our current employees are represented by a labor union or are the subject of a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that our relations with our employees are good, and we have never experienced a work stoppage at any of our facilities. Insurance We maintain product liability insurance for our clinical trials and commercial sales and general liability and directors' and officers' liability insurance for our operations. Insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive and no assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. Although we have obtained product liability insurance coverage for Qsymia, we may be unable to maintain this product liability coverage for Qsymia or any other of our approved drugs in amounts or scope sufficient to provide us with adequate coverage against all potential risks. Geographic Area Financial Information For financial information concerning the geographic areas in which we operate, see Note 17: "Segment Information and Concentration of Customers and Suppliers—Geographic Information" to our Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Available Information Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available on our website at www.vivus.com, when such reports are available on the SEC website. Copies of our annual report will be made available, free of charge, upon written request. The public may read and copy any materials filed by VIVUS with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, VIVUS's references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 31 Table of Contents In addition, information regarding our code of ethics and the charters of our Audit, Compensation, and Nominating and Governance Committees are available free of charge on our website listed above, or in print upon written request. Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These are not the only risks and uncertainties facing VIVUS. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Risks Relating to our Business Changes to our management and strategic business plan may cause uncertainty regarding the future of our business, and may adversely impact employee hiring and retention, our stock price, and our revenue, operating results, and financial condition. In July 2013, we announced changes to our Board and management. In September and November 2013, and January 2014, we announced further changes to our management team. In November 2013, we announced a reduction in force of approximately 17%, the decision of our Chief Financial Officer to exercise his right to terminate his employment for Good Reason (as defined in his Amended and Restated Change of Control and Severance Agreement with the Company, effective as of July 1, 2013), and the appointment of our Corporate Controller as the Company's interim Chief Financial Officer. In January 2014, we announced that our Chief Executive Officer was assuming the duties and responsibilities of the Company's Chief Commercial Officer. The implementation of these changes, including the recent appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer and interim Chief Financial Officer, the expansion of our Board to include predominantly new members, the resignation of our President, the decision of our Chief Financial Officer to exercise his right to terminate his employment for Good Reason, the assumption of the Chief Commercial Officer's duties and responsibilities by the Chief Executive Officer, and the potential for additional changes to our management, organizational structure and strategic business plan, may cause speculation and uncertainty regarding our future business strategy and direction. These changes may cause or result in: •disruption of our business or distraction of our employees and management; •difficulty in recruiting, hiring, motivating and retaining talented and skilled personnel; •stock price volatility; and •difficulty in negotiating, maintaining or consummating business or strategic relationships or transactions. If we are unable to mitigate these or other potential risks, our revenue, operating results and financial condition may be adversely impacted. Our success will depend on our ability to effectively and profitably commercialize Qsymia®. Our success will depend on our ability to effectively and profitably commercialize Qsymia, which will include our ability to: •expand the use of Qsymia through targeted patient and physician education; •find the right partner for expanded Qsymia commercial promotion to a broader primary care physician audience; 32 Table of Contents •obtain marketing authorization by the European Commission for Qsiva™ in the EU through the centralized procedure; •manage our alliances with Auxilium, Menarini and Sanofi, to help ensure the commercial success of avanafil; •manage costs; •continue to certify and add to the Qsymia retail pharmacy network nationwide and sell Qsymia through this network; •improve third-party payor coverage, lower out-of-pocket costs to patients with discount programs, and change public policy to obtain coverage for obesity under Medicare Part D; •create market demand for Qsymia through patient and physician education, marketing and sales activities; •achieve market acceptance and generate product sales; •comply with the post-marketing requirements established by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, including Qsymia's Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, any future changes to the REMS, and any other requirements established by the FDA in the future; •conduct the post-marketing studies required by the FDA; •comply with other healthcare regulatory requirements; •maintain and defend our patents, if challenged; •ensure that the active pharmaceutical ingredients, or APIs, for Qsymia and the finished product are manufactured in sufficient quantities and in compliance with requirements of the FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies and with an acceptable quality and pricing level in order to meet commercial demand; and •ensure that the entire supply chain for Qsymia, from APIs to finished product, efficiently and consistently delivers Qsymia to our customers. Prior to the commercialization of Qsymia, we have not had any commercial products since the divestiture of MUSE® in November 2010. While our management and key personnel have significant experience developing, launching and commercializing drugs at VIVUS and at other companies, we have only recently begun to work together to commercialize Qsymia and we cannot be certain that we will be successful. If we are unable to successfully commercialize Qsymia, our ability to generate product sales will be severely limited, which will have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, we rely on a third-party contract sales organization, PDI, to assist with the hiring of sales representatives and the promotion of Qsymia to physicians. We depend on the success of PDI in performing its services, and we cannot be certain PDI will cooperate with us to perform its obligations under the agreement. Although they are contractually obligated, we cannot control the amount of resources that will be devoted by PDI to the promotion of Qsymia. Any failure of PDI to perform its obligations, or delay in allocating resources to the promotion of Qsymia, could adversely affect the commercialization of Qsymia and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not fully realize the anticipated benefits from a cost reduction plan we announced in November 2013. On November 5, 2013, we announced a cost reduction plan to eliminate expenses that are not essential to expanding the use of Qsymia. The plan reduced our workforce by approximately 20 employees, not including our sales force. We substantially completed this cost reduction plan by 33 Table of Contents December 31, 2013, and incurred pre-tax non-recurring charges of $8.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2013, including approximately $5.7 million in employee termination costs, $1.3 million in non-cash share-based compensation expense related to the automatic acceleration of vesting of unvested stock options held by the terminated employees, and $1.0 million in facilities and other lease exit costs. We expect to realize approximately $6 million to $8 million in annual net cost savings beginning in fiscal year 2014. Our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from this cost reduction plan within the expected timeframe are subject to many estimates and assumptions, and the actual savings and timing for those savings may vary materially based on factors such as negotiations with third parties and operational requirements. These estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will fully realize the anticipated benefits from this cost reduction plan. To the extent that we are unable to successfully implement our business plan, further cost reduction measures may be required in the future. We depend on our collaboration partner Auxilium to market and sell STENDRA™ (avanafil) in the United States and Canada, our collaboration partner Sanofi to gain approval, market, and sell avanafil in Africa, the Middle East, Turkey, and the Commonwealth of Independent States, and our collaboration partner Menarini to market and sell SPEDRA™ (avanafil) in over 40 European countries, including the EU, plus Australia and New Zealand. On December 11, 2013, we entered into a License and Commercialization Agreement with Sanofi under which Sanofi received an exclusive license to commercialize and promote avanafil for therapeutic use in humans in Africa, the Middle East, Turkey, and the Commonwealth of Independent States, or CIS, including Russia. Sanofi will be responsible for obtaining regulatory approval in its territories. Sanofi intends to market avanafil under the trade name SPEDRA™ or STENDRA™. On October 10, 2013, we entered into a License and Commercialization Agreement with Auxilium under which Auxilium received an exclusive license to commercialize and promote STENDRA for the treatment of ED in the United States and Canada. On July 5, 2013, we entered into a License and Commercialization Agreement with Menarini under which Menarini received an exclusive license to commercialize and promote SPEDRA for the treatment of ED in over 40 European countries, including the EU, plus Australia and New Zealand. We are relying on our collaboration partners, Auxilium, Menarini, and Sanofi to successfully commercialize STENDRA or SPEDRA in their respective territories, inclusive of obtaining any necessary approvals. There can be no assurances that these collaboration partners will be successful in doing so. In general, we cannot control the amount and timing of resources that our collaboration partners devote to the commercialization of our drugs. If any of our collaboration partners fails to successfully commercialize our drug products, our business may be negatively affected. For example, if Sanofi, Auxilium or Menarini do not successfully commercialize STENDRA or SPEDRA, we may receive limited or no revenues under our agreements with them. Additionally, because we lack the resources and experience to commercialize STENDRA or SPEDRA ourselves in these territories, we would need to seek replacement licensees to undertake these commercialization efforts. We may be unable to find other licensees in a timely manner, which could delay or impair our ability to commercialize STENDRA or SPEDRA in these territories. Under our license agreement with Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, or MTPC, we are obligated to ensure that Sanofi, Auxilium and Menarini, as sublicensees, comply with its terms and conditions. MTPC has the right to terminate our license rights to avanafil in the event of any uncured material breach of the license agreement. Consequently, failure by Sanofi, Auxilium or Menarini to comply with these terms and conditions could result in termination of our license rights to avanafil on a worldwide basis, which could delay, impair, or preclude our ability to commercialize avanafil. 34 Table of Contents If we are unable to enter into agreements with collaborators for the territories that are not covered by our existing commercialization agreements, our ability to commercialize STENDRA in these territories may be impaired. We intend to enter into collaborative arrangements or a strategic alliance with one or more pharmaceutical partners or others to commercialize STENDRA in other territories under our license with MTPC that are not covered by our current commercial collaboration agreements. We may be unable to enter into agreements with third parties for STENDRA for these territories on favorable terms or at all, which could delay, impair, or preclude our ability to commercialize STENDRA in these territories. We depend on collaborative arrangements or strategic alliances for the commercialization of STENDRA or SPEDRA. Our dependence on collaborative arrangements or strategic alliances for the commercialization of STENDRA or SPEDRA, including our license agreements with Sanofi, Auxilium and Menarini, will subject us to a number of risks, including the following: •we may not be able to control the commercialization of our drug products in the relevant territories, including amount, timing and quality of resources that our collaborators may devote to our drug products; •our collaborators may experience financial, regulatory or operational difficulties, which may impair their ability to commercialize our drug products; •our collaborators may be required under the laws of the relevant territory to disclose our confidential information or may fail to protect our confidential information; •as a requirement of the collaborative arrangement, we may be required to relinquish important rights with respect to our drug products, such as marketing and distribution rights; •business combinations or significant changes in a collaborator's business strategy may adversely affect a collaborator's willingness or ability to satisfactorily complete its commercialization or other obligations under any collaborative arrangement; •legal disputes or disagreements may occur with one or more of our collaborators; •a collaborator could independently move forward with a competing investigational drug candidate developed either independently or in collaboration with others, including with one of our competitors; and •a collaborator could terminate the collaborative arrangement, which could negatively impact the continued commercialization of our drug products. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from marketing our products abroad. In order to market products in many foreign jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals. Approval by the FDA in the U.S. does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries. For example, while our drug SPEDRA was approved in both the U.S. and the European Union, or EU, our drug Qsymia was approved in the U.S. but Qsiva (the approved trade name for Qsymia in the EU) was not approved in the EU due to concerns over the potential cardiovascular and central nervous system effects associated with long-term use, teratogenic potential and use by patients for whom Qsiva would not have been indicated. We intend to seek approval, either directly or through our collaboration partners, for Qsymia and STENDRA in other 35 Table of Contents territories outside the United States and EU. However, we have had limited interactions with foreign regulatory authorities, and the approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional testing. Foreign regulatory approvals may not be obtained, by us or our collaboration partners responsible for obtaining approval, on a timely basis, or at all, for any of our products. The failure to receive regulatory approvals in a foreign country would prevent us from marketing and commercializing our products in that country, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We, together with Sanofi, Auxilium and Menarini in certain territories, intend to market STENDRA or SPEDRA outside the U.S. which will subject us to risks related to conducting business internationally. We, through Sanofi, Auxilium and Menarini in certain territories, intend to manufacture, market, and distribute STENDRA or SPEDRA outside the U.S. We expect that we will be subject to additional risks related to conducting business internationally, including: •different regulatory requirements for drug approvals in foreign countries; •differing U.S. and foreign drug import and export rules; •reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; •unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements; •different reimbursement systems; •economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; •compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad; •foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes; •foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenues, and other obligations incidental to doing business in another country; •workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the U.S.; •production shortages resulting from events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; •potential liability resulting from development work conducted by these distributors; and •business interruptions resulting from geopolitical actions, including war and terrorism, or natural disasters. We rely in part on a third-party contract sales organization for certain sales and marketing support services for Qsymia. We rely on PDI, Inc., or PDI, a third-party contract sales organization, to assist with the hiring of sales representatives and the promotion of Qsymia to physicians. Our internal sales and marketing personnel manage and supervise the activities of this sales force. Nevertheless, we face risks in our partial reliance on the third-party contract sales organization, including the following: •PDI may not apply the expected financial resources or required expertise to successfully promote Qsymia; •PDI may not invest in the continued development of a sales force and the related infrastructure at levels that ensure that sales of Qsymia reach their full potential; 36 Table of Contents •PDI, or its sales representatives, may not comply with applicable legal or regulatory requirements, including the requirement to promote drugs only for uses for which they have been approved; •disputes may arise between us and PDI, including between the contract sales representatives, who are PDI employees, and sales management, who are VIVUS employees, that may adversely affect Qsymia sales or profitability; and •PDI may enter into agreements with other parties that have products that could compete with Qsymia. We depend on the success of PDI in performing its services, and we cannot be certain PDI will cooperate with us to perform its obligations under the agreement. Although they are contractually obligated, we cannot control the amount of resources that will be devoted by PDI to the promotion of Qsymia. Any failure of PDI to perform its obligations or to continue to allocate resources to the promotion of Qsymia could adversely affect the commercialization of Qsymia and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have significant inventories on hand and, in the year ended December 31, 2013, we recorded inventory impairment and commitment fees totaling $10.2 million, primarily to write off excess inventory related to Qsymia. We maintain significant inventories and evaluate these inventories on a periodic basis for potential excess and obsolescence. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we recognized total charges of $10.2 million for Qsymia inventories on hand in excess of demand, plus a purchase commitment fee. The inventory impairment charges were based on our analysis of current Qsymia inventory on hand and remaining shelf life, in relation to our projected demand for the product. The current FDA-approved commercial product shelf life for Qsymia is 36 months. STENDRA is approved in the U.S. and SPEDRA in the EU, for 48 months commercial product shelf life. Our write down for excess and obsolete inventory is subjective and requires accurate forecasting of the future market demand for our products. Forecasting demand for Qsymia, a drug in the obesity market in which there had been no new FDA-approved medications in over a decade prior to 2012, and for which reimbursement from third-party payors had previously been non-existent, has been difficult. Forecasting demand for STENDRA or SPEDRA, a drug that is new to the market and has no sales history, is difficult. We will continue to evaluate our inventories on a periodic basis. The value of our inventories could be impacted if actual sales differ significantly from our estimates of future demand or if any significant unanticipated changes in future product demand or market conditions occur. Any of these events, or a combination thereof, could result in additional inventory write-downs in future periods, which could be material. Our failure to manage and maintain our distribution network for Qsymia or compliance with certain requirements of the Qsymia REMS program could compromise the commercialization of this product. We rely on Cardinal Health 105, Inc., or Cardinal Health, a third-party distribution and supply-chain management company, to warehouse Qsymia and distribute it to the certified home delivery pharmacies and wholesalers that then distribute Qsymia directly to patients and certified retail pharmacies. Cardinal Health provides billing, collection and returns services. Cardinal Health is our exclusive supplier of distribution logistics services, and accordingly we depend on Cardinal Health to satisfactorily perform its obligations under our agreement with them. 37 Table of Contents Pursuant to the REMS program applicable to Qsymia, our distribution network is through a small number of certified home delivery pharmacies and wholesalers and through a broader network of certified retail pharmacies. We have contracted through a third-party vendor to certify the retail pharmacies and collect required data to support the Qsymia REMS program. In addition to providing services to support the distribution and use of Qsymia, each of the certified pharmacies has agreed to comply with the REMS program requirements and, through our third-party data collection vendor, will provide us with the necessary patient and prescribing healthcare provider, or HCP, data. In addition, we have contracted with third-party data warehouses to store this patient and HCP data and report it to us. We rely on this third-party data in order to recognize revenue and comply with the REMS requirements for Qsymia, such as data analysis. This distribution and data collection network requires significant coordination with our sales and marketing, finance, regulatory and medical affairs teams, in light of the REMS requirements applicable to Qsymia. We rely on the certified pharmacies to implement a number of safety procedures and report certain information to our third-party REMS data collection vendor. Failure to maintain our contracts with Cardinal Health, our third-party REMS data collection vendor, or with the third-party data warehouses, or the inability or failure of any of them to adequately perform under our contracts with them, could negatively impact the distribution of Qsymia, or adversely affect our ability to comply with the REMS applicable to Qsymia. Failure to comply with a requirement of an approved REMS can result in, among other things, civil penalties, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Failure to coordinate financial systems could also negatively impact our ability to accurately report and forecast product revenue. If we are unable to effectively manage the distribution and data collection process, sales of Qsymia could be severely compromised and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. If we are unable to enter into agreements with suppliers or our suppliers fail to supply us with the APIs for our products or if we rely on sole-source suppliers, we may experience delays in commercializing our products. We currently do not have supply agreements for extended-release topiramate or phentermine, which are the active pharmaceutical ingredients, or APIs, used in Qsymia. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in entering into supply agreements on reasonable terms or at all or that we will be able to obtain or maintain the necessary regulatory approvals for these suppliers in a timely manner or at all. We anticipate that we will continue to rely on single source suppliers for phentermine and extended-release topiramate for the foreseeable future. Any production shortfall on the part of our suppliers that impairs the supply of phentermine or extended-release topiramate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to obtain a sufficient quantity of these compounds, there could be a substantial delay in successfully developing a second source supplier. An inability to continue to source product from any of these suppliers, which could be due to regulatory actions or requirements affecting the supplier, adverse financial or other strategic developments experienced by a supplier, labor disputes or shortages, unexpected demands or quality issues, could adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for Qsymia, which could adversely affect our product sales and operating results materially, which could significantly harm our business. The API and the tablets for STENDRA are currently manufactured by MTPC. MTPC has arrangements for the three main starting materials necessary for the manufacturing of avanafil API. The MTPC manufacturing sites for the API (avanafil) and STENDRA tablets have been inspected by the U.S. authorities. We do not believe the results of those inspections will have an impact on MTPC's ability to supply STENDRA. However, if MTPC is unable to receive approval from foreign regulators and maintain ongoing FDA or foreign regulatory compliance, or manufacture STENDRA's API or tablets in sufficient quantities to meet projected demand, the U.S. commercial launch, and future sales of STENDRA in the U.S. and abroad will be adversely affected, which in turn could have a detrimental 38 Table of Contents impact on our financial results and could impact our ability to enter into a collaboration agreement for the commercialization of STENDRA in other territories under our license with MTPC not covered by our agreements with Sanofi, Auxilium and Menarini. In August 2012, we entered into an amendment to our license agreement with MTPC that permits us to manufacture the API and tablets for STENDRA ourselves or through third-party suppliers at any time, and we are required under the amendment to transition away from MTPC as a supplier on or before June 30, 2015. We currently do not have any manufacturing facilities and intend to continue to rely on third parties for the supply of such API and tablets, as well as for the supply of starting materials. However, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for these suppliers in a timely manner or at all. On July 31, 2013, we entered into a Commercial Supply Agreement with Sanofi Chimie to manufacture and supply the API for avanafil on an exclusive basis in the United States and other territories and on a semi-exclusive basis in Europe, including the EU, Latin America and other territories. On November 18, 2013, we entered into a Manufacturing and Supply Agreement with Sanofi Winthrop Industrie to manufacture and supply the avanafil tablets on an exclusive basis in the United States and other territories and on a semi-exclusive basis in Europe, including the EU, Latin America and other territories. We intend to submit an amendment to the New Drug Application, or NDA, for avanafil to the FDA, and the Marketing Authorization, or MA, for avanafil to the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, to include Sanofi Chimie as a qualified supplier of the avanafil API and Sanofi Winthrop Industrie as a qualified supplier of the avanafil tablets. We cannot be certain we will receive approval by regulatory authorities, or that we will be able to obtain such approval in a timely manner. The failure to receive such approval in a timely manner or at all could prevent, delay or preclude our ability to establish a reliable supply chain, which could compromise our ability to commercialize avanafil through our relationships with Sanofi, Auxilium and Menarini, or otherwise. In addition, we have entered into supply agreements with Menarini and Auxilium under which we are obligated to supply them with avanafil tablets. If we are unable to establish a reliable supply of avanafil API or tablets from Sanofi Chimie and/or Sanofi Winthrop Industrie, we may be unable to satisfy our obligations under these supply agreements in a timely manner or at all, and we may, as a result, be in breach of one or both of these agreements. We have in-licensed all or a portion of the rights to Qsymia and STENDRA from third parties. If we default on any of our material obligations under those licenses, we could lose rights to these drugs. We have in-licensed and otherwise contracted for rights to Qsymia and STENDRA, and we may enter into similar licenses in the future. Under the relevant agreements, we are subject to commercialization, development, supply, sublicensing, royalty, insurance and other obligations. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements, or otherwise breach these license agreements, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license in whole or to terminate the exclusive nature of the license. Loss of any of these licenses or the exclusive rights provided therein could harm our financial condition and operating results. In particular, we license the rights to avanafil from MTPC, and we have certain obligations to MTPC in connection with that license. We license the rights to Qsymia from Dr. Najarian. We believe we are in compliance with the material terms of our license agreements with MTPC and Dr. Najarian. However, there can be no assurance that this compliance will continue or that the licensors will not have a differing interpretation of the material terms of the agreements. If the license agreements were terminated early or if the terms of the licenses were contested for any reason, it would have a material adverse impact on our ability to commercialize products subject to these agreements, our ability to raise funds to finance our operations, our stock price and our overall financial condition. The monetary and disruption costs of any disputes involving our agreements could be significant despite rulings in our favor. 39 Table of Contents Our ability to gain market acceptance and generate revenues will be subject to a variety of risks, many of which are out of our control. Qsymia and STENDRA may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors or the medical community. We believe that the degree of market acceptance and our ability to generate revenues from such drugs will depend on a number of factors, including: •our ability to expand the use of Qsymia through targeted patient and physician education; •our ability to find the right partner for expanded Qsymia commercial promotion to a broader primary care physician audience; •our ability to obtain marketing authorization by the European Commission for Qsiva in the EU through the centralized procedure; •our ability to successfully expand the certified retail pharmacy distribution channel in the United States; •contraindications for Qsymia and STENDRA; •competition and timing of market introduction of competitive drugs; •quality, safety and efficacy in the approved setting; •prevalence and severity of any side effects, including those of the generic components of our drugs; •emergence of previously unknown side effects, including those of the generic components of our drugs; •results of any post-approval studies; •potential or perceived advantages or disadvantages over alternative treatments, including generics; •the relative convenience and ease of administration and dosing schedule; •the convenience and ease of purchasing the drug, as perceived by potential patients; •strength of sales, marketing and distribution support; •price, both in absolute terms and relative to alternative treatments; •the effectiveness of our or any future collaborators' sales and marketing strategies; •the effect of current and future healthcare laws; •availability of coverage and reimbursement from government and other third-party payors; •the level of mandatory discounts required under federal and state healthcare programs and the volume of sales subject to those discounts; •recommendations for prescribing physicians to complete certain educational programs for prescribing drugs; •the willingness of patients to pay out-of-pocket in the absence of government or third-party coverage; and •product labeling, product insert, or new REMS requirements of the FDA or other regulatory authorities. 40 Table of Contents Our drugs may fail to achieve market acceptance or generate significant revenue to achieve or sustain profitability. In addition, our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors on the safety and benefits of our drugs may require significant resources and may not be successful. We are required to complete post-approval studies mandated by the FDA for both Qsymia and STENDRA, and such studies are expected to be costly and time consuming. If the results of these studies reveal unacceptable safety risks, Qsymia or STENDRA may be required to be withdrawn from the market. As part of the approval for STENDRA, the FDA is requiring us to perform two post-approval clinical studies. The first is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group multicenter clinical trial on the effect of STENDRA on spermatogenesis in healthy adult males and males with mild ED. The other study is a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, single-dose clinical trial to assess the effects of STENDRA on multiple parameters of vision, including, but not limited to, visual acuity, intraocular pressure, pupillometry, and color vision discrimination in healthy male subjects. If we are unable to complete these studies or the results of these studies reveal unacceptable safety risks, we could be required to perform additional tests and regulatory approval could even be withdrawn. As part of the approval of Qsymia, we are required to conduct several post-marketing studies, including a study to assess the long-term treatment effect of Qsymia on the incidence of major adverse cardiovascular events in overweight and obese subjects with confirmed cardiovascular disease, or AQCLAIM, studies to assess the safety and efficacy of Qsymia for weight management in obese pediatric and adolescent subjects, studies to assess drug utilization and pregnancy exposure and a study to assess renal function. We estimate the AQCLAIM study will cost between $180 and $250 million and the study could take as long as five to six years to complete. On September 20, 2013, we submitted to the EMA a request for Scientific Advice regarding use of a pre-specified interim analysis from the AQCLAIM cardiovascular outcomes trial to support the resubmission of the Marketing Authorization Application, or MAA, for approval of Qsiva for the treatment of obesity in accordance with the centralized marketing authorization procedure. Based on feedback from the EMA health authority, as well as various country health authorities associated with review of the AQCLAIM trial application, the protocol has been revised and resubmitted to the FDA. There can be no assurance that the FDA or EMA will not request or require us to provide additional information or undertake additional preclinical studies and clinical studies or retrospective observational studies. At the FDA's request, we initiated a retrospective observational study utilizing existing electronic medical claims healthcare databases to review fetal outcomes, including the incidence of congenital malformations and oral cleft, in the offspring of women who received treatment with topiramate, for any condition or at any dose, or FORTRESS. We announced preliminary results from FORTRESS in December 2011. We submitted the final report for the FORTRESS study to the FDA in the second quarter of 2013. If the FDA determines that the results of this study reveal unacceptable safety risks for topiramate, we could be required to perform additional studies and regulatory approval could even be withdrawn. In addition to these studies, the FDA may also require us to commit to perform other lengthy post-approval studies, for which we would have to expend significant additional resources, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and stock price. Failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements can result in, among other things, civil penalties, suspensions of regulatory approvals, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. The restriction, suspension or revocation of regulatory approvals or any other failure to comply with regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. 41 Table of Contents We depend upon consultants and outside contractors extensively in important roles within our company. We outsource many key functions of our business and therefore rely on a substantial number of consultants, and we will need to be able to effectively manage these consultants to ensure that they successfully carry out their contractual obligations and meet expected deadlines. However, if we are unable to effectively manage our outsourced activities or if the quality or accuracy of the services provided by consultants is compromised for any reason, our clinical trials or other development activities may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may not be able to complete our post-approval clinical trials for Qsymia and STENDRA, obtain regulatory approval for our future investigational drug candidates, successfully commercialize our approved drugs or otherwise advance our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our existing consultants or find other competent outside contractors and consultants on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Qsymia is a combination of two active ingredient drug products approved individually by the FDA that are commercially available and marketed by other companies, although the specific dose strengths would differ. As a result, Qsymia may be subject to substitution by prescribing physicians, or by pharmacists, with individual drugs contained in the Qsymia formulation, which would adversely affect our business. Although Qsymia is a once-a-day, proprietary extended-release formulation, both of the approved APIs (phentermine and topiramate extended-release) that are combined to produce Qsymia are commercially available as drug products at prices that together are lower than the price at which we sell Qsymia. In addition, the distribution and sale of these drug products is not limited under a REMS program, as is the case with Qsymia. Further, the individual drugs contained in the Qsymia formulation are available in retail pharmacies and neither has a Pregnancy Category X, which is used to indicate that the risks involved in the use of the drug in pregnant women clearly outweigh potential benefits, as is the case with Qsymia. We cannot be sure that physicians will view Qsymia as sufficiently superior to a treatment regimen of Qsymia's individual APIs to justify the significantly higher cost for Qsymia, and they may prescribe the individual generic drugs already approved and marketed by other companies instead of our combination drug. Although our U.S. and European patents contain composition, product formulation and method-of-use claims that we believe protect Qsymia, these patents may be ineffective or impractical to prevent physicians from prescribing, or pharmacists from dispensing, the individual generic constituents marketed by other companies instead of our combination drug. Phentermine and topiramate are currently available in generic form, although the doses used in Qsymia are currently not available. In the third quarter of 2013, Supernus Pharmaceuticals, Inc. launched Trokendi XR™, an extended-release pediatric formulation of the generic drug topiramate that is indicated for epilepsy, in the United States. Topiramate is not approved for obesity treatment, and phentermine is only approved for short-term treatment of obesity. However, because the price of Qsymia is significantly higher than the prices of the individual components as marketed by other companies, physicians may have a greater incentive to write prescriptions for the individual components outside of their approved indication, instead of for our combination drug, and this may limit how we price or market Qsymia. Similar concerns could also limit the reimbursement amounts private health insurers or government agencies in the U.S. are prepared to pay for Qsymia, which could also limit market and patient acceptance of our drug and could negatively impact our revenues. In many regions and countries where we may plan to market Qsymia, the pricing of reimbursed prescription drugs is controlled by the government or regulatory agencies. The government or regulatory agencies in these countries could determine that the pricing for Qsymia should be based on prices for its APIs when sold separately, rather than allowing us to market Qsymia at a premium as a new drug. 42 Table of Contents If we become subject to product liability claims, we may be required to pay damages that exceed our insurance coverage. Qsymia and STENDRA, like all pharmaceutical products, are subject to heightened risk for product liability claims due to inherent potential side effects. For example, because topiramate, a component of Qsymia, may increase the risk of congenital malformation in infants exposed to topiramate during the first trimester of pregnancy and also may increase the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior, such risks may be associated with Qsymia as well. Other potential risks involving Qsymia may include, but are not limited to, an increase in resting heart rate, acute angle closure glaucoma, cognitive and psychiatric adverse events, metabolic acidosis, an increase in serum creatinine, hypoglycemia in patients with type 2 diabetes, kidney stone formation, decreased sweating and hypokalemia, or lower-than-normal amount of potassium in the blood. Although we have obtained product liability insurance coverage for Qsymia, we may be unable to maintain this product liability coverage for Qsymia or any other of our approved drugs in amounts or scope sufficient to provide us with adequate coverage against all potential risks. A product liability claim in excess of, or excluded from, our insurance coverage would have to be paid out of cash reserves and could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. Product liability insurance is expensive, difficult to maintain, and current or increased coverage may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, we develop, test, and manufacture through third parties, approved drugs and future investigational drug candidates that are used by humans. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our approved drugs and investigational drug candidates in clinical trials. An individual may bring a liability claim against us if one of our approved drugs or future investigational drug candidates causes, or merely appears to have caused, an injury. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against a product liability claim, whether involving Qsymia, STENDRA or a future investigational drug candidate, we may incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: •injury to our reputation; •withdrawal of clinical trial patients; •costs of defending the claim and/or related litigation; •cost of any potential adverse verdict; •substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; and •the inability to commercialize our drugs. Damages awarded in a product liability action could be substantial and could have a negative impact on our financial condition. Whether or not we were ultimately successful in product liability litigation, such litigation would consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources, and might result in adverse publicity, all of which would impair our business. In addition, product liability claims could result in an FDA investigation of the safety or efficacy of our product, our third-party manufacturing processes and facilities, or our marketing programs. An FDA investigation could also potentially lead to a recall of our products or more serious enforcement actions, limitations on the indications for which they may be used, or suspension or withdrawal of approval. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and we may be unable to compete successfully against new entrants or established companies. Competition in the pharmaceutical and medical products industries is intense and is characterized by costly and extensive research efforts and rapid technological progress. We are aware of several 43 Table of Contents pharmaceutical companies also actively engaged in the development of therapies for the treatment of obesity and erectile dysfunction. Many of these companies have substantially greater research and development capabilities as well as substantially greater marketing, financial and human resources than we do. Some of the drugs that may compete with Qsymia may not have a REMS requirement and the accompanying complexities such a requirement presents. Our competitors may develop technologies and products that are more effective than those we are currently marketing or researching and developing. Such developments could render Qsymia and STENDRA less competitive or possibly obsolete. We are also competing with respect to marketing capabilities and manufacturing efficiency, areas in which we have limited experience. Qsymia for the treatment of chronic weight management competes with several approved anti-obesity drugs including, Belviq® (lorcaserin), Arena Pharmaceutical's approved anti-obesity compound marketed by Eisai Inc., Eisai Co., Ltd.'s U.S. subsidiary; Xenical® (orlistat), marketed by Roche; alli®, the over-the-counter version of orlistat, marketed by GlaxoSmithKline; and Suprenza™, an orally disintegrating tablet (phentermine hydrochloride), marketed by Akrimax Pharmaceuticals, LCL. In addition, Orexigen Therapeutics, Inc., or Orexigen, has an investigational drug in late stage testing, Contrave®, which, according to Orexigen, could be approved and on the market in 2014. Contrave would be marketed by Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited. There are also several drugs in development for obesity including an investigational drug candidate, liraglutide, in Phase 3 clinical trials being developed by Novo Nordisk A/S. Victoza® (liraglutide) is approved by the FDA for the treatment of type 2 diabetes and also is being developed for the treatment of obesity. Newer agents recently approved for type 2 diabetes include Invokana® (canaglifozin) from Johnson & Johnson's Janssen Pharmaceuticals, an SGLT2 inhibitor that has demonstrated modest, single-digit weight loss in clinical studies. In addition, there are several other investigational drug candidates in Phase 2 clinical trials for the treatment of obesity. There are also a number of generic pharmaceutical drugs that are prescribed for obesity, predominantly phentermine. Phentermine is sold at much lower prices than we charge for Qsymia and is available in retail pharmacies. The availability of branded prescription drugs, generic drugs and over-the-counter drugs could limit the demand for, and the price we are able to charge for, Qsymia. We also may face competition from the off-label use of the generic components in our drugs. In particular, it is possible that patients will seek to acquire phentermine and topiramate, the generic components of Qsymia. Neither of these generic components has a REMS program and both are available at retail pharmacies. Although the dose strength of these generic components has not been approved by the FDA for use in the treatment of obesity, the off-label use of the generic components in the U.S. or the importation of the generic components from foreign markets could adversely affect the commercial potential for our drugs and adversely affect our overall business, financial condition and results of operations. There are also surgical approaches to treat severe obesity that are becoming increasingly accepted. Two of the most well established surgical procedures are gastric bypass surgery and adjustable gastric banding, or lap bands. In February 2011, the FDA approved the use of a lap band in patients with a BMI of 30 (reduced from 35) with comorbidities. The lowering of the BMI requirement will make more obese patients eligible for lap band surgery. In addition, other potential approaches that utilize various implantable devices or surgical tools are in development. Some of these approaches are in late-stage development and may be approved for marketing. We anticipate that STENDRA (avanafil) for the treatment of erectile dysfunction will compete with PDE5 inhibitors in the form of oral medications including Viagra® (sildenafil citrate), marketed by Pfizer, Inc.; Cialis® (tadalafil), marketed by Eli Lilly and Company; Levitra® (vardenafil), co-marketed by GlaxoSmithKline plc and Schering-Plough Corporation in the U.S.; and STAXYN® (vardenafil in an oral disintegrating tablet, or ODT), co-marketed by GlaxoSmithKline plc and Merck & Co., Inc. 44 Table of Contents As patents for the three major PDE5 inhibitors, sildenafil citrate, tadalafil and vardenafil, expire beginning in 2017, we anticipate that generic PDE5 inhibitors will enter the market. Generic PDE5 inhibitors would likely be sold at lower prices and may reduce the demand for STENDRA especially at the prices we would be required to charge for STENDRA to cover our manufacturing and other costs. In addition, PDE5 inhibitors are in various stages of development by other companies. Warner-Chilcott plc, which was acquired by Actavis, Inc. and is now known as Actavis plc, has licensed the U.S. rights to udenafil, a PDE5 inhibitor, from Dong-A Pharmaceutical. Other treatments for ED exist, such as needle injection therapies, vacuum constriction devices and penile implants, and the manufacturers of these products will most likely continue to develop or improve these therapies. Qsymia and STENDRA may also face challenges and competition from newly developed generic products. Under the U.S. Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, known as the Hatch-Waxman Act, newly approved drugs and indications may benefit from a statutory period of non-patent marketing exclusivity. The Hatch-Waxman Act stimulates competition by providing incentives to generic pharmaceutical manufacturers to introduce non-infringing forms of patented pharmaceutical products and to challenge patents on branded pharmaceutical products. If we are unsuccessful at challenging an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, filed pursuant to the Hatch-Waxman Act, a generic version of Qsymia or STENDRA may be launched, which would harm our business. New developments, including the development of other drug technologies and methods of preventing the incidence of disease, occur in the pharmaceutical and medical technology industries at a rapid pace. These developments may render our drugs and future investigational drug candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. Compared to us, many of our potential competitors have substantially greater: •research and development resources, including personnel and technology; •regulatory experience; •investigational drug candidate development and clinical trial experience; •experience and expertise in exploitation of intellectual property rights; and •access to strategic partners and capital resources. As a result of these factors, our competitors may obtain regulatory approval of their products more rapidly than we or may obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limit our ability to develop or commercialize our future investigational drug candidates. Our competitors may also develop drugs or surgical approaches that are more effective, more useful and less costly than ours and may also be more successful in manufacturing and marketing their products. In addition, our competitors may be more effective in commercializing their products. We currently outsource our manufacturing and therefore rely on third parties for that competitive expertise. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop or contract for these capabilities on acceptable economic terms, or at all. We may participate in new partnerships and other strategic transactions that could impact our liquidity, increase our expenses and present significant distractions to our management. From time to time, we consider strategic transactions, such as out-licensing or in-licensing of compounds or technologies, acquisitions of companies and asset purchases. Additional potential transactions we may consider include a variety of different business arrangements, including strategic partnerships, joint ventures, spin-offs, restructurings, divestitures, business combinations and investments. In addition, another entity may pursue us as an acquisition target. Any such transactions may require us to incur non-recurring or other charges, may increase our near- and long-term 45 Table of Contents expenditures and may pose significant integration challenges, require additional expertise or disrupt our management or business, any of which could harm our operations and financial results. As part of an effort to enter into significant transactions, we conduct business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating material risks involved in the transaction. Despite our efforts, we ultimately may be unsuccessful in ascertaining or evaluating all such risks and, as a result, might not realize the expected benefits of the transaction. If we fail to realize the expected benefits from any transaction we may consummate, whether as a result of unidentified risks, integration difficulties, regulatory setbacks or other events, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our failure to successfully acquire, develop and market additional investigational drug candidates or approved drugs would impair our ability to grow. As part of our growth strategy, we may acquire, in-license, develop and/or market additional products and investigational drug candidates. We have not in-licensed any new product candidates in several years. Because our internal research capabilities are limited, we may be dependent upon pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic scientists and other researchers to sell or license products or technology to us. The success of this strategy depends partly upon our ability to identify, select and acquire promising pharmaceutical investigational drug candidates and products. The process of proposing, negotiating and implementing a license or acquisition of an investigational drug candidate or approved product is lengthy and complex. Other companies, including some with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us for the license or acquisition of investigational drug candidates and approved products. We have limited resources to identify and execute the acquisition or in-licensing of third-party products, businesses and technologies and integrate them into our current infrastructure. Moreover, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions or in-licensing opportunities that are never completed, or we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such efforts. We may not be able to acquire the rights to additional investigational drug candidates on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. In addition, future acquisitions may entail numerous operational and financial risks, including: •exposure to unknown liabilities; •disruption of our business and diversion of our management's time and attention to develop acquired products or technologies; •incurrence of substantial debt or dilutive issuances of securities to pay for acquisitions; •higher than expected acquisition, integration and maintenance costs; •increased amortization expenses; •difficulty and cost in combining the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel; •impairment of relationships with key suppliers or customers of any acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership; and •inability to retain key employees of any acquired businesses. Further, any investigational drug candidate that we acquire may require additional development efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive clinical testing and obtaining approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. All investigational drug candidates are prone to certain failures that are relatively common in the field of drug development, including the possibility that an investigational drug candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and effective for approval by regulatory authorities. In addition, we cannot be certain that any drugs that we develop or approved products that we may acquire will be commercialized profitably or achieve market acceptance. 46 Table of Contents If we fail to retain our key personnel and hire, train and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to compete effectively, which could result in reduced revenues or delays in the development of our investigational drug candidates or commercialization of our approved drugs. Our success is highly dependent upon the skills of a limited number of key management personnel. To reach our business objectives, we will need to retain and hire qualified personnel in the areas of manufacturing, commercial operations, research and development, regulatory and legal affairs, business development, clinical trial design, execution and analysis, and pre-clinical testing. There can be no assurance that we will be able to hire or retain such personnel, as we must compete with other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other agencies. The loss of any of our key personnel or the failure to attract or retain necessary new employees could have an adverse effect on our research programs, investigational drug candidate development, approved drug commercialization efforts and business operations. We rely on third parties and collaborative partners to manufacture sufficient quantities of compounds within product specifications as required by regulatory agencies for use in our pre-clinical and clinical trials and commercial operations and an interruption to this service may harm our business. We do not have the ability to manufacture the materials we use in our pre-clinical and clinical trials and commercial operations. Rather, we rely on various third parties to manufacture these materials and there may be long lead times to obtain materials. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, contract with, qualify and obtain prior regulatory approval for additional sources of clinical materials. If interruptions in this supply occur for any reason, including a decision by the third parties to discontinue manufacturing, technical difficulties, labor disputes, natural or other disasters, or a failure of the third parties to follow regulations, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for our investigational drug candidates and may not be able to successfully commercialize these investigational drug candidates or our approved drugs. Our third-party manufacturers and collaborative partners may encounter delays and problems in manufacturing our approved drugs or investigational drug candidates for a variety of reasons, including accidents during operation, failure of equipment, delays in receiving materials, natural or other disasters, political or governmental changes, or other factors inherent in operating complex manufacturing facilities. Supply-chain management is difficult. Commercially available starting materials, reagents, excipients, and other materials may become scarce, more expensive to procure, or not meet quality standards, and we may not be able to obtain favorable terms in agreements with subcontractors. Our third-party manufacturers, may not be able to operate manufacturing facilities in a cost-effective manner or in a time frame that is consistent with our expected future manufacturing needs. If our third-party manufacturers, cease or interrupt production or if our third-party manufacturers and other service providers fail to supply materials, products or services to us for any reason, such interruption could delay progress on our programs, or interrupt the commercial supply, with the potential for additional costs and lost revenues. If this were to occur, we may also need to seek alternative means to fulfill our manufacturing needs. For example, Catalent Pharma Solutions, LLC, or Catalent, supplied the product for the Phase 3 program for Qsymia and is our sole source of clinical and commercial supplies for Qsymia. Catalent has been successful in validating the commercial manufacturing process for Qsymia at an initial scale, which has been able to support the launch of Qsymia in the U.S. market. While Catalent has significant experience in commercial scale manufacturing, there is no assurance that Catalent will be successful in increasing the scale of the initial Qsymia manufacturing process, should the market demand for Qsymia expand beyond the level supportable by the current validated manufacturing process. Such a failure by Catalent to further scale up the commercial manufacturing process for Qsymia could have a material adverse impact on our ability to realize commercial success with Qsymia in the U.S. market, and have a material adverse impact on our plan, market price of our common stock and financial condition. 47 Table of Contents In the case of avanafil, we currently rely on MTPC to supply the API (avanafil) and the avanafil tablets for STENDRA and SPEDRA. MTPC is responsible for all aspects of manufacture, including obtaining the starting materials for the production of API. If MTPC is unable to manufacture the avanafil API or tablets in sufficient quantities to meet projected demand, future sales could be adversely affected, which in turn could have a detrimental impact on our financial results, our license, commercialization, and supply agreements with our collaboration partners, and our ability to enter into a collaboration agreement for the commercialization in other territories. In August 2012, we entered into an amendment to our agreement with MTPC that permits us to manufacture the API and tablets for STENDRA ourselves or through third parties. According to the amendment, the transition of manufacturing from MTPC must occur on or before June 30, 2015. We currently do not have any manufacturing facilities and intend to continue to rely on third parties for the supply of the starting materials, API and tablets. The transfer of technology to and qualification of a new supplier is expensive, time consuming and logistically complicated. The technology transfer needed for this transition is highly dependent on the cooperation of MTPC and its current suppliers. If MTPC, or its current suppliers, are unable to effectively transfer the technology or supply on commercially reasonable terms, partnerability and commercial success of STENDRA could be adversely impacted. Additionally, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in entering into appropriate agreements with other suppliers or that we will be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for these suppliers in a timely manner or at all. On July 31, 2013, we entered into a Commercial Supply Agreement with Sanofi Chimie to manufacture and supply the API for avanafil on an exclusive basis in the United States and other territories and on a semi-exclusive basis in Europe, including the EU, Latin America and other territories. On November 18, 2013, we entered into a Manufacturing and Supply Agreement with Sanofi Winthrop Industrie to manufacture and supply the avanafil tablets on an exclusive basis in the United States and other territories and on a semi-exclusive basis in Europe, including the EU, Latin America and other territories. We intend to submit an amendment to the NDA for avanafil to the FDA, and the MA for avanafil to the EMA, to include Sanofi Chimie as a qualified supplier of the avanafil API and Sanofi Winthrop Industrie as a qualified supplier of the avanafil tablets. We cannot be certain we will receive approval by regulatory authorities, and the failure to receive such approval could prevent, delay, or preclude our ability to establish a reliable supply chain, which could compromise our ability to commercialize avanafil through our relationships with Sanofi, Auxilium, Menarini, or otherwise. Any future manufacturing sites, including those of Sanofi Chimie and Sanofi Winthrop Industrie, would need to be inspected by the U.S. and EU authorities, and any failure of such manufacturing sites to receive approval from FDA or foreign authorities, obtain and maintain ongoing FDA or foreign regulatory compliance, or manufacture avanafil API or tablets in expected quantities could have a detrimental impact on our ability to commercialize STENDRA under our agreements with Sanofi, Auxilium and Menarini and our ability to enter into a collaboration agreement for the commercialization of STENDRA in other territories under our license with MTPC not covered by our agreements with Sanofi, Auxilium and Menarini. We rely on third parties to maintain appropriate levels of confidentiality of the data compiled during clinical, pre-clinical and retrospective observational studies and trials. We seek to maintain the confidential nature of our confidential information through contractual provisions in our agreements with third parties, including our agreements with clinical research organizations, or CROs, that manage our clinical studies for our investigational drug candidates. These CROs may fail to comply with their obligations of confidentiality or may be required as a matter of law to disclose our confidential information. As the success of our clinical studies depends in large part on our confidential information remaining confidential prior to, during and after a clinical study, any 48 Table of Contents disclosure could have a material adverse effect on the outcome of a clinical study, our business, financial condition and results of operations. The collection and use of personal health data in the EU is governed by the provisions of the Data Protection Directive. This Directive imposes a number of requirements relating to the consent of the individuals to whom the personal data relates, the information provided to the individuals, notification of data processing obligations to the competent national data protection authorities and the security and confidentiality of the personal data. The Data Protection Directive also imposes strict rules on the transfer of personal data out of the EU to the United States. Failure to comply with the requirements of the Data Protection Directive and the related national data protection laws of the EU Member States may result in fines and other administrative penalties. The draft EU Data Protection Regulation currently going through the adoption process is expected to introduce new data protection requirements in the EU and substantial fines for breaches of the data protection rules. If the draft Data Protection Regulation is adopted in its current form, it may increase our responsibility and liability in relation to personal data that we process and we may be required to put in place additional mechanisms ensuring compliance with the new EU data protection rules. This may be onerous and increase our cost of doing business. If we fail to comply with applicable healthcare regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our arrangements with third-party payors and customers expose us to broadly applicable federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse. The restrictions under applicable federal and state healthcare laws and regulations that may affect our ability to operate include, but are not limited to: •the federal Anti-Kickback Law, which prohibits, among other things, knowingly or willingly offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward the purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for or recommending the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare items or service for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, by federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical companies on one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Further, the Affordable Care Act, among other things, clarified that a person or entity needs not to have actual knowledge of the federal Anti-Kickback statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, the Affordable Care Act amended the Social Security Act to provide that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Law constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal civil False Claims Act. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors to the federal Anti-Kickback Law protecting certain common business arrangements and activities from prosecution or regulatory sanctions, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that do not fit squarely within an exemption or safe harbor may be subject to scrutiny. We seek to comply with the exemptions and safe harbors whenever possible, but our practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability; •the federal civil False Claims Act, which prohibits, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment of government funds or knowingly making, using, or causing to be made or used, a false record or statement material to an obligation to pay money to the government or knowingly concealing, or knowingly and improperly avoiding, decreasing, or concealing an obligation to pay money to the federal government. Many pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been investigated and have reached substantial financial settlements with the federal government 49 Table of Contents under the civil False Claims Act for a variety of alleged improper marketing activities, including providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; providing consulting fees, grants, free travel, and other benefits to physicians to induce them to prescribe the company's products; and inflating prices reported to private price publication services, which are used to set drug payment rates under government healthcare programs. In addition, in recent years the government has pursued civil False Claims Act cases against a number of pharmaceutical companies for causing false claims to be submitted as a result of the marketing of their products for unapproved, and thus non-reimbursable, uses. Pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies also are subject to other federal false claim laws, including, among others, federal criminal healthcare fraud and false statement statutes that extend to non-government health benefit programs; •numerous federal and state laws, including state security breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws and federal and state consumer protection laws, govern the collection, use and disclosure of personal information. Other countries also have, or are developing, laws governing the collection, use and transmission of personal information. In addition, most healthcare providers who prescribe our product and from whom we obtain patient health information are subject to privacy and security requirements under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA. We are not a HIPAA-covered entity and we do not operate as a business associate to any covered entities. Therefore, these privacy and security requirements do not apply to us. However, we could be subject to criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain individually identifiable health information from a covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by HIPAA or for aiding and abetting the violation of HIPAA. We are unable to predict whether our actions could be subject to prosecution in the event of an impermissible disclosure of health information to us. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect our business, including recently enacted laws in a majority of states requiring security breach notification. These laws could create liability for us or increase our cost of doing business; •analogous state laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, may apply to items or services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. Some state laws also require pharmaceutical companies to report expenses relating to the marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products and to report gifts and payments to individual physicians in the states. Other states prohibit providing meals to prescribers or other marketing-related activities. In addition, California, Connecticut, Nevada, and Massachusetts require pharmaceutical companies to implement compliance programs or marketing codes of conduct. Additional states are considering or recently have considered similar proposals. Foreign governments often have similar regulations, which we also will be subject to in those countries where we market and sell products; •the federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act, being implemented as the Open Payments Program, requires certain pharmaceutical manufacturers to engage in extensive tracking of payments or transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals, maintenance of a payments database, and public reporting of the payment data. Pharmaceutical manufacturers with products for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the State Children's Health Insurance Program are required to track and report such payments. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, recently issued a final rule implementing the Physician Payment Sunshine Act provisions and clarified the scope of the reporting obligations, as well as that applicable manufacturers must begin tracking on August 1, 2013, and must report payment data to CMS by March 31, 2014, and annually thereafter; and 50 Table of Contents •the federal Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1997 and other similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from providing money or anything of value to officials of foreign governments, foreign political parties, or international organizations with the intent to obtain or retain business or seek a business advantage. Recently, there has been a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity by U.S. regulators, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the Department of Justice and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. A determination that our operations or activities are not, or were not, in compliance with United States or foreign laws or regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, interruptions of business, loss of supplier, vendor or other third-party relationships, termination of necessary licenses and permits, and other legal or equitable sanctions. Other internal or government investigations or legal or regulatory proceedings, including lawsuits brought by private litigants, may also follow as a consequence. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government-funded healthcare programs, like Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Although compliance programs can mitigate the risk of investigation and prosecution for violations of these laws, the risks cannot be entirely eliminated. Any action against us for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable federal and state privacy, security and fraud laws may prove costly. In the EU, the advertising and promotion of our products will also be subject to EU Member States' laws concerning promotion of medicinal products, interactions with physicians, misleading and comparative advertising and unfair commercial practices, as well as other EU Member State legislation governing statutory health insurance, bribery and anti-corruption. Failure to comply with these rules can result in enforcement action by the EU Member State authorities, which may include any of the following: fines, imprisonment, orders forfeiting products or prohibiting or suspending their supply to the market, or requiring the manufacturer to issue public warnings, or to conduct a product recall. Marketing activities for our approved drugs are subject to continued governmental regulation. The FDA, and third country authorities, including the competent authorities of the EU Member States, have the authority to impose significant restrictions, including REMS requirements, on approved products through regulations on advertising, promotional and distribution activities. After approval, if products are marketed in contradiction with FDA laws and regulations, the FDA may issue warning letters that require specific remedial measures to be taken, as well as an immediate cessation of the impermissible conduct, resulting in adverse publicity. The FDA may also require that all future promotional materials receive prior agency review and approval before use. Certain states have also adopted regulations and reporting requirements surrounding the promotion of pharmaceuticals. Qsymia and STENDRA are subject to these regulations. Failure to comply with state requirements may affect our ability to promote or sell pharmaceutical drugs in certain states. This, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and financial condition and could subject us to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions. 51 Table of Contents We are subject to ongoing regulatory obligations and restrictions, which may result in significant expense and limit our ability to commercialize our drugs. We are required to comply with extensive regulations for drug manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, distribution, advertising, promotion and record keeping in connection with the marketing of Qsymia and STENDRA. Regulatory approvals may also be subject to significant limitations on the indicated uses or marketing of the investigational drug candidates or to whom and how we may distribute our products. Even after FDA approval is obtained, the FDA may still impose significant restrictions on a drug's indicated uses or marketing or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies. For example, the labeling approved for Qsymia includes restrictions on use, including recommendations for pregnancy testing, level of obesity and duration of treatment. We are subject to ongoing regulatory obligations and restrictions that may result in significant expense and limit our ability to commercialize Qsymia. The FDA has also required the distribution of a Medication Guide to Qsymia patients outlining the increased risk of teratogenicity with fetal exposure and the possibility of suicidal thinking or behavior. In addition, the FDA has required a REMS that may act to limit access to the drug, reduce our revenues and/or increase our costs. The FDA may modify the Qsymia REMS in the future to be more or less restrictive. Even if we maintain FDA approval, or receive a marketing authorization from the European Commission, and other regulatory approvals, if we or others identify adverse side effects after any of our products are on the market, or if manufacturing problems occur, regulatory approval or EU marketing authorization may be varied, suspended or withdrawn and reformulation of our products, additional clinical trials, changes in labeling and additional marketing applications may be required, any of which could harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. We and our contract manufacturers are subject to significant regulation with respect to manufacturing of our products. All of those involved in the preparation of a therapeutic drug for clinical trials or commercial sale, including our existing supply contract manufacturers, and clinical trial investigators, are subject to extensive regulation. Components of a finished drug product approved for commercial sale or used in late-stage clinical trials must be manufactured in accordance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP. These regulations govern quality control of the manufacturing processes and documentation policies and procedures, and the implementation and operation of quality systems to control and assure the quality of investigational products and products approved for sale. Our facilities and quality systems and the facilities and quality systems of our third-party contractors must be inspected routinely for compliance. If any such inspection or audit identifies a failure to comply with applicable regulations or if a violation of our product specifications or applicable regulation occurs independent of such an inspection or audit, we or the FDA may require remedial measures that may be costly and/or time consuming for us or a third party to implement and that may include the issuance of a warning letter, temporary or permanent suspension of a clinical trial or commercial sales, recalls, market withdrawals, seizures, or the temporary or permanent closure of a facility. Any such remedial measures would be imposed upon us or third parties with whom we contract until satisfactory cGMP compliance is achieved. The FDA could also impose civil penalties. We must also comply with similar regulatory requirements of foreign regulatory agencies. We obtain the necessary raw materials and components for the manufacture of Qsymia and STENDRA as well as certain services, such as analytical testing packaging and labeling, from third parties. In particular, we rely on Catalent to supply Qsymia capsules and Packaging Coordinators, Inc., or PCI, for Qsymia packaging services. We and these suppliers and service providers are required to follow cGMP requirements and are subject to routine and unannounced inspections by the FDA and by state and foreign regulatory agencies for compliance with cGMP requirements and other applicable regulations. Upon inspection of these facilities, the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may find the 52 Table of Contents manufacturing process or facilities are not in compliance with cGMP requirements and other regulations. Because manufacturing processes are highly complex and are subject to a lengthy regulatory approval process, alternative qualified supply may not be available on a timely basis or at all. Difficulties, problems or delays in our suppliers and service providers' manufacturing and supply of raw materials, components and services could delay our clinical trials, increase our costs, damage our reputation and cause us to lose revenue or market share if we are unable to timely meet market demands. If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid Drug Rebate program or other governmental pricing programs, we could be subject to additional reimbursement requirements, penalties, sanctions and fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. We participate in the Medicaid Drug Rebate program, established by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 and amended by the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 as well as subsequent legislation. Under the Medicaid Drug Rebate program, we are required to pay a rebate to each state Medicaid program for our covered outpatient drugs that are dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries and paid for by a state Medicaid program as a condition of having federal funds being made available to the states for our drugs under Medicaid and Medicare Part B. Those rebates are based on pricing data reported by us on a monthly and quarterly basis to CMS, the federal agency that administers the Medicaid Drug Rebate program. These data include the average manufacturer price and, in the case of innovator products, the best price for each drug. The Affordable Care Act made significant changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate program. Effective March 23, 2010, rebate liability expanded from fee-for-service Medicaid utilization to include the utilization of Medicaid managed care organizations as well. With regard to the amount of the rebates owed, the Affordable Care Act increased the minimum Medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1% of the average manufacturer price for most innovator products and from 11% to 13% for non-innovator products; changed the calculation of the rebate for certain innovator products that qualify as line extensions of existing drugs; and capped the total rebate amount for innovator drugs at 100% of the average manufacturer price. In addition, the Affordable Care Act and subsequent legislation changed the definition of average manufacturer price. Finally, the Affordable Care Act requires pharmaceutical manufacturers of branded prescription drugs to pay a branded prescription drug fee to the federal government beginning in 2011. Each individual pharmaceutical manufacturer pays a prorated share of the branded prescription drug fee of $3.0 billion in 2014 (and set to increase in ensuing years), based on the dollar value of its branded prescription drug sales to certain federal programs identified in the law. In 2012, CMS issued proposed regulations to implement the changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate program under the Affordable Care Act but has not yet issued final regulations. CMS is currently expected to release the final regulations in 2014. Moreover, in the future, Congress could enact legislation that further increases Medicaid drug rebates or other costs and charges associated with participating in the Medicaid Drug Rebate program. The issuance of regulations and coverage expansion by various governmental agencies relating to the Medicaid Drug Rebate program has and will continue to increase our costs and the complexity of compliance, has been and will be time consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Federal law requires that any company that participates in the Medicaid Drug Rebate program also participate in the Public Health Service's 340B drug pricing discount program in order for federal funds to be available for the manufacturer's drugs under Medicaid and Medicare Part B. The 340B pricing program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily defined covered entities no more than the 340B "ceiling price" for the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs. These 53 Table of Contents 340B covered entities include a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the Public Health Service, as well as hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of low-income patients. The 340B ceiling price is calculated using a statutory formula, which is based on the average manufacturer price and rebate amount for the covered outpatient drug as calculated under the Medicaid Drug Rebate program. Changes to the definition of average manufacturer price and the Medicaid rebate amount under the Affordable Care Act and CMS's issuance of final regulations implementing those changes also could affect our 340B ceiling price calculations and negatively impact our results of operations. The Affordable Care Act expanded the 340B program to include additional entity types: certain free-standing cancer hospitals, critical access hospitals, rural referral centers and sole community hospitals, each as defined by the Affordable Care Act. The Affordable Care Act also obligates the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, to create regulations and processes to improve the integrity of the 340B program and to update the agreement that manufacturers must sign to participate in the 340B program to obligate a manufacturer to offer the 340B price to covered entities if the manufacturer makes the drug available to any other purchaser at any price and to report to the government the ceiling prices for its drugs. The Health Resources and Services Administration, or HRSA, is expected to issue a comprehensive proposed regulation in 2014 that will address many aspects of the 340B program. When that regulation is finalized, it could affect our obligations under the 340B program in ways we cannot anticipate. In addition, legislation may be introduced that, if passed, would further expand the 340B program to additional covered entities or would require participating manufacturers to agree to provide 340B discounted pricing on drugs used in the inpatient setting. Pricing and rebate calculations vary among products and programs. The calculations are complex and are often subject to interpretation by us, governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. The Medicaid rebate amount is computed each quarter based on our submission to CMS of our current average manufacturer prices and best prices for the quarter. If we become aware that our reporting for a prior quarter was incorrect, or has changed as a result of recalculation of the pricing data, we are obligated to resubmit the corrected data for a period not to exceed 12 quarters from the quarter in which the data originally were due. Such restatements and recalculations increase our costs for complying with the laws and regulations governing the Medicaid Drug Rebate program. Any corrections to our rebate calculations could result in an overage or underage in our rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the nature of the correction. Price recalculations also may affect the ceiling price at which we are required to offer our products to certain covered entities, such as safety-net providers, under the 340B drug discount program. We are liable for errors associated with our submission of pricing data. In addition to retroactive rebates and the potential for 340B program refunds, if we are found to have knowingly submitted false average manufacturer price or best price information to the government, we may be liable for civil monetary penalties in the amount of $100,000 per item of false information. Our failure to submit monthly/quarterly average manufacturer price and best price data on a timely basis could result in a civil monetary penalty of $10,000 per day for each day the information is late beyond the due date. Such failure also could be grounds for CMS to terminate our Medicaid drug rebate agreement, pursuant to which we participate in the Medicaid program. In the event that CMS terminates our rebate agreement, no federal payments would be available under Medicaid or Medicare Part B for our covered outpatient drugs. In September 2010, CMS and the Office of the Inspector General indicated that they intend to pursue more aggressively companies that fail to report these data to the government in a timely manner. Governmental agencies may also make changes in program interpretations, requirements or conditions of participation, some of which may have implications for amounts previously estimated or 54 Table of Contents paid. We cannot assure you that our submissions will not be found by CMS to be incomplete or incorrect. Federal law requires that, for a company to be eligible to have its products paid for with federal funds under the Medicaid and Medicare Part B programs as well as to be purchased by certain federal agencies and certain federal grantees, it also must participate in the Department of Veterans Affairs, or VA, Federal Supply Schedule, or FSS, pricing program. To participate, we are required to enter into an FSS contract with the VA, under which we must make our innovator "covered drugs" available to the "Big Four" federal agencies—the VA, the Department of Defense, or DoD, the Public Health Service, and the Coast Guard—at pricing that is capped pursuant to a statutory federal ceiling price, or FCP, formula set forth in Section 603 of the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992, or VHCA. The FCP is based on a weighted average wholesaler price known as the "non-federal average manufacturer price," or Non-FAMP, which manufacturers are required to report on a quarterly and annual basis to the VA. If a company misstates Non-FAMPs or FCPs it must restate these figures. Pursuant to the VHCA, knowingly providing false information in connection with a Non-FAMP filing can subject a manufacturer to penalties of $100,000 for each item of false information. FSS contracts are federal procurement contracts that include standard government terms and conditions, separate pricing for each product, and extensive disclosure and certification requirements. All items on FSS contracts are subject to a standard FSS contract clause that requires FSS contract price reductions under certain circumstances where pricing is reduced to an agreed "tracking customer." Further, in addition to the "Big Four" agencies, all other federal agencies and some non-federal entities are authorized to access FSS contracts. FSS contractors are permitted to charge FSS purchasers other than the "Big Four" agencies "negotiated pricing" for covered drugs that is not capped by the FCP; instead, such pricing is negotiated based on a mandatory disclosure of the contractor's commercial "most favored customer" pricing. We offer one single FCP-based FSS contract price to all FSS purchasers for all products. In addition, pursuant to regulations issued by the DoD TRICARE Management Activity, or TMA, now Defense Health Agency, or DHA, to implement Section 703 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, each of our covered drugs is listed on a Section 703 Agreement with TMA under which we have agreed to pay rebates on covered drug prescriptions dispensed to TRICARE beneficiaries. Companies are required to list their innovator products on Section 703 Agreements in order for those products to be eligible for DoD formulary inclusion. The formula for determining the rebate is established in the regulations and our Section 703 Agreement and is based on the difference between the Annual Non-FAMP and the FCP (as described above, these price points are required to be calculated by us under the VHCA). If we overcharge the government in connection with our FSS contract or Section 703 Agreement, whether due to a misstated FCP or otherwise, we are required to refund the difference to the government. Failure to make necessary disclosures and/or to identify contract overcharges can result in allegations against us under the False Claims Act and other laws and regulations. Unexpected refunds to the government, and responding to a government investigation or enforcement action, would be expensive and time consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. 55 Table of Contents Changes in reimbursement procedures by government and other third-party payors, including changes in healthcare law and implementing regulations, may limit our ability to market and sell our approved drugs, or any future drugs, if approved, may limit our product revenues and delay profitability, and may impact our business in ways that we cannot currently predict. These changes could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In the U.S. and abroad, sales of pharmaceutical drugs are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement to the consumer from third-party payors, such as government and private insurance plans. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Some third-party payor benefit packages restrict reimbursement, charge co-pays to patients, or do not provide coverage for specific drugs or drug classes. In addition, certain healthcare providers are moving towards a managed care system in which such providers contract to provide comprehensive healthcare services, including prescription drugs, for a fixed cost per person. We are unable to predict the reimbursement policies employed by third-party healthcare payors. Payors also are increasingly considering new metrics as the basis for reimbursement rates, such as average sales price, average manufacturer price and Actual Acquisition Cost. The existing data for reimbursement based on these metrics is relatively limited, although certain states have begun to survey acquisition cost data for the purpose of setting Medicaid reimbursement rates. CMS, the federal agency that administers the Medicare and Medicaid Drug Rebate program, has made draft National Average Drug Acquisition Cost, or NADAC, and draft National Average Retail Price, or NARP, data publicly available on at least a monthly basis. In July 2013, CMS suspended the publication of draft NARP data, pending funding decisions. In November 2013, CMS moved to publishing final rather than draft NADAC data and has since made updated NADAC data publicly available on a weekly basis. Therefore, it may be difficult to project the impact of these evolving reimbursement mechanics on the willingness of payors to cover our products. The healthcare industry in the U.S. and abroad is undergoing fundamental changes that are the result of political, economic and regulatory influences. The levels of revenue and profitability of pharmaceutical companies may be affected by the continuing efforts of governmental and third-party payors to contain or reduce healthcare costs through various means. Reforms that have been and may be considered include mandated basic healthcare benefits, controls on healthcare spending through limitations on the increase in private health insurance premiums and the types of drugs eligible for reimbursement and Medicare and Medicaid spending, the creation of large insurance purchasing groups, and fundamental changes to the healthcare delivery system. These proposals include measures that would limit or prohibit payments for some medical treatments or subject the pricing of drugs to government control and regulations changing the rebates we are required to provide. These changes could impact our ability to maximize revenues in the federal marketplace. In March 2010, the President signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, together the Affordable Care Act. The Affordable Care Act substantially changed the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and could have a material adverse effect on our future business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations, including by operation of the following provisions: •Effective March 23, 2010, rebate liability expanded from fee-for-service Medicaid utilization to include the utilization of Medicaid managed care organizations as well. This expanded eligibility affects rebate liability for that utilization. •With regard to the amount of the rebates owed, the Affordable Care Act increased the minimum Medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1% of the average manufacturer price for most innovator products and from 11% to 13% for non-innovator products; changed the calculation of 56 Table of Contents the rebate for certain innovator products that qualify as line extensions of existing drugs; and capped the total rebate amount for innovator drugs at 100% of the average manufacturer price. •Effective January 1, 2011, pharmaceutical companies must provide a 50% discount on branded prescription drugs dispensed to beneficiaries within the Medicare Part D coverage gap or "donut hole," which is a coverage gap that currently exists in the Medicare Part D prescription drug program. We currently do not anticipate coverage under Medicare Part D, but this could change in the future. •Effective January 1, 2011, the Affordable Care Act requires pharmaceutical manufacturers of branded prescription drugs to pay a branded prescription drug fee to the federal government. Each individual pharmaceutical manufacturer pays a prorated share of the branded prescription drug fee of $3.0 billion in 2014, (and set to increase in ensuing years) based on the dollar value of its branded prescription drug sales to certain federal programs identified in the law. •Some states have elected to expand their Medicaid programs by raising the income limit to 133% of the federal poverty level. For each state that does not choose to expand its Medicaid program, there may be fewer insured patients overall, which could impact our sales, business and financial condition. We expect any Medicaid expansion to impact the number of adults in Medicaid more than children because many states have already set their eligibility criteria for children at or above the level designated in the Affordable Care Act. An increase in the proportion of patients who receive our drugs and who are covered by Medicaid could adversely affect our net sales. Many of the Affordable Care Act's most significant reforms do not take effect until 2014. In 2012, CMS issued proposed regulations to implement the changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate program under the Affordable Care Act but has not yet issued final regulations. CMS is currently expected to release the final regulations in 2014. At this time, we cannot predict the full impact of the Affordable Care Act, or the timing and impact of any future rules or regulations promulgated to implement the Affordable Care Act. The Affordable Care Act also expanded the Public Health Service's 340B drug pricing discount program. The 340B pricing program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily defined covered entities no more than the 340B "ceiling price" for the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs. The Affordable Care Act expanded the 340B program to include additional types of covered entities: certain free-standing cancer hospitals, critical access hospitals, rural referral centers and sole community hospitals, each as defined by the Affordable Care Act. The Affordable Care Act also obligates the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services to create regulations and processes to improve the integrity of the 340B program and to ensure the agreement that manufacturers must sign to participate in the 340B program obligates a manufacturer to offer the 340B price to covered entities if the manufacturer makes the drug available to any other purchaser at any price and to report to the government the ceiling prices for its drugs. The Health Resources and Services Administration is expected to issue a comprehensive proposed regulation in 2014 that will address many aspects of the 340B program. When that regulation is finalized, it could affect our obligations under the 340B program in ways we cannot anticipate. In addition, legislation may be introduced that, if passed, would further expand the 340B program to additional covered entities or would require participating manufacturers to agree to provide 340B discounted pricing on drugs used in the inpatient setting. There can be no assurance that future healthcare legislation or other changes in the administration or interpretation of government healthcare or third-party reimbursement programs will not have a material adverse effect on us. Healthcare reform is also under consideration in other countries where we intend to market Qsymia. 57 Table of Contents We expect to experience pricing and reimbursement pressures in connection with the sale of Qsymia, STENDRA and our investigational drug candidates, if approved, due to the trend toward managed healthcare, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative proposals. In addition, we may confront limitations in insurance coverage for Qsymia, STENDRA and our investigational drug candidates. For example, the Medicare program generally does not provide coverage for drugs used to treat erectile dysfunction or drugs used to treat obesity. Similarly, other insurers may determine that such products are not covered under their programs. If we fail to successfully secure and maintain reimbursement coverage for our approved drugs and investigational drug candidates or are significantly delayed in doing so, we will have difficulty achieving market acceptance of our approved drugs and investigational drug candidates and our business will be harmed. Congress has enacted healthcare reform and may enact further reform, which could adversely affect the pharmaceutical industry as a whole, and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business. Both of the active pharmaceutical ingredients in Qsymia, phentermine and topiramate, are available as generics and do not have a REMS requirement. The exact doses of the active ingredients in Qsymia are different than those currently available for the generic components. State pharmacy laws prohibit pharmacists from substituting drugs with differing doses and formulations. The safety and efficacy of Qsymia is dependent on the titration, dosing and formulation, which we believe could not be easily duplicated, if at all, with the use of generic substitutes. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to provide for optimal reimbursement of Qsymia as a treatment for obesity or, if approved, for any other indication, from third-party payors or the U.S. government. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that healthcare providers would not actively seek to provide patients with generic versions of the active ingredients in Qsymia in order to treat obesity at a potential lower cost and outside of the REMS requirements. An increasing number of EU Member States and other foreign countries use prices for medicinal products established in other countries as "reference prices" to help determine the price of the product in their own territory. Consequently, a downward trend in prices of medicinal products in some countries could contribute to similar downward trends elsewhere. In addition, the ongoing budgetary difficulties faced by a number of EU Member States, including Greece and Spain, have led and may continue to lead to substantial delays in payment and payment partially with government bonds rather than cash for medicinal products, which could negatively impact our revenues and profitability. Moreover, in order to obtain reimbursement of our medicinal products in some countries, including some EU Member States, we may be required to conduct clinical trials that compare the cost effectiveness of our products to other available therapies. There can be no assurance that our medicinal products will obtain favorable reimbursement status in any country. Setbacks and consolidation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, and our, or our collaborators', inability to obtain third-party coverage and adequate reimbursement, could make partnering more difficult and diminish our revenues. Setbacks in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, such as those caused by safety concerns relating to high-profile drugs like Avandia®, Vioxx® and Celebrex®, or investigational drug candidates, as well as competition from generic drugs, litigation, and industry consolidation, may have an adverse effect on us. For example, pharmaceutical companies may be less willing to enter into new collaborations or continue existing collaborations if they are integrating a new operation as a result of a merger or acquisition or if their therapeutic areas of focus change following a merger. Moreover, our and our collaborators' ability to commercialize any of our approved drugs or future investigational drug candidates will depend in part on government regulation and the availability of coverage and adequate reimbursement from third-party payors, including private health insurers and government payors, such as the Medicaid and Medicare programs, increases in government-run, single-payor health insurance 58 Table of Contents plans and compulsory licenses of drugs. Government and third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting coverage and reimbursement levels for new drugs. Given the continuing discussion regarding the cost of healthcare, managed care, universal healthcare coverage and other healthcare issues, we cannot predict with certainty what additional healthcare initiatives, if any, will be implemented or the effect any future legislation or regulation will have on our business. These efforts may limit our commercial opportunities by reducing the amount a potential collaborator is willing to pay to license our programs or investigational drug candidates in the future due to a reduction in the potential revenues from drug sales. Adoption of legislation and regulations could limit pricing approvals for, and reimbursement of, drugs. A government or third-party payor decision not to approve pricing for, or provide adequate coverage and reimbursements of, our drugs could limit market acceptance of these drugs. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of our contract sales organization, or CSO, CROs, safety monitoring company and other contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, accidents, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. While we have not experienced any such system failure, accident or security breach to date, if such an event were to occur and cause interruptions in our operations, it could result in a material disruption of our investigational drug candidate development programs and drug manufacturing operations. For example, the loss of clinical trial data from completed or ongoing clinical trials for our investigational drug candidates could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts with the FDA, the European Commission, or the competent authorities of the EU Member States, and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruption or security breach was to result in a loss of or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and the further development of our investigational drug candidates, or commercialization of our approved drugs, could be delayed. If we are unable to restore our information systems in the event of a systems failure, our communications, daily operations and the ability to develop our investigational drug candidates and approved drug commercialization efforts would be severely affected. Natural disasters or resource shortages could disrupt our investigational drug candidate development and approved drug commercialization efforts and adversely affect results. Our ongoing or planned clinical trials and approved drug commercialization efforts could be delayed or disrupted indefinitely upon the occurrence of a natural disaster. For example, Hurricane Sandy in October 2012, hindered our Qsymia sales efforts. In 2005, our clinical trials in the New Orleans area were interrupted by Hurricane Katrina. In addition, our offices are located in the San Francisco Bay Area near known earthquake fault zones and are therefore vulnerable to damage from earthquakes. In October 1989, a major earthquake in our area caused significant property damage and a number of fatalities. Our current supplier of STENDRA is located in Japan near known earthquake fault zones and is vulnerable to damage from earthquakes and tsunamis. We are also vulnerable to damage from other disasters, such as power loss, fire, floods and similar events. If a significant disaster occurs, our ability to continue our operations could be seriously impaired and we may not have adequate insurance to cover any resulting losses. Any significant unrecoverable losses could seriously impair our operations and financial condition. 59 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Intellectual Property Obtaining intellectual property rights is a complex process, and we may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary technologies. We hold various patents and patent applications in the U.S. and abroad targeting obesity and morbidities related to obesity, including sleep apnea and diabetes, and sexual health, among other indications. The procedures for obtaining a patent in the U.S. and in most foreign countries are complex. These procedures require an analysis of the scientific technology related to the invention and many sophisticated legal issues. Consequently, the process for having our pending patent applications issue as patents will be difficult, complex and time consuming. We do not know when, or if, we will obtain additional patents for our technologies, or if the scope of the patents obtained will be sufficient to protect our investigational drug candidates or products, or be considered sufficient by parties reviewing our patent positions pursuant to a potential licensing or financing transaction. In addition, we cannot make assurances as to how much protection, if any, will be provided by our issued patents. Our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. Others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies or products. These companies would then be able to develop, manufacture and sell products that compete directly with our products. In that case, our revenues and operating results could decline. Other entities may also challenge the validity or enforceability of our patents and patent applications in litigation or administrative proceedings. The sponsor of a generic application seeking to rely on one of our approved drug products as the reference listed drug must make one of several certifications regarding each listed patent. A "Paragraph III" certification is the sponsor's statement that it will wait for the patent to expire before obtaining approval for its product. A "Paragraph IV" certification is a challenge to the patent; it is an assertion that the patent does not block approval of the later product, either because the patent is invalid or unenforceable or because the patent, even if valid, is not infringed by the new product. Once the FDA accepts for filing a generic application containing a Paragraph IV certification, the applicant must within 20 days provide notice to the reference listed drug, or RLD, NDA holder and patent owner that the application with patent challenge has been submitted, and provide the factual and legal basis for the applicant's assertion that the patent is invalid or not infringed. If the NDA holder or patent owner file suit against the generic applicant for patent infringement within 45 days of receiving the Paragraph IV notice, the FDA is prohibited from approving the generic application for a period of 30 months from the date of receipt of the notice. If the RLD has new chemical entity exclusivity and the notice is given and suit filed during the fifth year of exclusivity, the 30-month stay does not begin until five years after the RLD approval. The FDA may approve the proposed product before the expiration of the 30-month stay if a court finds the patent invalid or not infringed or if the court shortens the period because the parties have failed to cooperate in expediting the litigation. If a competitor or a generic pharmaceutical provider successfully challenges our patents, the protection provided by these patents could be reduced or eliminated and our ability to commercialize any approved drugs would be at risk. In addition, if a competitor or generic manufacturer were to receive approval to sell a generic or follow-on version of one of our products, our approved product would become subject to increased competition and our revenues for that product would be adversely affected. On September 16, 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the Leahy-Smith Act, was signed into law. The Leahy-Smith Act includes a number of significant changes to U.S. patent law. These changes include provisions that affect the way patent applications will be prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. The U.S. Patent Office has developed regulations and procedures to govern administration of the Leahy-Smith Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act have only recently become effective. Accordingly, it is too early to tell what, 60 Table of Contents if any, impact the Leahy-Smith Act will have on the operation of our business. However, the Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We also may rely on trade secrets and other unpatented confidential information to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We seek to protect our trade secrets and other confidential information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators, vendors (including CROs and our CSO), consultants and, at times, with potential investors. Nevertheless, employees, collaborators, vendors, consultants or potential investors may still disclose or misuse our trade secrets and other confidential information, and we may not be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets. In addition, others may independently develop substantially equivalent information or techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Disclosure or misuse of our confidential information would harm our competitive position and could cause our revenues and operating results to decline. If we believe that others have infringed or misappropriated our proprietary rights, we may need to institute legal action to protect our intellectual property rights. Such legal action may be expensive, and we may not be able to afford the costs of enforcing or defending our intellectual property rights against others. We may be sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of others, which could be costly and result in delays or termination of our future research, development, manufacturing and sales activities. Our commercial success also depends, in part, upon our ability to develop future investigational drug candidates, market and sell approved drugs and conduct our other research, development and commercialization activities without infringing or misappropriating the patents and other proprietary rights of others. There are many patents and patent applications owned by others that could be relevant to our business. For example, there are numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications owned by others that are related to the therapeutic areas in which we have approved drugs or future investigational drug candidates as well as the therapeutic targets to which these drugs and candidates are directed. There are also numerous issued patents and patent applications covering chemical compounds or synthetic processes that may be necessary or useful to use in our research, development, manufacturing or commercialization activities. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our approved drugs, future investigational drug candidates or technologies may infringe. There also may be existing patents, of which we are not aware, that our approved drugs, investigational drug candidates or technologies may infringe. Further, it is not always clear to industry participants, including us, which patents cover various types of products or methods. The coverage of patents is subject to interpretation by the courts, and the interpretation is not always uniform. We cannot assure you that others holding any of these patents or patent applications will not assert infringement claims against us for damages or seek to enjoin our activities. If we are sued for patent infringement, we would need to demonstrate that our products or methods do not infringe the patent claims of the relevant patent and/or that the patent claims are invalid or unenforceable, and we may not be able to do this. There can be no assurance that approved drugs or future investigational drug candidates do not or will not infringe on the patents or proprietary rights of others. In addition, third parties may already own or may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of our technologies infringes these patents. If a person or entity files a legal action or administrative action against us, or our collaborators, claiming that our drug discovery, development, manufacturing or commercialization activities infringe a 61 Table of Contents patent owned by the person or entity, we could incur substantial costs and diversion of the time and attention of management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any such claims. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize and sell any current or future approved drugs, and such claims could result in the award of substantial damages against us. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. In that case, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative investigational drug candidates or be required to cease commercializing any affected current or future approved drugs and our operating results would be harmed. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of pre-trial document and witness discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. We may face additional competition outside of the U.S. as a result of a lack of patent coverage in some territories and differences in patent prosecution and enforcement laws in foreign countries. Filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patents on all of our drug discovery technologies and all of our approved drugs and potential investigational drug candidates throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive. While we have filed patent applications in many countries outside the U.S., and have obtained some patent coverage for approved drugs in certain foreign countries, we do not currently have widespread patent protection for these drugs outside the U.S. and have no protection in many foreign jurisdictions. Competitors may use our technologies to develop their own drugs in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection. These drugs may compete with our approved drugs or future investigational drug candidates and may not be covered by any of our patent claims or other intellectual property rights. Even if international patent applications ultimately issue or receive approval, it is likely that the scope of protection provided by such patents will be different from, and possibly less than, the scope provided by our corresponding U.S. patents. The success of our international market opportunity is dependent upon the enforcement of patent rights in various other countries. A number of countries in which we have filed or intend to file patent applications have a history of weak enforcement and/or compulsory licensing of intellectual property rights. Moreover, the legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biotechnology and/or pharmaceuticals, which make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents. Even if we have patents issued in these jurisdictions, there can be no assurance that our patent rights will be sufficient to prevent generic competition or unauthorized use. Attempting to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. 62 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Financial Position and Need for Financing We may require additional capital for our future operating plans, and we may not be able to secure the requisite additional funding on acceptable terms, or at all, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate commercialization efforts. We expect that our existing capital resources combined with future anticipated cash flows will be sufficient to support our operating activities at least through 2014. However, we anticipate that we will be required to obtain additional financing to fund our commercialization efforts, additional clinical studies for approved products and the development of our research and development pipeline in future periods. Our future capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: •our ability to expand the use of Qsymia through targeted patient and physician education; •our ability to find the right partner for expanded Qsymia commercial promotion to a broader primary care physician audience on a timely basis; •our ability to obtain marketing authorization by the European Commission for Qsiva in the EU through the centralized procedure; •our ability to manage costs; •the substantial cost to expand into certified retail pharmacy locations and the cost required to maintain the REMS program for Qsymia; •the cost, timing and outcome of the post-approval clinical studies the FDA has required us to perform as part of the approval for STENDRA and Qsymia; •our ability, along with our collaboration partners, to successfully commercialize STENDRA in the U.S., Canada, the EU, Australia, New Zealand, Africa, the Middle East, Turkey, and the CIS, including Russia; •our ability to successfully commercialize STENDRA in other territories under our license with MTPC in which we do not have a commercial collaboration; •the progress and costs of our research and development programs; •the scope, timing, costs and results of pre-clinical, clinical and retrospective observational studies and trials; •the cost of access to electronic records and databases that allow for retrospective observational studies; •patient recruitment and enrollment in future clinical trials; •the costs involved in seeking regulatory approvals for future drug candidates; •the costs involved in filing and pursuing patent applications, defending and enforcing patent claims; •the establishment of collaborations, sublicenses and strategic alliances and the related costs, including milestone payments; •the cost of manufacturing and commercialization activities and arrangements; •the level of resources devoted to our future sales and marketing capabilities; •the cost, timing and outcome of litigation, if any; •the impact of healthcare reform, if any, imposed by the federal government; and •the activities of competitors. 63 Table of Contents Future capital requirements will also depend on the extent to which we acquire or invest in additional complementary businesses, products and technologies. We currently have no commitments or agreements relating to any of these types of transactions. To obtain additional capital when needed, we will evaluate alternative financing sources, including, but not limited to, the issuance of equity or debt securities, corporate alliances, joint ventures and licensing agreements. However, there can be no assurance that funding will be available on favorable terms, if at all. We are continually evaluating our existing portfolio and we may choose to divest, sell or spin-off one or more of our drugs and/or investigational drug candidates at any time. We cannot assure you that our drugs will generate revenues sufficient to enable us to earn a profit. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, management may be required to explore alternatives to reduce cash used by operating activities, including the termination of research and development efforts that may appear to be promising to us, the sale of certain assets and the reduction in overall operating activities. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our development programs or our commercialization efforts. Raising additional funds by issuing securities will cause dilution to existing stockholders and raising funds through lending and licensing arrangements may restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our existing stockholders' ownership will be diluted. We have financed our operations, and we expect to continue to finance our operations, primarily by issuing equity and debt securities. Moreover, any issuances by us of equity securities may be at or below the prevailing market price of our common stock and in any event may have a dilutive impact on your ownership interest, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. To raise additional capital, we may choose to issue additional securities at any time and at any price. On May 21, 2013, we closed an offering of $220.0 million in 4.5% Convertible Senior Notes due May 1, 2020, which we refer to as the Convertible Notes. On May 29, 2013, we closed on an additional $30.0 million of Convertible Notes upon exercise of an option by the initial purchasers of the Convertible Notes. Total net proceeds from the Convertible Notes were approximately $241.8 million. The Convertible Notes are convertible into approximately 16,826,000 shares of our common stock under certain circumstances prior to maturity at a conversion rate of 67.3038 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Convertible Notes, which represents a conversion price of approximately $14.858 per share, subject to adjustment under certain conditions. The Convertible Notes are convertible at the option of the holders at any time prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding November 1, 2019, only under certain conditions. Investors in our common stock will be diluted to the extent the Convertible Notes are converted into shares of our common stock, rather than being settled in cash. We may also raise additional capital through the incurrence of debt, and the holders of any debt we may issue would have rights superior to our stockholders' rights in the event we are not successful and are forced to seek the protection of bankruptcy laws. In addition, debt financing typically contains covenants that restrict operating activities. For example, on March 25, 2013, we entered into the Purchase and Sale Agreement with BioPharma, which provides for the purchase of a debt-like instrument. Under the BioPharma Agreement, we may not (i) incur indebtedness greater than a specified amount, (ii) pay a dividend or other cash distribution on our capital stock, unless we have cash and cash equivalents in excess of a specified amount, (iii) amend or restate our certificate of incorporation or bylaws unless such amendments or restatements do not affect BioPharma's interests under the BioPharma Agreement, (iv) encumber the collateral, or (v) abandon certain patent rights, in each case without the consent of BioPharma. Any future debt financing we enter into may involve similar or more onerous covenants that restrict our operations. 64 Table of Contents If we raise additional capital through collaboration, licensing or other similar arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our drugs or future investigational drug candidates, potential products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If adequate funds are not available, our ability to achieve profitability or to respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited and we may be required to delay, significantly curtail or eliminate the commercialization of one or more of our approved drugs or the development of one or more of our future investigational drug candidates. The investment of our cash balance and our available-for-sale securities are subject to risks that may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. At December 31, 2013, we had $103.3 million in cash and cash equivalents and $240.0 million in available-for-sale securities. While at December 31, 2013, our excess cash balances were invested in money market and U.S. Treasury securities, our investment policy as approved by our Board of Directors, also provides for investments in debt securities of U.S. government agencies, corporate debt securities and asset-backed securities. Our investment policy has the primary investment objectives of preservation of principal. However, there may be times when certain of the securities in our portfolio will fall below the credit ratings required in the policy. Although the U.S. Congress was able to resolve the debt ceiling issue in time to avoid default, the major credit rating agencies have expressed their ongoing concern about the high levels of debt that the U.S. government has taken on. Standard & Poor's announced that it had revised its outlook on the long-term credit rating of the U.S. to negative, which could affect the trading market for U.S. government securities. These factors could impact the liquidity or valuation of our available-for-sale securities, all of which were invested in U.S. Treasury securities as of December 31, 2013. If those securities are downgraded or impaired we would experience losses in the value of our portfolio which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. An investment in money market mutual funds is not insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any other government agency. Although money market mutual funds seek to preserve the value of the investment at $1 per share, it is possible to lose money by investing in money market mutual funds. Our involvement in securities-related class action and shareholder litigation could divert our resources and management's attention and harm our business. The stock markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the common stock of pharmaceutical companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In the past, securities-related class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies often experience significant stock price volatility in connection with their investigational drug candidate development programs, the review of marketing applications by regulatory authorities and the commercial launch of newly approved drugs. We are a defendant in federal and consolidated state shareholder derivative lawsuits. These securities-related class action lawsuits generally allege that we and our officers misled the investing public regarding the safety and efficacy of Qsymia and the prospects for the FDA's approval of the Qsymia NDA as a treatment for obesity. Securities-related class action litigation often is expensive and diverts management's attention and our financial resources, which could adversely affect our business. For example, despite the granting of the prior two motions to dismiss by the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California in a putative class action lawsuit captioned Kovtun v. Vivus, Inc., et al., Case No. 4:10-CV-04957-PJH, on October 26, 2012, plaintiff filed a Notice of Appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Briefing of the appeal is complete, and the parties are awaiting word on whether the Court of Appeals wishes to entertain oral argument. 65 Table of Contents Additionally, certain of our officers and directors are defendants in a shareholder derivative lawsuit captioned Turberg v. Logan, et al., Case No. CV-10-05271-PJH, pending in the same federal court. In the plaintiff's Verified Amended Shareholder Derivative Complaint filed June 3, 2011, the plaintiff largely restated the allegations of the Kovtun action. The same individuals are also named defendants in consolidated shareholder derivative suits pending in the California Superior Court, Santa Clara County under the caption In re VIVUS, Inc. Derivative Litigation, Master File No. 11 0 CV188439. The allegations in the state court derivative suits are substantially similar to the other lawsuits. We are named as a nominal defendant in these actions, neither of which seeks any recovery from the Company. The parties have agreed to stay the derivative lawsuits pending the outcome of the appeal of the securities class action. Furthermore, on July 12, 2013, certain of our current and former officers and directors were named as defendants in a separate shareholder derivative lawsuit filed in the California Superior Court, Santa Clara County and captioned Ira J. Gaines IRA, et al. v. Leland F. Wilson, et al., Case No.1-13-CV-249436. The lawsuit generally alleges breaches of the fiduciary duty of care in connection with the launch of Qsymia, breaches of the duty of loyalty and insider trading by some defendants for selling Company stock while purportedly being aware that the Qsymia launch would be less successful than predicted, and corporate waste. Again, we are named as a nominal defendant, and no recovery from the Company is sought. As with the other shareholder litigation, we have certain indemnification obligations to the named defendants, including to advance defense costs to the individuals. On October 21, 2013, the Company filed a demurrer seeking to have the lawsuit dismissed in its entirety for failure to make a pre-suit demand upon our Board of Directors or plead sufficient facts to show that such demand would have been futile. Briefing on the demurrer is complete and oral argument is presently scheduled for March 14, 2014. We have an accumulated deficit of $660.6 million as of December 31, 2013, and we may continue to incur substantial operating losses for the future. We have generated a cumulative net loss of $660.6 million for the period from our inception through December 31, 2013, and we anticipate losses in future years due to continued investment in our research and development programs. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve or maintain profitability or that we will be successful in the future. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes to offset future taxable income may be limited. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $545.1 million and $229.1 million of net operating loss, or NOL, carryforwards with which to offset our future taxable income for federal and state income tax reporting purposes, respectively. We used $121.2 million federal and $32.2 million state NOLs to offset our year ended December 31, 2007 federal and state taxable income, which included the $150.0 million in gain recognized from our sale of Evamist®. Utilization of our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, or Tax Attributes, may be subject to substantial annual limitations provided by the Internal Revenue Code and similar state provisions to the extent certain ownership changes are deemed to occur. Such an annual limitation could result in the expiration of the Tax Attributes before utilization. The Tax Attributes reflected above have not been reduced by any limitations. To the extent it is determined upon completion of the analysis that such limitations do apply, we will adjust the Tax Attributes accordingly. We face the risk that our ability to use our Tax Attributes will be substantially restricted if we undergo an "ownership change" as defined in Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, or Section 382. An ownership change under Section 382 would occur if "5-percent shareholders," within the meaning of Section 382, collectively increased their ownership in the Company by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. We have not completed a recent study to assess whether any change of control has occurred or whether there have been multiple changes of control 66 Table of Contents since the Company's formation, due to the significant complexity and cost associated with the study. We have completed studies in prior periods and concluded no adjustments were required. If we have experienced a change of control at any time since our formation, our NOL carryforwards and tax credits may not be available, or their utilization could be subject to an annual limitation under Section 382. A full valuation allowance has been provided against our NOL carryforwards, and if an adjustment is required, this adjustment would be offset by an adjustment to the valuation allowance. Accordingly, there would be no impact on the consolidated balance sheet or statement of operations. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities that could negatively impact our income tax provision, net income, and cash flow. We are subject to income taxes and other taxes in both the U.S. and the foreign jurisdictions in which we currently operate or have historically operated. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are subject to regular review and audit by U.S. tax authorities as well as subject to the prospective and retrospective effects of changing tax regulations and legislation. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination and settlement is made. Risks Relating to an Investment in our Common Stock Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to continue to be so. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate due to factors including, but not limited to: •our ability to meet the expectations of investors related to the commercialization of Qsymia and STENDRA; •our ability to find the right partner for expanded Qsymia commercial promotion to a broader primary care physician audience; •our ability to obtain marketing authorization by the European Commission for Qsiva in the EU through the centralized procedure; •the costs, timing and outcome of post-approval clinical studies which the FDA has required us to perform as part of the approval for Qsymia and STENDRA; •the substantial cost to expand into certified retail pharmacy locations and the cost required to maintain the REMS program for Qsymia; •results within the clinical trial programs for Qsymia and STENDRA or other results or decisions affecting the development of our investigational drug candidates; •announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; •approval of, or announcements of, other anti-obesity compounds in development; •publication of generic drug combination weight loss data by outside individuals or companies; •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial results; •our ability to obtain needed financing; •sales by insiders or major stockholders; 67 Table of Contents •economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad; •the volatility and liquidity of the financial markets; •comments by or changes in assessments of us or financial estimates by security analysts; •negative reports by the media or industry analysts on various aspects of our products, our performance and our future operations; •adverse regulatory actions or decisions; •any loss of key management; •deviations in our operating results from the estimates of securities analysts or other analyst comments; •discussions about us or our stock price by the financial and scientific press and in online investor communities; •investment activities employed by short sellers of our common stock; •developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; •reports of prescription data by us or from independent third parties for our products; •licensing, product, patent or securities litigation; and •public concern as to the safety and efficacy of our drugs or future investigational drug candidates developed by us. These factors and fluctuations, as well as political and other market conditions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain or recruit key employees, all of whom have been or will be granted stock options as an important part of their compensation packages. Our operating results are unpredictable and may fluctuate. If our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the trading price of our stock could decline. Our operating results will likely fluctuate from fiscal quarter to fiscal quarter, and from year to year, and are difficult to predict. Although we have commenced sales of Qsymia, we may never increase these sales or become profitable. In addition, although we have entered into License and Commercialization Agreements with Sanofi, Auxilium and Menarini, to commercialize avanafil for the treatment of ED on an exclusive basis in Africa, the Middle East, Turkey, and the CIS, including Russia, to commercialize and promote STENDRA for the treatment of ED in the U.S. and Canada, and to commercialize and promote SPEDRA for the treatment of ED in over 40 European countries, including the EU, plus Australia and New Zealand, respectively, we may not be successful in commercializing these drug products in these territories. Our operating expenses are largely independent of sales in any particular period. We believe that our quarterly and annual results of operations may be negatively affected by a variety of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, the level of patient demand for Qsymia and STENDRA, the ability of our distribution partners to process and ship product on a timely basis, the success of our third-party's manufacturing efforts to meet customer demand, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, investments in sales and marketing efforts to support the sales of Qsymia and STENDRA, investments in the research and development efforts, and expenditures we may incur to acquire additional products. 68 Table of Contents Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. Sales of our stock by our executive officers and directors, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our stock. We have also registered all common stock that we may issue under our employee benefits plans. As a result, these shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions under the securities laws. Some of our executive officers have adopted trading plans under SEC Rule 10b5-1 to dispose of a portion of their stock. Any of our executive officers or directors may adopt such trading plans in the future. If any of these events cause a large number of our shares to be sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital. Our charter documents and Delaware law could make an acquisition of our company difficult, even if an acquisition may benefit our stockholders. Our Board of Directors has adopted a Preferred Shares Rights Plan. The Preferred Shares Rights Plan has the effect of causing substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. The existence of the Preferred Shares Rights Plan could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable. Some provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws could delay or prevent a change in control of our Company. Some of these provisions: •authorize the issuance of preferred stock by the Board without prior stockholder approval, commonly referred to as "blank check" preferred stock, with rights senior to those of common stock; •prohibit stockholder actions by written consent; •specify procedures for director nominations by stockholders and submission of other proposals for consideration at stockholder meetings; and •eliminate cumulative voting in the election of directors. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These and other provisions in our charter documents could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 