Item 1A. Risk Factors Disruptions which began in 2008 in the global economy, the financial markets, and currency markets, as well as government responses to these disruptions, continue to adversely impact our business and results of operations. A slowdown in economic activity caused by the recession has reduced worldwide demand for our products. The general economic difficulties being experienced by our customers, reduced consumer demand for our procedures, the lack of availability of consumer credit for some of our customers, and the general reluctance of many of our current and prospective customers to spend significant amounts of money on capital equipment during these unstable economic times are adversely affecting the market in which we operate. Our total revenues declined by 29%, 31%, and 22% from 2007 to 2008, 2008 to 2009, and 2011 to 2012 (revenues in 2011 includes $29.8 million of royalty revenues from the settlement of the Candela/Syneron litigation described in "Item 3. Legal Proceedings"), respectively. Our total revenues increased by 5% from 2009 to 2010 and 62% from 2010 to 2011 (revenues in 2011 includes $29.8 million of royalty revenues from the settlement of the Candela/Syneron litigation mentioned above), but they may not continue to increase in future years. Distress in the financial markets has had an adverse impact on the availability of credit and liquidity resources. Certain preferred lessors have exited from our industry or declared bankruptcy. Many of our customers or potential customers are facing issues gaining access to sufficient credit, which is resulting or may result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us or to get financing at all. Lack of availability of consumer credit, a decrease in consumer confidence, and the general economic downturn is adversely impacting the market in which we operate. These factors are causing some customers to postpone buying decisions until economic conditions improve. The severity of the European sovereign debt crisis has caused the price of the euro to fluctuate widely over the past several years, and volatility increased in 2011 and 2012 due in part to concerns over the sovereign debt levels of certain European Union members (e.g. Greece, Ireland, Portugal) and the value of the euro. Approximately 18% and 21% of our Professional Product segment's product revenues in 2011 and 2012, respectively, were from European countries, most of them affected by the euro. A continued crisis could adversely impact our business and results of operations. We may not be successful in commercializing home-use, light-based devices with third parties. Managing the development, launch and direct sales to consumers of home-use, light-based devices with third parties diverts the attention of key personnel and management from our Professional Product segment. We may stop selling the PaloVia® Skin Renewing Laser® and may also stop manufacturing the PaloVia laser. If our commercialization efforts are unsuccessful or we stop manufacturing the PaloVia laser, it could have a material adverse impact on our business and our stock price could fall. At the end of 2010, we launched the PaloVia laser -- the first FDA-cleared, at-home laser clinically proven to reduce fine lines and wrinkles around the eyes. The commercialization of a home-use, light-based device was one of our goals for many years. Over the past two years, we have tested our PaloVia fractional laser technology in the United States in limited channels. However, we believe managing direct sales to the consumer market distracts management's attention and diverts corporate resources from our Professional Product segment. In the fourth quarter of 2012, we substantially reduced our consumer selling and marketing expenses as we actively seek to align ourselves with a worldwide consumer-based distributor or multiple distributors. We have engaged an investment banker to assist us in identifying and negotiating an arrangement with a distributor that has the network and skills to market and distribute our consumer technology. If we do not find a consumer-based distributor, we will be unable to achieve substantial revenue. Even if we find a consumer-based distributor, our ability to achieve significant revenues may be adversely affected by difficulties or delays in bringing home-use, light-based devices to market and keeping them on the market, the inability to obtain or enforce intellectual property protection, market acceptance of our new products, adverse events, product changes and high rates of customer returns. In addition, we face significant competition, including from companies that are much larger and better funded than us. Currently the PaloVia laser is the only product of its kind on the market in the United States, but other companies, namely Philips Electronics and Tria, sell similar products outside the United States and we believe are seeking FDA clearance to sell such products in the United States. In addition, in July 2012, Cynosure received FDA clearance to market a similar product in the United States. Cynosure developed this product with Unilever, a global consumer goods company, which is expected to commercially launch the product in 2013. Competing against such systems will be difficult. Other competitors have publicly announced their intent to enter the consumer market. Significant resources and the attention of key personnel and management have been and will likely continue to be directed to the development and commercialization of home-use devices. There are no guarantees that the PaloVia laser or any future home-use products will prove to be commercially successful or that Palomar will continue to manufacture, sell or distribute such devices. 16 In addition, the consumer product market is known for high rates of product returns and we have experienced high rates of product returns since our entrance into the consumer product market. The consumer product market is also known for product liability lawsuits. While we have not yet been subject to such lawsuits, if we were to be sued, litigation is unpredictable and we may not prevail in successfully defending our position. If we do not prevail in such litigation, we may be ordered to pay substantial damages. In addition, following litigation loss or an increase in adverse events or other problems among consumers, we could also decide to stop manufacturing, selling or distributing such products. Even if we prevail in litigation, significant legal costs and the distraction of management could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial position. We have limited experience manufacturing the PaloVia® Skin Renewing Laser® and consumable PaloVia Gel in commercial quantities, which could adversely impact our business. We began manufacturing our PaloVia laser and consumable PaloVia Gel during the second half of 2010. Because we have only limited experience in manufacturing in commercial quantities, we may encounter unforeseen situations that would result in delays or shortfalls. We face significant challenges and risk in manufacturing the PaloVia laser and consumable PaloVia Gel, including that production processes may have to change to accommodate any significant future expansion of our manufacturing operations and growth; key components are currently provided by single suppliers or a limited number of suppliers, and we do not maintain large inventory levels of these components; and we have limited experience manufacturing the PaloVia laser and consumable PaloVia Gel in compliance with FDA's Quality System Regulation. In October of 2012, one such single supplier filed for bankruptcy. We believe the remaining inventory level we have of the component provided by this supplier is sufficient to accommodate our manufacturing the PaloVia laser into late 2013. In the future, if we are able to partner with a consumer-based distributor, we will need to find another supplier or re-design the PaloVia laser such that the component is no longer necessary. Once we run out of inventory of this single source supplier component, we may not be able to continue to manufacture the PaloVia laser. If we are unable to keep up with demand for the PaloVia laser and consumable PaloVia Gel, our revenue could be impaired, market acceptance for the PaloVia laser and consumable PaloVia Gel could be adversely affected and our customers might instead purchase competitors' products. We have limited experience in operating in the consumer medical device market, which could adversely impact our business. We entered the consumer medical device market in the fourth quarter of 2010. Our limited experience in operating in this market has resulted in losses to date and could continue to negatively impact our business. We are selling our consumer medical device through new channels of distribution in which management does not have a significant amount of experience. Additionally, we are actively seeking to align ourselves with a worldwide consumer-based distributor or multiple distributors. We have engaged an investment banker to assist us in identifying and negotiating an arrangement with a distributor that has the network and skills to market and distribute our consumer technology. In operating in the consumer medical device market, we may encounter actual or perceived product quality, safety, or reliability problems, significant changes in consumer demand, high levels of product returns, and product liability issues which would divert management's attention from our core business. Entering the consumer medical device market has presented management with new accounting issues related to revenue recognition and estimating customer return rates at the end of each reporting period for future customer returns related to sales recorded prior to the end of the period. These accounting issues have warranted considerable management attention and additional accounting issues related to the consumer medical device market could divert management's attention from our core business. Our Aspire system with SlimLipo handpiece requires the use of consumable treatment tips and fiber delivery assemblies. These products could fail to generate significant revenue or achieve market acceptance. 17 In 2009, we completed the launch of the Aspire body sculpting system and SlimLipo handpiece. The SlimLipo handpiece is our first minimally invasive product and provides laser-assisted lipolysis. The SlimLipo handpiece requires the use of consumable, single-use treatment tips and a limited-use fiber delivery assembly. The future success of the Aspire system will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to increase and maintain sales of the Aspire system with SlimLipo handpiece as well as the consumable components. Several competing systems also require the use of consumable components. Other competing systems either do not require the use of consumable components or their consumable components allow for more usage before needing to be replaced. Competing against such systems may be more difficult. If third parties are able to supply our customers with consumable treatment tips and fiber delivery assemblies for the Aspire system with SlimLipo handpiece, our business could be adversely impacted. To ensure the proper operation of our products, our consumable treatment tips and fiber delivery assemblies are protected by an encryption technology that is designed to authenticate that the tips are supplied by us or by a supplier authorized by us. It is possible that a third party may be able to find methods of circumventing our encryption technology and other technological requirements, which ensure that only authorized tips are used with the Aspire system with SlimLipo handpiece. If a third party is able to supply consumable treatment tips and fibers to our customers, this could lead to a reduction in the safety or efficacy of treatments performed with the Aspire system and SlimLipo handpiece as we cannot control the quality or operation of such third party products. This could lead to an increase in product liability lawsuits, damage the Aspire brand, or result in loss of confidence in our products. In addition, a third party supply of consumable treatment tips and fibers to our customers could result in a reduction in the rate of sales and price of our consumable treatment tips and fiber delivery assemblies. If we do not continue to develop and commercialize new products and identify new markets for our products and technology, we may not remain competitive, and our revenues and operating results could suffer. The aesthetic light-based (both lasers and lamps) treatment system industry is subject to continuous technological development and product innovation. If we do not continue to be innovative in the development of new products and applications, our competitive position will likely deteriorate as other companies successfully design and commercialize new products and applications. We compete in the development, manufacture, marketing, sales and servicing of light-based devices with numerous other companies, some of which have substantially greater direct worldwide sales capabilities. Our products also face competition from medical treatments and products, prescription drugs and cosmetic topicals and procedures, such as electrolysis and waxing. If we are unable to develop and commercialize new products and identify new markets for our products and technology, our products and technology could become obsolete and our revenues and operating results could be adversely affected. Product liability suits could be brought against us due to a defective design, material or workmanship, due to misuse of our products, or due to other new and evolving theories of liability. These lawsuits could be expensive and time consuming and result in substantial damages to us and increases in our insurance rates. If our products are defectively designed, manufactured or labeled, contain defective components or are misused, we may become subject to substantial and costly litigation by our customers or their patients or clients. Furthermore, in the event that any of our products prove to be defectively designed and manufactured, we may be required to recall and redesign such products. Misusing our products or failing to adhere to operating guidelines for our products can cause severe burns or other damage to the eyes, skin or other tissue. We are routinely involved in claims related to the use of our products. In the medical device industry there has been an increase in lawsuits filed against manufacturers where plaintiffs are alleging liability based on relatively new strategies. For example, a lawsuit was filed against us alleging negligence based on our selling to entities and training individuals not permitted to purchase or use our products. As another example, lawsuits have been filed against our competitors and may be filed against us for failure to sufficiently train in the use of products or training in off-label treatments not covered by the FDA clearance for such products, even where such training is provided by third parties. In addition, a lawsuit has been filed against us and other lawsuits against competitors claiming involvement of sales representatives, other employees or consultants in the operation of the devices when the treatment was provided. Our new product the Skintel™ Melanin Reader™ works with our Palomar Icon™ System and Vectus™ system to provide suggested test spot settings based on how much melanin is in an individual's skin. Though this information is meant to assist clinicians and not to replace their judgment, plaintiffs may allege otherwise. Thus, the launch of the Skintel Melanin Reader may increase the number of lawsuits filed against us. Product liability claims could divert management's attention from our core business, be expensive to defend and result in sizable damage awards against us. Our current insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover these claims. Moreover, in the future, we may not be able to obtain insurance in amount or scope sufficient to provide us with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Any product liability claims brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing continuing coverage, could harm our reputation in the industry and reduce product sales. We would need to pay any product losses in excess of our insurance coverage out of cash reserves, harming our financial condition and adversely affecting our operating results. 18 Our products are subject to numerous medical device regulations. Compliance is expensive and time-consuming. Without necessary clearances, we may be unable to sell products and compete effectively. All of our current products are subject to FDA regulations for clinical testing, manufacturing, labeling, sale, distribution and promotion. Before a new product or a new use of or claim for an existing product can be marketed in the United States, we must obtain clearance from the FDA. In the event that we do not obtain FDA clearances, our ability to market products in the United States and revenue derived therefrom may be adversely affected. The types of medical devices that we seek to market in the U.S. generally must receive either "510(k) clearance" or "PMA approval" in advance from the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. The FDA's 510(k) clearance process can be expensive and usually takes from three to twelve months, but it can last longer. The process of obtaining PMA approval is much more costly and uncertain and generally takes from one to three years or even longer from the time the pre-market approval application is submitted to the FDA until an approval is obtained. In order to obtain pre-market approval and, in some cases, a 510(k) clearance, a product sponsor must conduct well-controlled clinical trials designed to test the safety and effectiveness of the product. Conducting clinical trials generally entails a long, expensive and uncertain process that is subject to delays and failure at any stage. The data obtained from clinical trials may be inadequate to support approval or clearance of a submission. In addition, the occurrence of unexpected findings in connection with clinical trials may prevent or delay obtaining approval or clearance. If we conduct clinical trials, they may be delayed or halted, or be inadequate to support approval or clearance, for numerous reasons, including: · FDA, other regulatory authorities or an institutional review board may place a clinical trial on hold; · patients may not enroll in clinical trials, or patient follow-up may not occur, at the rate we expect; · patients may not comply with trial protocols; · institutional review boards and third party clinical investigators may delay or reject our trial protocol; · third party clinical investigators may decline to participate in a trial or may not perform a trial on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical trial protocol, good clinical practices, or other FDA requirements; · third party organizations may not perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner; · regulatory inspections of our clinical trials or manufacturing facilities may, among other things, require us to undertake corrective action or suspend or terminate our clinical trials, or invalidate our clinical trials; · governmental regulations may change or administrative actions may occur that cause delays; and · the interim or final results of the clinical trials may be inconclusive or unfavorable as to safety or effectiveness. Medical devices may be marketed only for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. The FDA may not approve or clear indications that are necessary or desirable for successful commercialization, or may refuse our requests for 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval of new products, new intended uses or modifications to existing products. Our clearances can be revoked if safety or effectiveness problems develop. To date, the FDA has deemed our products eligible for the 510(k) clearance process. We believe that our products in development will receive similar treatment. However, we cannot be sure that the FDA will not impose the more burdensome PMA approval process upon one or more of our future products, nor can we be sure that 510(k) clearance or PMA approval will ever be obtained for any product we propose to market, and our failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to sell our products. We often seek FDA clearance for additional indications for use. Clinical trials in support of such clearances for additional indications may be costly and time-consuming. In the event that we do not obtain additional FDA clearances, our ability to market products in the United States and revenue derived therefrom may be adversely affected. Medical devices may be marketed only for the indications for which they are approved or cleared, and if we are found to be marketing our products for off-label or non-approved uses we might be subject to FDA enforcement action or have other resulting liability. 19 Our products are subject to similar regulations in many international markets. Complying with these regulations is necessary for our strategy of expanding the markets for sales of our products into these countries. Compliance with the regulatory clearance process in any country is expensive and time consuming. Regulatory clearances may necessitate clinical testing, limitations on the number of sales and limitations on the type of end user, among other things. In certain instances, these constraints can delay planned shipment schedules as design and engineering modifications are made in response to regulatory concerns and requests. We may not be able to obtain clearances in each country in a timely fashion or at all, and our failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to sell our products in those countries. After clearance or approval of our products, we are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, and if we fail to comply with FDA regulations, our business could suffer. Even after clearance or approval of a product, we are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including the requirements that our facility be registered and our devices listed with the agency. We are subject to Medical Device Reporting regulations, which require us to report to the FDA if our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. We must report corrections and removals to the FDA where the correction or removal was initiated to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act caused by the device that may present a risk to health, and we must maintain records of other corrections or removals. The FDA closely regulates promotion and advertising and our promotional and advertising activities could come under scrutiny. If the FDA objects to our promotional and advertising activities or finds that we failed to submit reports under the Medical Device Reporting regulations, for example, the FDA may allege our activities resulted in violations. The FDA and state authorities have broad enforcement powers. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action by the FDA or state agencies, which may include any of the following sanctions: · letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; · repair, replacement, refunds, recall or seizure of our products; · operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; · refusing or delaying our requests for 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval of new products or new intended uses; and · criminal prosecution. If any of these events were to occur, they could harm our business. Achieving complete compliance with FDA regulations is difficult, and if we fail to comply, we could be subject to FDA enforcement action or our business could suffer. We are subject to inspection and market surveillance by the FDA to determine compliance with regulatory requirements. The FDA's regulatory scheme is complex, especially the Quality System Regulation, which requires manufacturers to follow elaborate design, testing, control, documentation, and other quality assurance procedures. Because some of our products involve the use of lasers, those products also are covered by a performance standard for lasers set forth in FDA regulations. The laser performance standard imposes specific record keeping, reporting, product testing and product labeling requirements. These requirements include affixing warning labels to laser products as well as incorporating certain safety features in the design of laser products. The FDA enforces the Quality System Regulation and laser performance standards through periodic unannounced inspections. We have been, and anticipate in the future being, subject to such inspections. The complexity of the Quality System Regulation makes complete compliance difficult to achieve. Also, the determination as to whether a Quality System Regulation violation has occurred is often subjective. If the FDA finds that we have failed to comply with the Quality System Regulation or other applicable requirements or failed to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse Quality System Regulation inspection or comply with applicable laser performance standards, the agency can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, including a public warning letter or other stronger remedies, such as fines, injunctions, criminal and civil penalties, recall or seizure of our products, operating restrictions, partial suspension, or total shutdown of our production, refusing to permit the import or export of our products, delaying or refusing our requests for 510(k) clearance or PMA approval of new products, withdrawing product approvals already granted or criminal prosecution, any of which could cause our business and operating results to suffer. 20 We have modified some of our products and sold them under prior 510(k) clearances. The FDA could retroactively decide the modifications required new 510(k) clearances and require us to cease marketing and/or recall the modified products. Any modification to one of our 510(k) cleared devices that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance. We may be required to submit pre-clinical and clinical data depending on the nature of the changes. We may not be able to obtain additional 510(k) clearances or pre-market approvals for modifications to, or additional indications for, our existing products in a timely fashion, or at all. Delays in obtaining future clearances or approvals would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products into the market in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our revenue and operating results. We have modified some of our marketed devices, but we believe that new 510(k) clearances are not required. We cannot be certain that the FDA would agree with any of our decisions not to seek new 510(k) clearance. If the FDA requires us to seek new 510(k) clearance for any modification, we also may be required to cease marketing and/or recall the modified device until we obtain such 510(k) clearance. Federal regulatory reforms may adversely affect our ability to sell our products profitably. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the clearance or approval, manufacture and marketing of a device. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. Healthcare policy changes, including recently passed healthcare reform legislation, may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and cash flows. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010 were enacted into law in the U.S. in March 2010. As a U.S. headquartered company with significant sales in the U.S., this healthcare reform law may materially impact us. Certain provisions of the law will not be effective until 2014 and 2015 and there are many programs and requirements for which the details have not yet been fully established or consequences not fully understood. As currently enacted, the law imposes on medical device manufacturers an excise tax of 2.3% on U.S. sales of Class I, II and III medical devices beginning January 1, 2013. We are subject to this excise tax. In 2012, U.S. product revenues accounted for 48% of our professional product revenues and, therefore, this tax burden may have a material, negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, we cannot predict what healthcare programs and regulations will be ultimately implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect of any future legislation or regulation in the U.S. or internationally. However, any changes that increase the cost of selling medical devices could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and cash flows. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities, which could negatively impact our income tax provision, net loss, and cash flow. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities and to the prospective and retrospective effects of changing tax regulations and legislation. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements and may materially affect our income tax provision, net loss, and cash flows in the period in which such determination is made. Deferred tax assets are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. A valuation allowance reduces deferred tax assets to estimated realizable value, which assumes that it is more likely than not that we will be able to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain tax jurisdictions to realize the net carrying value. We review our deferred tax assets and valuation allowance on a quarterly basis. As part of our review, we consider positive and negative evidence, including cumulative results in recent years. As a result of our review in 2012, 2011, and 2010, we provided for a full valuation allowance against our U.S. and foreign deferred tax assets. 21 We anticipate we will continue to record a valuation allowance against the losses of certain jurisdictions, primarily federal and state, until such time as we are able to determine it is "more-likely-than-not" the deferred tax asset will be realized. Such position is dependent on whether there will be sufficient future taxable income to realize such deferred tax assets. We may also be subject to state regulations. State regulations, and changes to state regulations, may prevent sales to particular end users or may restrict use of professional products to particular end users or under particular supervision which may decrease revenues or prevent growth of revenues. Our Professional Products segment's products may also be subject to state regulations. Federal regulation allows our professional products to be sold to and used by licensed practitioners as determined on a state-by-state basis which complicates monitoring compliance. As a result, in some states, non-physicians may purchase and operate our professional products. In most states, it is within a physician's discretion to determine whom they can supervise in the operation of our professional products and the level of supervision. However, some states have specific regulations as to appropriate supervision and who may be supervised. A state could disagree with our decision to sell to a particular type of end user, change regulations to prevent sales or restrict use of our professional products to particular types of end users or change regulations as to supervision requirements. In several states, applicable regulations are in flux. Thus, state regulations and changes to state regulations may decrease revenues or prevent growth of revenues. Because we do not require training for all users of our products, and sell our products to non-physicians, there exists an increased potential for misuse of our products, which could harm our reputation and our business. Federal regulations allow us to sell our Professional Products segment's products to or on the order of practitioners licensed by the states. The definition of "licensed practitioners" varies from state to state. As a result, our professional products may be purchased or operated by physicians with varying levels of training and, in many states, by non-physicians, including nurse practitioners, chiropractors and technicians. Outside the United States, many jurisdictions do not require specific qualifications or training for purchasers or operators of our products. We do not supervise the procedures performed with our products. Our products come with an operator's manual. We and our distributors offer professional product training sessions, but neither we nor our distributors require purchasers or operators of our products to attend training sessions. The lack of required training and the purchase and use of our products by non-physicians may result in product misuse and adverse treatment outcomes, which could harm our reputation and expose us to costly product liability litigation. Failure to manage our relationships with third party researchers effectively may limit our access to new technology, increase the cost of licensing new technology, and divert management attention from our core business. We work with third-party researchers over whom we do not have absolute control to satisfactorily conduct and complete research on our behalf. When we work with third-party researchers we are also dependent upon them to grant us licensing terms, which may or may not be favorable, for products and technology they may develop. We provide research funding, light technology and optics know-how in return for licensing rights with respect to specific dermatologic and cosmetic applications and patents. In return for certain exclusive license rights, we have been and may in the future be subject to due diligence obligations in order to maintain such exclusivity. Our success will be dependent upon the results of research with our partners and meeting due diligence obligations. We cannot be sure that third-party researchers will agree with our interpretation of the terms of our agreements, that we will meet our due diligence obligations, or that such research agreements will provide us with marketable products in the future or that any of the products developed under these agreements will be profitable for us. If our new products do not gain market acceptance, our revenues and operating results could suffer. The commercial success of the Professional Product segment's products and technology we develop will depend upon the acceptance of these products by providers of aesthetic procedures and their patients and clients. The commercial success of the consumer products and technology we develop will depend on the acceptance of these products by consumers. It is difficult for us to predict how successful recently introduced products, or products we are currently developing, will be over the long term. If the products we develop do not gain market acceptance, our revenues and operating results could suffer. 22 We expect that many of the products we develop will be based upon new technologies or new applications of existing technologies. It may be difficult for us to achieve market acceptance of some of our products, particularly the first products that we introduce to the market based on new technologies or new applications of existing technologies. If demand for our professional aesthetic treatment systems by non-traditional physician customers does not develop as we expect, our revenues will suffer and our business will be harmed. We believe, and our growth expectations assume, that we and other companies selling professional light-based (lasers and lamps) aesthetic treatment systems have only begun to penetrate these markets and that our revenues from selling to this market will continue to increase. If our expectations as to the size of this market and our ability to sell our products to participants in this market are not correct, our revenues will suffer and our business will be harmed. If there is not sufficient consumer demand for the procedures performed with our products, practitioner and consumer demand for our products could decline, which would adversely affect our operating results. Most procedures performed using our professional aesthetic treatment systems are elective procedures that are not reimbursable through government or private health insurance. The cost of these elective procedures and the cost of our consumer products must be borne by the client. As a result, the decision to undergo a procedure that utilizes our products may be influenced by a number of factors, including: · consumer awareness of and demand for procedures and treatments; · the cost, safety and effectiveness of the procedure and of alternative treatments; · the success of our and our customers' sales and marketing efforts to purchasers of these procedures; and · consumer confidence, which may be affected by short-term or long-term economic and other conditions. If there is not sufficient demand for the procedures performed with our products, a weakening in the economy, or other factors, practitioner and consumer demand for our products may be reduced or buying decisions postponed, which would adversely affect our operating results. Our business and operations are experiencing rapid change. If we fail to effectively manage the changing market, our business and operating results could be harmed. We have experienced rapid change in the scope of our operations and the industry in which we operate. This change has placed significant demands on our management, as well as our financial and operational resources. If we do not effectively manage the changing market and its effect on our business, the efficiency of our operations and the quality of our products could suffer, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. To effectively manage this change, we will need to continue to: · implement appropriate operational, financial and management controls, systems and procedures; · change our manufacturing capacity and scale of production; · change our sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure and capabilities; and · provide adequate training and supervision to maintain high quality standards. Failure to receive shipments of critical components, some of which are from single suppliers, could reduce revenues and reduced reliability of critical components could increase expenses. We develop light-based systems that incorporate third-party components and we purchase some of these components from small, specialized vendors that are not well capitalized. We do not have long-term contracts with some of these third parties for the supply of parts. With regard to single source suppliers, we use scanner subassemblies and diode laser subassemblies to manufacture our PaloVia® Skin Renewing Laser®, we use diode laser subassemblies to manufacture our Aspire® body sculpting system with SlimLipo™ handpiece, and we use diode laser bars to manufacture our Vectus™ Laser. We depend exclusively at this time on sole source suppliers for these components, and although alternative suppliers exist, they could take months to qualify and implement. The scanner and diode laser subassemblies and laser diode bars are important to our business. A disruption in the delivery of these key components, or our inability to obtain substitute components or subassemblies from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, or our inability to obtain assembly or testing services could prevent us from manufacturing products and result in a decrease in revenue. In October 2012, the supplier of the scanner subassembly for the PaloVia laser filed for bankruptcy. We believe the remaining inventory level we have of the component provided by this supplier is sufficient to accommodate our manufacturing the PaloVia laser into late 2013. In the future, if we are able to partner with a consumer-based distributor, we will need to find another supplier or re-design the PaloVia laser such that the component is no longer necessary. Once we run out of inventory of this single source supplier component, we may not be able to continue to manufacture the PaloVia laser. We depend on an acceptable level of reliability for purchased components. Reliability below expectations for key components could have an adverse effect on inventory and inventory reserves. Any extended interruption in our supplies of third-party components could materially harm our business. 23 New regulations related to "conflict minerals" may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products. On August 22, 2012, the SEC adopted a new rule requiring disclosures by public companies of specified minerals, known as conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured. The new rule, which is effective for 2013 and requires a disclosure report to be filed by May 31, 2014, will require companies to perform due diligence, disclose and report whether or not such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo or an adjoining country. The new rule could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten. The number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited. In addition, there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. Within our supply chain, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. We are currently investigating the use of conflict materials within our supply chain. We forecast sales to determine requirements for components and materials used in our products and if our forecasts are incorrect, we may experience either delays in shipments or increased inventory costs. To manage our manufacturing operations with our suppliers, we forecast anticipated product orders and material requirements to predict our inventory needs and enter into purchase orders on the basis of these requirements. Our limited historical experience may not provide us with enough data to accurately predict future demand. If our business expands, our demand for components and materials would increase and our suppliers may be unable to meet our demand. If we overestimate our component and material requirements, we will have excess inventories, which would increase our expenses. If we underestimate our component and material requirements, we may have inadequate inventories, which could interrupt, delay, or prevent delivery of our products to our customers. Our proprietary technology has only limited protections, which may not prevent competitors from copying our new developments. This may impair our ability to compete effectively. We may expend significant resources enforcing our intellectual property rights to prevent such copying, or our intellectual property could be determined to be not infringed, invalid or unenforceable. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if we are not able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, licenses and confidentiality agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We own and license a variety of patents and patent applications in the United States and corresponding patents and patent applications in many foreign jurisdictions. Our pending and future patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not issue in a form that will be advantageous to us. Even if issued, patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of term of patent protection we may have for our products. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. We have granted certain patent licenses to several competitors, and in return for those license grants, we receive a significant ongoing royalty revenue stream. A few of these competitors entered into license agreements only after we sued them for patent infringement. We are currently enforcing certain of our patents against Tria Beauty, Inc. and Asclepion Laser Technologies GmbH ("Asclepion") and intend to enforce our intellectual property rights against other competitors in the future. We do not know how successful we will be in asserting our patents against Tria, Asclepion or other suspected infringers. Whether or not we are successful in the pending lawsuits, litigation consumes substantial amounts of our financial resources and diverts management's attention away from our core business. Public announcements concerning these lawsuits that are unfavorable to us may in the future result in significant declines in our stock price. An adverse ruling or judgment in these lawsuits could result in a loss of our significant ongoing royalty revenue stream and could also have a material adverse effect on license agreements with other companies both of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operation and cause our stock price to decline significantly. (For more information about our patent litigation, see "Item 3. Legal Proceedings.") 24 In addition to patented technology, we rely upon unpatented proprietary technology, processes and know-how. We generally enter into agreements with our employees and third parties with whom we work, including but not limited to consultants and vendors, to restrict access to, and distribution of, our proprietary information and define our intellectual property ownership rights. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology, proprietary information and know-how and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is difficult and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. If competitors are able to use our proprietary technology, our ability to compete effectively could be harmed and the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected. Costly and time consuming lawsuits may be necessary to enforce and defend patents issued or licensed exclusively to us, to protect our trade secrets and/or know-how or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of others' intellectual property rights. Such lawsuits may result in patents issued or licensed exclusively to us to be found invalid and unenforceable. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or our competitors also may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology and which do not infringe our patents. Claims by others that our products infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights could prevent us from manufacturing and selling some of our products or require us to pay royalties or incur substantial costs from litigation or development of non-infringing technology. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. The light-based cosmetic and dermatology industry in particular is characterized by a large number of patents and related litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Because our resources are limited and patent applications are maintained in secrecy for a period of time, we can conduct only limited searches to determine whether our technology infringes any patents or patent applications. Any claims for patent infringement, regardless of merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, cause shipment delays, require us to develop non-infringing technology or to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Although patent and intellectual property disputes in the light-based industry have often been settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with such arrangements may be substantial and often require the payment of ongoing royalties, which could have a negative impact on gross margins. There can be no assurance that necessary licenses would be available to us on satisfactory terms, or that we could redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement, if necessary. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling some of our product. Although we believe a loss is remote at the time of this filing, an unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We may not be able to successfully collect licensing royalties. Material portions of our revenues consist of royalties from sub-licensing patents licensed to us on an exclusive basis by MGH. These patents expire on February 1, 2015. If we are unable to collect our licensing royalties, our revenues will decline. In addition, our revenues will decline following expiration of such patents as we will no longer receive any royalties from such patents. Quarterly revenue or operating results could cause the price of our common stock to fall. Our quarterly revenue and operating results are difficult to predict and may swing sharply from quarter to quarter. If our quarterly revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or public market analysts, the price of our common stock could fall substantially. Our quarterly revenue is difficult to forecast for many reasons, some of which are outside of our control. For example, many factors are related to market supply and demand, including potential increases in the level and intensity of price competition between our competitors and us, potential decrease in demand for our products and possible delays in market acceptance of our new products. Other factors are related to our customers and include changes in or extensions of our customers' budgeting and purchasing cycles and changes in the timing of product sales in anticipation of new product introductions or enhancements by us or our competitors. Factors related to our operations may also cause quarterly revenue or operating results to fall below expectations, including our effectiveness in our manufacturing process, unsatisfactory performance of our distribution channels, service providers, or customer support organizations, and timing of any acquisitions and related costs. 25 Our effective income tax rate may vary significantly. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results of operations. Our future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by changing interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations, changes in estimates of prior years' items, changes in our deferred tax assets and related valuation allowances, future levels of research and development spending, stock option grants, deductions for employee stock option exercises being different than what we projected, and changes in overall levels of income before taxes. We may be unable to attract and retain key executives and research and development personnel that we need to succeed. As a small company with approximately 250 employees, our success depends on the services of key employees in executive and research and development positions. The loss of the services of one or more of these employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain, and motivate highly skilled employees. We cannot be certain that we will be able to do so. We face risks associated with product warranties. We could incur substantial costs as a result of product failures for which we are responsible under warranty obligations. Because we derive a significant amount of our revenue from international sales, we are susceptible to currency fluctuations, long payment cycles, credit risks, and other risks associated with conducting business overseas. We sell a significant amount of our products and services outside the United States. International product revenue consists of sales from our Australian, Japanese, German and Spanish subsidiaries, distributors in Japan, Europe, Asia, the Pacific Rim, and South and Central America and sales shipped directly to international locations from the United States. We expect that international sales will continue to be significant. As a result, a major part of our revenues and operating results could be adversely affected by risks associated with international sales, including but not limited to political and economic instability and difficulties in managing our foreign operations. In particular, longer payment cycles common in foreign markets, credit risk and delays in obtaining necessary import or foreign certification or regulatory approvals for products may occur. In addition, significant fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies could cause us to lower our prices and thus reduce our profitability, or could cause prospective customers to push out orders to later dates because of the increased relative cost of our products in the aftermath of a currency devaluation or currency fluctuation. We are subject to fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies. We do not actively hedge our exposure to currency rate fluctuations. While we transact business primarily in U.S. dollars and a significant proportion of our revenue is denominated in U.S. dollars, a portion of our costs and revenue is denominated in other currencies, such as the Euro, Australian dollar, and Japanese Yen. As a result, changes in the exchange rates of these currencies to the U.S. dollar will affect our results of operations. To successfully grow our international presence, we must address many issues with which we have little or no experience. We may not be able to properly manage our foreign subsidiaries which may have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. We have five international subsidiaries which are located in The Netherlands, Australia, Japan, Germany, and Spain. In managing foreign operations, we must address many issues with which we have little or no experience which exposes our business to additional risk. Our foreign operations redirect management's time from other operating issues. We may not be successful in operating our foreign subsidiaries. If we are unsuccessful in managing our foreign subsidiaries, the foreign subsidiaries could be unprofitable and negatively impact our resources and financial position. 26 We may not be able to sustain or increase profitability and we may seek additional financing to grow the business. Although we have generated profits during the periods of 2002 to 2007, in the third quarter of 2011, the full year of 2011, and in the fourth quarter of 2012, we have incurred losses from 2008 through the second quarter of 2011, as well as in the fourth quarter of 2011 and the full year of 2012, and have a history of losses. We may not be able to regain, sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis due to many factors including lower demand for our products by practitioners, for example, due to the weakening economy, the tightening of the credit market, and other factors. If our operating results fall below the expectations of investors or public market analysts, the price of our common stock could decline. We may determine, depending upon the opportunities available, to seek additional debt or equity financing to fund the costs of expansion. Additionally, if we incur indebtedness to fund increased levels of accounts receivable, finance the acquisition of capital equipment, or issue debt securities in connection with any acquisition, we will be subject to risks associated with incurring substantial additional indebtedness. The liquidity and market value of our investments may decrease. As of December 31, 2012, we held approximately $1.0 million of auction-rate securities ("ARS"). There have been disruptions in the market for auction-rate securities related to liquidity which has caused substantially all auctions to fail. All of our securities held as of December 31, 2012 failed in their last auction. We will not be able to access our investments in ARS until future auctions are successful, ARS are called for redemption by the issuers, or until we sell the securities in a secondary market. In the event that we are unable to sell the underlying securities at or above par, these securities may not provide us a liquid source of cash in the future. At December 31, 2012, due to the uncertainty and illiquidity in this market, we have classified our auction-rate securities as non-current assets and have recorded a cumulative unrealized loss of $0.2 million, net of taxes in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income. The recovery of these investments is based upon market factors which are not within our control. As of December 31, 2012, we do not intend to sell the ARS and it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the ARS before recovery of their amortized cost bases, which may be at maturity. Our common stock could be further diluted by the conversion of outstanding options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards, and restricted stock units. In the past, we have issued and still have outstanding convertible securities in the form of options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards and restricted stock units. We may continue to issue options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, and other equity rights as compensation for services and incentive compensation for our employees, directors and consultants or others who provide services to us. We have a substantial number of shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon the conversion and exercise of these securities. Such a conversion would dilute our stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our business and operating results could be adversely affected if our third party data protection measures are not seen as adequate, there are breaches of our security measures, or unintended disclosures of our third party data. As we conduct transactions online directly with customers and perform other processes necessary to operate our business, we may be the victim of fraudulent transactions, including credit card fraud, which presents a risk to our revenues and potentially disrupts service to our customers. In addition, we are collecting third party information, including personal information and credit card information. We take measures to protect and safeguard our third party data from unauthorized access or disclosure. Despite our best efforts, it is possible that our security controls over third party data may not prevent the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information. A security breach that leads to disclosure of third party information (including personally identifiable information) could harm our reputation, compel us to comply with disparate state breach notification laws and otherwise subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. A resulting perception that our company does not adequately protect the privacy of personal information could result in a loss of current or potential customers for our online offerings that require the collection of customer data. Our key business partners also face these same risks and we have no control over their security measures. Any security breaches of these key business partners' systems could adversely impact our ability to offer our products and services through their platforms, resulting in a loss of meaningful revenues. 27 If we are unable to protect our information technology infrastructure against service interruptions, data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, our business and operating results may suffer. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process and transmit sensitive electronic information and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including procurement and supply chain, manufacturing, distribution, and invoicing and collection of payments for our products. We use enterprise information technology systems to record, process, and summarize financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal, and tax requirements. Our information technology systems, some of which are managed by third-parties, may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors or catastrophic events. If our information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and we are unable to effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our business and operating results may suffer. Our charter documents, Delaware law and our shareholder rights plan may discourage potential takeover attempts. Our Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation and our Second Amended and Restated By-laws contain provisions that could discourage takeover attempts or make more difficult the acquisition of a substantial block of our common stock. Our By-laws require a stockholder to provide to our Secretary advance notice of director nominations and business to be brought by such stockholder before any annual or special meeting of stockholders, as well as certain information regarding such nomination and/or business, the stockholder and others known to support such proposal and any material interest they may have in the proposed business. They also provide that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the affirmative vote of a majority of the board of directors or the chief executive officer. These provisions could delay any stockholder actions that are favored by the holders of a majority of our outstanding stock until the next stockholders' meeting. In addition, the board of directors is authorized to issue shares of our common stock and preferred stock that, if issued, could dilute and adversely affect various rights of the holders of common stock and, in addition, could be used to discourage an unsolicited attempt to acquire control of us. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits us from engaging in a "business combination" with an "interested stockholder" for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person becomes an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. The application of Section 203 may limit the ability of stockholders to approve a transaction that they may deem to be in their best interests. These provisions of our Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Second Amended and Restated By-laws and the Delaware General Corporation Law could deter certain takeovers or tender offers or could delay or prevent certain changes in control or our management, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price. In April 1999, we adopted a shareholder rights agreement or "poison pill." This is intended to protect shareholders from unfair or coercive takeover practices. On October 28, 2008, we amended and restated the April 1999 shareholder rights agreement to (i) extend the expiration date to October 28, 2018, (ii) increase the purchase price to $200.00, (iii) amend the definition of "Acquiring Person" to exclude a "Person" qualified to file Schedule 13G as provided in the definition, (iv) amend the recitals to take account of the "Recapitalization" that occurred May 7, 1999, and (v) make any other additional changes deemed necessary. For more information, please see the Amended and Restated Rights Agreement dated October 28, 2008 filed as an exhibit to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 31, 2008. Any acquisitions that we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. From time to time, we evaluate potential strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses, products or technologies, as well as consider joint ventures and other collaborative projects. We may not be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates or strategic partners, or successfully negotiate, finance or integrate any businesses, products or technologies that we acquire. Any acquisition we pursue could diminish our cash available to us for other uses or be dilutive to our stockholders, and could divert management's time and resources from our core operations. Our stock price may be volatile. Our common stock price may be volatile. The stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: 28 · acceptance and success of new products or technologies; · the success of competitive products or technologies; · regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; · developments or disputes concerning patents or other foreign countries; · the recruitment or departure of key personnel; · variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; · market conditions in our industry and issuance of new or changed securities analyst's reports or recommendations; and general economic, industry and market conditions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 