Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are certain material risks that our management believes are specific to us and our business. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such potential risks and, as such, this list of risk factors should not be viewed as all-inclusive or in any particular order. An investment in shares of our common stock involves various risks. Before deciding to make an investment decision regarding our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this Form 10-K and information incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes which are set forth in Part II, Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks or by other risks that have not been identified or that the Company may believe are immaterial or unlikely. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business We face strong competition for customers, which could prevent us from obtaining customers and may cause us to pay higher interest rates to attract deposits and charge lower rates to obtain the loan volume we need to grow, any of which may reduce our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive and we experience competition in each of our markets from many other financial institutions, many of which are larger and may have significantly greater financial and other resources than we have. Specifically, we compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other mutual funds, as well as super-regional, national and international financial institutions, that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. Many of these competitors are also well-established financial institutions. Competitors that are not depository institutions are generally not subject to the extensive regulations that apply to us. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in 32 making loans. In addition, we must attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. There is a risk that we will not be able to compete successfully with these other financial institutions in our markets, and that we may have to pay higher interest rates to attract deposits or charge lower interest rates to obtain loan volume, resulting in reduced profitability. In new markets that we may enter, we will also compete against well-established community banks that have developed relationships within the community. Changes in interest rates may reduce our profitability. Our profitability depends in large part on our net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned from interest-earning assets, such as loans and mortgage-backed securities, and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Our net interest income will be adversely affected if market interest rates change such that the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest we earn on loans and investments. Many factors cause changes in interest rates, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. While we intend to manage the effects of changes in interest rates by adjusting the terms, maturities, and pricing of our assets and liabilities, our efforts may not be effective in a changing rate environment and our financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Interest rates were at historically low levels until June 2004 at which time the Federal Reserve began increasing short-term interest rates 17 times or 425 basis points through June 29, 2006. Beginning September 18, 2007, the Federal Reserve began an interest rate easing of 325 basis points through April 30, 2008. During this period, a flattening and slight inversion of the treasury yield curve caused by increasing short-term rates and lagging long-term rates had a negative impact on our net interest margin. In fiscal 2008, as short-term interest rates decreased, the Company experienced a positive effect to its net interest margin If short-term interest rates rise, and if rates on our deposits and borrowings re-price upwards faster than the rates on our long-term loans and investments, the Company may experience compression of our net interest margin, which will have a negative effect on our profitability. Our growth may require us to raise additional capital that may not be available when it is needed or may not be available on terms acceptable to us. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. To support our future continued growth, we may need to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend in part on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth could be materially impaired. In the event that we are able to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of common stock or other securities, the ownership interests of current investors would be diluted and the per share book value of our common stock may be diluted. New investors may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to the holders of our common stock, which may adversely affect the holders of our common stock. We may look to sell production assets, such as mortgage loans, into the secondary market as a means to manage the size of the balance sheet and manage the use of capital. The demand for these products in the capital markets is not driven by us and may not benefit us at the time we look to sell the loans. We are subject to extensive regulations that may limit or restrict our activities and the cost of compliance is high. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various regulatory agencies. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect the federal deposit insurance funds and depositors, not stockholders. Our compliance with these 33 regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to regulatory capital requirements, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. If we fail to meet these capital and other regulatory requirements, our ability to grow, our cost of funds and FDIC insurance, our ability to pay dividends on common stock, and our ability to make acquisitions could be materially and adversely affected. Congress and federal agencies continually review laws, regulations and policies applicable to the banking industry for possible changes, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because, like all banks and bank holding companies, government regulation greatly affects our business and financial results, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. See "Regulation" under Part I, Item 1 "Business" of this Form 10-K for a detailed discussion of regulation requirements. Changes in or interpretations of accounting standards may materially impact our financial statements. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and accompanying accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, interpretations and practices for many aspects of our business are complex and involve subjective judgments, including, but not limited to accounting for the allowance for loan and lease losses and pending and incurred but not reported health claims. Changes in these estimates or changes in other accounting rules and principles, or their interpretation, could significantly change our reported earnings and operating results, and could add significant volatility to those measures, without a comparable underlying change in cash flow from operations. Our success is influenced by growth in South Dakota and lack of growth or changes in national and South Dakota economic and political conditions could adversely affect our earnings, as our borrowers' ability to repay loans and the value of the collateral securing our loans decline and as loans and deposits decline. Our success and growth is significantly influenced by the growth in population and income levels and deposits in our primary market areas, which are mainly in South Dakota. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may be negatively affected. Additionally, there are inherent risks associated with our lending activities, including credit risk, which is the risk that borrowers may not repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing loans will decrease. Conditions such as inflation, recessions, unemployment, changes in interest rates and money supply and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans and the value of collateral securing the loans, which could adversely affect our earnings. Because our business operations and activities are concentrated in the State of South Dakota and most of our credit exposure is in that state, we are specifically at risk from adverse economic, political and business conditions that affect South Dakota. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolios, which could adversely affect our operating results. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. Although we believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date, the determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Accordingly, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results by decreasing our net income. In evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, we consider numerous quantitative factors, including our historical charge-off experience, growth of our loan portfolio, changes in the 34 composition of our loan portfolio and the volume of delinquent and criticized loans. In addition, we use information about specific borrower situations, including their financial position and estimated collateral values, to estimate the risk and amount of loss for those borrowers. Finally, we also consider many qualitative factors, including general and economic business conditions, duration of the current business cycle, current general market collateral valuations, trends apparent in any of the factors we take into account and other matters, which are by nature more subjective and fluid. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers' abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, competitive challenges and other factors. In considering information about specific borrower situations our analysis is subject to the risk that we are provided inaccurate or incomplete information. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, our actual losses may vary from our current estimates. Additionally, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or recognize loan charge-offs based upon their judgments, which may be different from ours. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs required by these regulatory authorities may adversely affect our operating results. The net realizable value of our investment securities could be lower than the fair value assigned under generally accepted accounting principles. We determine the fair value of our investment securities based on the most recent quoted market price for such securities as of the applicable balance sheet date. We use quoted market prices to determine the amount of any unrealized losses that may be reflected in our other comprehensive income and the net book value of our investment securities. The price at which a security could be sold in a market transaction could be significantly lower than the quoted market price for the security, particularly if the quoted market price is based on infrequent trading history, the market for the security is illiquid, or could be dependent on the size of the trade. The risk that there will be a material difference between the fair value that we assign to a security and its net realizable value is particularly significant for certain securities that we hold in our investment portfolio, including our "private label" collateralized mortgage obligation and our rated pooled trust preferred securities. If the net realizable value is lower than the fair value that we assign to a security, impairment losses could be required in the future. Our ability to secure wholesale funding to supplement core deposits may prove insufficient. We must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the obligations of our depositors and borrowers. As part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources to supplement our core deposit growth. These sources include brokered certificates of deposit, federal funds purchased, Federal Reserve Bank and FHLB advances. Adverse operating results or changes in industry conditions could lead to an inability to replace these additional funding sources at maturity. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. If we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs, and our profitability would be adversely affected. Our ability to retain and attract qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. Our people are our most important resource and competition for qualified employees is intense. In order to retain and attract qualified employees, we must compensate such employees at market levels. Typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest noninterest expense. In addition, because certain information concerning our employee compensation is included in our filings with the SEC and is, therefore, available to our competitors, we believe that our employees may be more highly recruited by our competitors. If we are unable to continue to retain and attract qualified employees, or if 35 compensation costs required to retain and attract qualified employees becomes more expensive, our performance, including our competitive position, could be affected. Our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. Our reputation is one of the most valuable components of our business. As such, we strive to conduct our business in a manner that enhances our reputation. This is done, in part, by recruiting, hiring and retaining employees who share our core values of being an integral part of the communities we serve, delivering superior service to our customers and caring about our customers and associates. If our reputation is negatively affected, by the actions of our employees or otherwise, our business and, therefore, our operating results may be materially adversely affected. Revenues from our Trust and Asset Management business are significant to our earnings. We believe that the revenues which are derived from our Trust and Asset Management business are significant to our business. The success of our Trust and Asset Management business is dependent on our ability to produce investment returns which meet the expectations of our clients. Administering or managing assets in accordance with the terms of governing documents and applicable laws is also important to client satisfaction. Our inability to succeed in either of the foregoing areas could negatively affect our revenues we receive from our Trust and Asset Management business. Natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, and other external events could significantly impact our business. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Shares The trading volume in our common stock has been low, and the sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could depress the price of our common stock and make it difficult for you to sell your shares. Our common stock is listed to trade on the NASDAQ Stock Market, but is thinly traded. As a result, you may not be able to sell your shares of common stock on short notice. Additionally, thinly traded stock can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock at one time could temporarily depress the market price of our common stock, making it difficult for you to sell your shares and impairing our ability to raise capital. Our ability to pay dividends depends primarily on dividends from our banking subsidiary, Home Federal Bank, which is subject to regulatory limits. We are a unitary thrift holding company and our operations are conducted primarily by our banking subsidiary, Home Federal Bank. Since we receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from Home Federal Bank, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock depends on our receipt of dividends from Home Federal Bank. Dividend payments from Home Federal Bank are subject to legal and regulatory limitations, generally based on net income and retained earnings. The ability of Home Federal Bank to pay dividends to us is also subject to its profitability, financial condition, capital expenditures and other cash flow requirements. There is no assurance that Home Federal Bank will be able to pay dividends to us in the future or that we will generate adequate cash flow to pay dividends in the future. The inability to receive dividends from Home Federal Bank could have an adverse affect on our business and financial conditions. Additionally, we may elect in the future to defer interest payments on our subordinated debentures payable to trusts. The indenture agreements prohibit dividend payments on common stock following the 36 deferral of interest payments on the subordinated debentures underlying trust preferred securities. Similarly, our failure to pay dividends on our common stock could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We are subject to security and operational risks relating to our use of technology that could damage our reputation and our business. Security breaches in our internet banking activities or other communication and information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on standard internet and other security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware and federal law, may discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition of control of us. Certain provisions included in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law and federal law, may discourage, delay or prevent potential acquisitions of control of us, particularly when attempted in a transaction that is not negotiated directly with, and approved by, our Board of Directors, despite possible benefits to our stockholders. Specifically, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include certain provisions that: •limit the voting power of shares held by a stockholder beneficially owning in excess of 10% of the then-outstanding shares of our common stock; •require that certain business combinations between us and a stockholder beneficially owning in excess of 10% of the then-outstanding shares of our common stock (i) be approved by at least 662/3% of the total number of our outstanding voting shares, voting as a single class, (ii) be approved by a majority of the Board of Directors serving prior to the 10% stockholder becoming such, or (iii) involve consideration per share generally equal to that paid by such 10% stockholder when such stockholder acquired his, her or its stock; •divide our Board of Directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms and provide that a director may only be removed prior to the expiration of a term for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of all of the then-outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote in an election of directors; •require that a special meeting of stockholders be called pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of our Board of Directors; •authorize the issuance of preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our Board of Directors; and •require that amendments to (i) our certificate of incorporation be approved by a two-thirds vote of our Board of Directors and by a majority of the outstanding shares of our voting stock or, with respect to the amendment of certain provisions (regarding, among other things, provisions relating to number, classification, election and removal of directors, amendment of the bylaws, call of special stockholder meetings, acquisitions of control, director liability, and certain business combinations), by 80% of the outstanding shares of our voting stock, and (ii) our bylaws be approved by a majority vote of our Board of Directors or the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the total votes eligible to be voted at a duly constituted meeting of stockholders. Furthermore, federal law requires OTS approval prior to any direct or indirect acquisition of "control" (as defined in OTS regulations) of the Bank, including any acquisition of control of us. 37 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 