Risk Factors” and Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” below, including those normally attending international and domestic operations, such as changes in economic 1 Table of Contents or political conditions, currency fluctuations, exchange control regulations and the effect of international relations and domestic affairs of foreign countries on the conduct of business, legal proceedings, and the availability and pricing of raw materials. Except as set forth below, no single customer represented 10% or more of our net sales or trade receivables at year end 2005 and 2004. However, our ten largest customers at year end 2005 represented approximately 20% of trade accounts receivable and consisted of six customers of our Office and Consumer Products segment, three customers of our Pressure-sensitive Materials segment and one customer of both these segments. The financial position and operations of these customers are monitored on an ongoing basis. (see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” of Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition”). United States export sales are not a significant part of our business. Backlogs are not considered material in the industries in which we compete. Corporate Governance and Information Related to SEC Filings Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge by way of a third-party hyperlink service through our Web site, www.averydennison.com (in the “Investors” section), as soon as reasonably practical after electronic filing with or furnishing of such material to the SEC. We make available at the Web site our (i) Corporate Governance Guidelines, (ii) Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, which applies to our directors and employees, (iii) Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers, (iv) the charters of the Audit, Compensation and Executive Personnel, and Nominating and Governance Committees of our Board of Directors, and (v) Audit Committee Complaint Handling Procedures. These materials are also available free of charge in print to stockholders who request them by writing to: Secretary, Avery Dennison Corporation, 150 North Orange Grove Boulevard, Pasadena, California 91103. The Board designated Richard M. Ferry as presiding director during 2005. He presided at executive sessions of the Board until December 1, 2005, when Kent Kresa was elected non-executive Chairman. Mr. Kresa now presides at executive sessions of the Board. During 2005, the Board held six executive sessions with non-management directors only during regularly scheduled Board meetings, as well as one additional executive session with independent directors only. Stockholders and other interested parties may write to Mr. Kresa concerning matters other than accounting and auditing c/o Secretary, Avery Dennison Corporation, 150 North Orange Grove Boulevard, Pasadena, California 91103. Stockholders may also write to John T. Cardis, Chairman of the Audit Committee, regarding accounting and auditing matters c/o Secretary at the same address. Pressure-sensitive Materials Segment The Pressure-sensitive Materials segment manufactures and sells Fasson-, JAC-, and Avery Dennison-brand pressure-sensitive materials, Avery-brand graphics and graphic films, Avery Dennison-brand reflective products, and performance polymers. The business of this segment is generally not seasonal, except for certain outdoor graphics and highway safety products and operations in Western Europe. Pressure-sensitive materials consist primarily of papers, plastic films, metal foils and fabrics, which are coated with Company-developed and purchased adhesives, and then laminated with specially coated backing papers and films. They are sold in roll or sheet form with either solid or patterned adhesive coatings, and are available in a wide range of face materials, sizes, thicknesses and adhesive properties. These materials are sold to label printers and converters for labeling, decorating, fastening, electronic data processing and special applications on a worldwide basis. Graphic products consist of a variety of films and other products sold to the architectural, commercial sign, digital printing, and other related markets. We also sell durable cast and reflective films to the construction, automotive, fleet transportation, scrim-reinforced vinyl material for banner sign applications, and reflective films and highway safety products for traffic and safety applications. Our graphic and reflective businesses are organized on a worldwide basis to serve the expanding commercial graphic arts market, 2 Table of Contents including wide-format digital printing applications. We also manufacture and sell proprietary films that are used for outdoor, weather-resistant applications. Performance polymer products include a range of solvent- and emulsion-based acrylic polymer adhesives, protective coatings and other polymer additives for internal use, as well as for sale to other companies. In this segment, our larger competitors are Raflatac, a subsidiary of UPM-Kymmene; Morgan Adhesives (“MACtac”), a division of the Bemis Company; and 3M Company (for graphic and reflective products). Entry of competitors into the field of pressure-sensitive adhesives and materials may be limited by capital requirements and a need for technical knowledge. We believe that our relative size and scale of operations, our ability to serve our customers with a broad line of quality products and service programs, our distribution and brand strength, and the development and commercialization of new products are among the more significant factors in developing and maintaining our competitive position. Office and Consumer Products Segment The Office and Consumer Products segment manufactures and sells a wide range of Avery-brand office and printable media products. The business of this segment is seasonal, with higher volume related to the back-to-school season. This segment’s products are generally sold through office products superstores, mass market distributors, wholesalers and dealers. We manufacture and sell a wide range of Avery-brand products for office, school and home uses: printable media, such as copier, ink-jet and laser printer labels, related computer software, ink-jet and laser printer card and index products; and organization, filing and presentation products, such as binders, dividers and sheet protectors. We also offer a wide range of other stationery products, including writing instruments, markers, adhesives and specialty products under brand names such as Avery, Marks-A-Lot and HI-LITER. The extent of product offerings varies by geographic market. In this segment, our larger competitors are Acco Brands Corporation, Esselte Corporation and manufacturers of private brands. We believe that our brand strength, a large installed base of software that facilitates the use of many of our products, our ability to serve our customers with a broad line of quality products, and the development and commercialization of new products are among the more significant factors in developing and maintaining our competitive position. Retail Information Services Segment The Retail Information Services segment designs, manufactures and sells a wide variety of price marking and brand identification products for retailers, apparel manufacturers, distributors and industrial customers on a worldwide basis. This business is seasonal, with higher volume in advance of the back-to-school and holiday shipping periods. Our brand identification products include woven and printed labels, graphic tags and barcode tags. Our information management products include price tickets, carton labels, RFID tags and printing applications for supply chain and security management. Our solution enabling products include barcode printers, molded plastic fastening and application devices and security management products. In this segment, our largest competitor is Paxar Corporation. We believe that our ability to serve our customers with product innovation, a comprehensive brand identification and information management product line, our global distribution network, service, quality, and geographic reach are the key advantages in developing and maintaining our competitive position. Other specialty converting businesses Other specialty converting businesses include our specialty tapes, industrial and automotive products, RFID and security printing businesses. These businesses manufacture and sell specialty tapes, highly engineered films, RFID inlays, pressure-sensitive postage stamps and other converted products. These 3 Table of Contents businesses are generally not seasonal, except for certain automotive products due to typical summer plant shutdowns by automotive manufacturers. The specialty tapes business manufactures and sells single- and double-coated tapes and adhesive transfer tapes for use in non-mechanical fastening, bonding and sealing systems in various industries, which are sold to industrial and medical original equipment manufacturers, converters, and disposable diaper producers worldwide. These products are sold in roll form and are available in a wide range of face materials, sizes, thicknesses and adhesive properties. Our industrial and automotive products businesses primarily consist of custom pressure-sensitive and heat-seal labels for the automotive and durable goods industries. These products are sold primarily to original equipment manufacturers. Our RFID business, manufactures RFID inlays and labels and makes use of our existing distribution by marketing to our label converter customers. Our security printing business manufactures and sells self-adhesive battery labels to a battery manufacturer, and self-adhesive stamps to the U.S. Postal Service. In addition, we sell specialty print-receptive films to the industrial label market, metallic dispersion products to the packaging industry and proprietary woodgrain and other patterns of film laminates for housing exteriors and interior and exterior automotive applications. We compete with a number of diverse businesses. Our largest competitor for this group of businesses is 3M Company in the specialty tapes business. Entry of competitors into these specialty converting businesses may be limited by capital and technical requirements. We believe that our ability to serve our customers with quality, cost effective products and the development and commercialization of new products are among the more significant factors in developing and maintaining our competitive position. Research and Development Many of our current products are the result of our research and development efforts. Our expenses for research, design and testing of new products and applications by our operating units and the Avery Research Center (the “Research Center”) located in Pasadena, California were $85.4 million in 2005, $81.8 million in 2004 and $74.3 million in 2003. A significant number of our research and development activities are conducted at the Research Center, which supports each of our operating segments. Our operating units’ research efforts are directed primarily toward developing new products and operating techniques and improving product performance, often in close association with customers. The Research Center supports our operating units’ patent and product development work, and focuses on improving adhesives, materials and coating processes, as well as related product applications and ventures. These efforts often focus on projects relating to printing and coating technologies and adhesive, release and ink chemistries. The loss of individual patents or licenses would not be material to us taken as a whole, nor to our operating segments individually. Our principal trademarks are Avery, Fasson, Avery Dennison and the Company’s symbol. These trademarks are significant in the markets in which our products compete. Three-Year Summary of Segment Information Certain financial information on our reporting segments and other specialty converting businesses for the three years ended December 31, 2005, which appear in Note 12 “Segment Information,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 61 of our 2005 Annual Report to Shareholders, are incorporated herein by reference. 4 Table of Contents Other Matters We use various raw materials, primarily paper, plastic films and resins, and specialty chemicals, which we purchase from a variety of commercial and industrial sources and which are subject to price fluctuations. Although from time to time shortages could occur, these raw materials currently are generally available. We produce a majority of our self-adhesive materials using water-based emulsion and hot-melt adhesive technologies. Emissions from these operations contain small amounts of volatile organic compounds, which can be regulated by agencies of federal, state, local and foreign governments. We continue to evaluate the use of alternative materials and technologies to minimize these emissions. A portion of our manufacturing process for self-adhesive materials utilizes certain organic solvents which, unless controlled, would be emitted into the atmosphere. Emissions of these substances are regulated by agencies of federal, state, local and foreign governments. In connection with the acquisition of certain manufacturing equipment, we invest in solvent capture and control units to assist in regulating these emissions. We have developed adhesives and adhesive processing systems. Emulsion adhesives, hot-melt adhesives or solventless silicone systems have been installed in our facilities in Peachtree City, Georgia; Fort Wayne and Greenfield, Indiana; and Quakertown, Pennsylvania; as well as in other plants in the United States, Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Colombia, France, Germany, India, Korea, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, South Africa, Thailand and United Kingdom. Based on current information, we do not believe that the costs of complying with applicable laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, will have a material effect upon our capital expenditures, consolidated financial position or results of operations. For information regarding our potential responsibility for cleanup costs at certain hazardous waste sites, see “Legal Proceedings” (see Part I, Item 3) and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition” (see Part II, Item 7). Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our ability to attain our goals and objectives is materially dependent on numerous factors and risks, including but not limited to, the following: Potential adverse developments in legal proceedings and investigations regarding competitive activities and other legal, compliance and regulatory matters, including those involving product liability, product and trade compliance, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act issues and other matters, could impact us materially. Our financial results could be materially adversely impacted by an unfavorable outcome to pending or future litigation and investigations, including, without limitation, any relating to the U.S. Department of Justice’s Antitrust Division (“DOJ”) criminal investigation, as well as the European Commission (“EC”), Canadian Department of Justice, and Australian Competition and Consumer Commission investigations, into industry competitive practices and any related proceedings or lawsuits pertaining to these investigations or to the subject matter thereof (including purported class actions in the United States seeking treble damages for alleged unlawful competitive practices, and purported class actions related to alleged disclosure and fiduciary duty violations pertaining to alleged unlawful competitive practices, which were filed after the announcement of the DOJ investigation, as well as a likely fine by the EC in respect of certain employee misconduct in Europe). See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” There can be no assurance that any investigation or litigation outcome will be favorable. The demand for our products is impacted by economic conditions of the principal countries in which we operate. A decline in the economies in these countries could have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. We have operations in over 40 countries and our domestic and international operations are strongly influenced by matters beyond our control, including changes in the political, social, economic, tax and 5 Table of Contents regulatory environments (including tariffs) in the countries in which we operate, as well as the impact of economic conditions on underlying demand for our products. In addition, approximately 55 percent of our sales are in foreign currencies, which fluctuate in relation to one another and to the United States dollar. Fluctuations in currencies can cause transaction, translation and other losses to us, which can negatively impact our sales and profitability. We operate in some highly competitive markets. If we do not compete effectively, we could lose market share and experience falling prices, adversely affecting our financial results. We are at risk that our competitors will expand in our key markets and implement new technologies making them more competitive. There is also the possibility that competitors will be able to offer additional products, services, lower prices, or other incentives that we cannot or will not offer or that will make our products less profitable. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. As a manufacturer, our sales and profitability are also dependent upon the cost and availability of raw materials and energy, which are subject to price fluctuations, and the ability to control or pass on costs of raw materials and labor. Inflationary and other increases in the costs of raw materials, labor and energy have occurred in the past and are expected to recur, and our performance depends in part on our ability to pass on to customers changes in costs in our selling prices for products and through improvements in productivity. Also, it is important that we are able to obtain timely delivery of materials, equipment, and packaging from suppliers. A disruption to our supply chain could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Our future results may be affected if we generate less productivity improvement than projected. We are undergoing efforts to reduce costs in many of our operations, including closure of facilities, headcount reductions, organizational simplification, process standardization, and using a variety of tools such as Lean Sigma and Kaizen events, to accomplish this productivity, which is not assured. Lower levels of productivity could result in lower production, sales, and profitability. Cost reduction actions, in turn, could expose us to additional production risk. Slower growth in key markets could adversely affect our profitability. Our business could be negatively impacted by a decline in key end use markets or applications for our products. Our overall performance will be influenced by these markets. Our customers are widely diversified, but in certain portions of our business, industry concentration has increased the importance and decreased the number of significant customers. In particular, sales of our office and consumer products in the United States are concentrated in a few major customers, principally office product superstores, mass market distributors and wholesalers. The business risk associated with this concentration, including increased credit risks for these and other customers, and the possibility of related bad debt write-offs, could negatively affect our margins and profits. Our ability to develop and successfully market new products and applications is important in maintaining growth. The timely introduction of new products and improvements in current products helps determine our success. Research and development for each of our operating segments is complex and uncertain and requires innovation and anticipation of market trends. We could focus on products that ultimately are not accepted by customers. 6 Table of Contents Infringing intellectual property rights of third parties or inadequately acquiring or protecting our intellectual property and patents could harm our ability to grow. Because our products involve complex technology and chemistry, we are sometimes involved in litigation involving patents and other intellectual property. Parties have filed, and in the future may file, claims against us alleging that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. We could be held to be liable to pay damages or obtain licenses. There can be no assurance that licenses will be available, and the cost to defend these infringement claims and to develop new technology could be significant. We also could have our intellectual property infringed. We attempt to protect and restrict access to our intellectual property and proprietary information, but it may be possible for a third party to obtain our information and develop similar technologies. In addition, many of the countries in which we operate have limited or no protection for intellectual property rights. The costs involved to protect our intellectual property rights could adversely impact our profitability. The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. Our estimate of the potential outcome of uncertain tax issues is subject to our assessment of relevant risks, facts, and circumstances existing at that time. Our future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax liabilities in the period the assessments are made or resolved, which may impact our effective tax rate and our financial results. The level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect our earnings in future periods. Assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for our pension plan and other postretirement benefit plans are evaluated by us in consultation with outside actuaries who we rely on as experts. In the event that we determine that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long term rate of return, or health care costs, our future pension and projected postretirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. Due to changing market conditions or changes in the participant population, the actuarial assumptions that we use may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on our pension and postretirement liability and related cost. We have acquired and may continue to acquire other companies. These acquisitions come with significant risks and uncertainties, including integration, technology and personnel. In order to grow our product lines and to expand into new markets, we have made acquisitions and may do so in the future. Many risks, uncertainties, and costs are associated with the acquisitions. The integration of systems, objectives, personnel, product lines, markets, customers, suppliers, and cost savings can be difficult to achieve and the results are uncertain. There can be no assurance that acquisitions will be successful and contribute to our profitability. In order for us to remain competitive it is important to recruit and retain highly-skilled employees. There is significant competition to recruit and retain skilled employees. Due to rapid expansion in certain markets and the ongoing productivity efforts and recent employee reductions, it may be difficult for us to retain and recruit sufficient numbers of highly-skilled employees. We need to comply with many environmental, health, and safety laws. Due to the nature of our business, we are subject to environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, including those related to the disposal of hazardous waste from our manufacturing processes. We have accrued liabilities for environmental clean-up sites, including sites for which governmental agencies have designated us as a potentially responsible party, where it is probable that a loss will be incurred and the cost or amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. However, because of the uncertainties associated with environmental assessment and remediation activities, future expense to remediate currently identified sites and other sites, which could be identified in the future for cleanup, could be higher than the liability currently accrued. 7 Table of Contents In order to mitigate risk, it is important that we obtain various types of insurance. We have various types of insurance including health, life, and property. Since the 9/11 terrorist attacks, insurance premiums have risen considerably and recent natural disasters will likely result in an additional increase in insurance premiums. As the cost of insurance continues to increase, our financial results could be adversely affected. Significant disruption to our information technology infrastructure could adversely impact our operations, sales, customer relations, and financial results. We rely on a large and complex information technology infrastructure to link our worldwide divisions. Like other information technology systems, ours is susceptible to damage or interruptions caused by natural disasters, power failures, viruses and security breaches. We upgrade and install new systems, which if installed or programmed incorrectly, could cause significant disruptions. If a disruption occurs, we could incur losses and costs for remediation and interruption of operations. Our share price has been volatile. Our stock price is influenced by changes in the overall stock market and demand for equity securities in general. Other factors, including market expectations for our performance, the level of perceived growth of our industries, and announcements concerning industry investigations, have also impacted our share price. There can be no assurance that our stock will be less volatile in the future. If our credit ratings are downgraded, we may have difficulty obtaining acceptable short- and long-term financing from capital markets. Credit ratings are a significant factor in our ability to raise short-term and long-term financing. The credit ratings assigned to us also impact the interest rates on our commercial paper and other borrowings. Standard and Poor’s (“S&P”) has assigned us a credit rating of A-2 for short-term and A- for long-term financing. S&P has given us a negative outlook. Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”) has assigned us a credit rating of P2 for short-term and A3 for long-term financing. Moody’s has given us a stable outlook. If our credit ratings were to be downgraded, our financial flexibility would decrease and the cost to borrow would increase. We have no assurance that the current credit ratings will be maintained. Our reputation, sales, and earnings could be affected adversely if the quality of our products and services does not meet customer expectations. There are occasions when we ship products with quality issues resulting from defective materials, manufacturing, packaging or design. Many of these issues are discovered before shipping but this causes delays in shipping, delays in the manufacturing process, and occasionally cancelled orders. When the issues are discovered after shipment, this causes additional shipping costs, possible discounts, possible refunds, and potential loss of future sales. Both pre-shipping and post-shipping quality issues can result in financial consequences along with a negative impact on our reputation. Some of our products are sold by third parties. Our products are not only sold by us, but by third party distributors and retailers as well. Some of our distributors also market products that compete with our products. Changes in the financial or business condition or purchasing decisions of these third parties could affect our sales and profitability. We outsource some of our manufacturing. If there are significant changes in the quality control or financial or business condition of these outsourced manufacturers, our business could be negatively impacted. We manufacture most of our products, but occasionally third-party manufacturers are needed for specialty jobs or capacity overflow. Outsourced manufacturers reduce our ability to control product failure, late deliveries, customer dissatisfaction and compliance with customer requirements for labor standards. Because of possible quality problems and customer dissatisfaction, outsourced manufacturers could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. 8 Table of Contents The risks described above are not exclusive. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be less significant may also have an adverse effect on us. If any of the above risks actually occur, our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition could suffer, which might cause the value of our securities to decline. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 