Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT OUR PERFORMANCE Our future performance is subject to a number of risks. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be harmed and the trading price of our common stock could decline. In evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and, therefore, you should not consider the following risks to be a complete statement of all the potential risks or uncertainties that we face. We are not able to predict sales in future quarters and a number of factors affect our periodic results, which makes our quarterly operating results less predictable. We are not able to accurately predict our sales in future quarters. Our revenue in the medical and veterinary markets is derived primarily by selling to distributors who resell our products to the ultimate user. While we are better able to predict sales of our reagent discs, as we sell these discs primarily for use with blood chemistry analyzers that we sold in prior periods, we generally are unable to predict with much certainty sales of our blood chemistry analyzers, as we typically sell our blood chemistry analyzers to new users. Accordingly, our sales in any one quarter are not indicative of our sales in any future period. We generally operate with a limited order backlog, because we ship our products shortly after we receive the orders from our customers. As a result, our product sales in any quarter are generally dependent on orders that we receive and ship in that quarter. We base our expense levels, which are to a large extent fixed, in part on our expectations as to future revenues. We may be unable to reduce our spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall. As a result, any such shortfall would immediately materially and adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. The sales cycle for our products can fluctuate, which may cause revenue and operating results to vary significantly from period to period. We believe this fluctuation is due primarily to (i) seasonal patterns in the decision making processes by our independent distributors and direct customers, (ii) inventory or timing considerations by our distributors and (iii) on the purchasing requirements of the U.S. Military to acquire our products. Accordingly, we believe that period to period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful. In the future, our periodic operating results may vary significantly depending on, but not limited to, a number of factors, including: • new product announcements made by us or our competitors; • changes in our pricing structures or the pricing structures of our competitors; • our ability to develop, introduce and market new products on a timely basis; • our manufacturing capacities and our ability to increase the scale of these capacities; • the mix of product sales between our blood chemistry analyzers and our reagent disc products; 14 Table of Contents • the amount we spend on research and development; and • changes in our strategy. We would fail to achieve anticipated revenue if the market does not accept our products. We believe that our core compact blood chemistry analyzer product differs substantially from current blood chemistry analyzers on the market. Our primary competition is from centralized laboratories that offer a greater number of tests than our products, but do so at a greater overall cost and require more time. We also compete with other point-of-care analyzers that cost more, require more maintenance and offer a narrower range of tests. However, these point-of-care analyzers are generally marketed by larger companies which have greater resources for sales and marketing, in addition to a recognized brand name and established distribution relationships. In the human medical market, we have relatively limited experience in large-scale sales of our Piccolo blood chemistry analyzers. Although we believe that our blood chemistry analyzers offer consumers many advantages, including substantial cost savings according to our analyses, in terms of implementation of the actual product, these advantages involve changes to current standard practices, such as using large clinical laboratories that will require changes in both the procedures and mindset of care providers. The human medical market in particular is highly regulated, structured, difficult to penetrate and often slow to adopt new product offerings. If we are unable to convince large numbers of medical clinics, hospitals and other point-of-care environments of the benefits of our Piccolo blood chemistry analyzers and our other products, we will suffer lost sales and could fail to achieve anticipated revenue. Historically, in the veterinary market, we have marketed our VetScan systems through both direct sales and distribution channels to veterinarians. We continue to develop new animal blood tests to expand and we cannot be assured that these tests will be accepted by the veterinary market. We could fail to achieve anticipated revenue if problems related to the manufacture of our new blood chemistry analyzers are not resolved. We manufacture our blood chemistry analyzers at our manufacturing facility in Union City, California. We are currently experiencing problems related to the manufacture of our new blood chemistry analyzer, which are primarily related to difficulties and delays in obtaining certain key components that we purchase from various suppliers. These manufacturing problems may be potentially related to quality control issues for key components that we obtain from our suppliers or to design issues of the key components required in our blood chemistry analyzer. Our difficulties in obtaining an adequate amount of quality components for the manufacture of our blood chemistry analyzer had a materially adverse impact on our sales of Vetscan chemistry analyzers in fiscal 2008. If we are unable to resolve these manufacturing problems on our new blood chemistry analyzer, we will not be able to manufacture sufficient quantities to meet anticipated demand and, therefore, will not be able to effectively market and sell our new blood chemistry analyzer; accordingly, our revenue and business would be materially adversely affected. We have invested a significant portion of our cash in auction rate securities, the market for which is currently illiquid. Funds associated with certain of our auction rate securities may not be accessible for an undetermined period of time and our auction rate securities may experience an other than temporary decline in value, which would adversely affect our statement of operations. Our marketable securities portfolio includes auction rate securities that are structured with short-term interest rate reset dates of generally less than 30 days, but with contractual maturities that can be well in excess of ten years or may never mature. At the end of each reset period, which occurs ranging from every seven to 28 days, depending on the security, investors can sell or continue to hold the securities at par. This mechanism has historically provided a liquid market for these securities. However, the recent negative conditions in the global credit markets have prevented some investors from liquidating their holdings of auction rate securities because the amount of securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders for such securities. At March 31, 2008, we held $37.0 million par value of our investments in auction rate securities for which the auctions had been unsuccessful. An auction failure, which is not a default in the underlying debt instrument, occurs when there are more sellers than 15 Table of Contents buyers at a scheduled interest rate auction date and parties desiring to sell their securities are unable to do so. If the credit market does not improve, auctions for our invested amounts may continue to fail. If an auction fails for securities in which we have invested, we may be unable to liquidate some or all of our auction rate securities at par, should we need or desire to access the funds invested in those securities. In the event we need or desire to access these funds, we will not be able to do so until a future auction on these investments is successful or a buyer is found outside the auction process. If a buyer is found but is unwilling to purchase the investments at par, we may incur a loss. Furthermore, if the issuers of the auction rate securities are unable to successfully complete future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may be required to adjust the carrying value of these investments by recording an impairment charge. There is no assurance as to when the market for auction rate securities will stabilize. The fair value of our auction rate securities could change significantly based on market conditions and continued uncertainties in the credit markets. If conditions in the credit markets deteriorate further causing additional auctions to fail, the funds associated with these auction rate securities may also not be accessible for an undetermined period of time, and we may be required to record losses or an impairment charge on our auction rate securities portfolio in future quarters, which would harm our financial condition. We rely on patents and other proprietary information, the loss of which would negatively affect our business. As of March 31, 2008, 36 patent applications have been filed on our behalf with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (“USPTO”), of which 30 patents have been issued and 29 patents are currently active. Additionally, we have filed several international patent applications covering the same subject matter as our domestic applications. The patent position of any medical device manufacturer, including us, is uncertain and may involve complex legal and factual issues. Consequently, we may not be issued any additional patents, either domestically or internationally. Furthermore, our patents may not provide significant proprietary protection because there is a chance that they will be circumvented or invalidated. We cannot be certain that we were the first creator of the inventions covered by our issued patents or pending patent applications, or that we were the first to file patent applications for these inventions, because (1) the USPTO maintains all patent applications that are not filed in any foreign jurisdictions in secrecy until it issues the patents (unless a patent application owner files a request for publication) and (2) publications of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tend to lag behind actual discoveries by several months. We may have to participate in interference proceedings, which are proceedings in front of the USPTO, to determine who will be issued a patent. These proceedings could be costly and could be decided against us. We also rely upon copyrights, trademarks and unpatented trade secrets. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques that would undermine our proprietary technologies. Further, others may gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technology. Although we require our employees, consultants and advisors to execute agreements that require that our corporate information be kept confidential and that any inventions by these individuals are property of Abaxis, there can be no assurance that these agreements will provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for our trade secrets in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. The unauthorized dissemination of our confidential information would negatively impact our business. We must continue to develop our sales, marketing and distribution experience in the human diagnostic market or our business will not grow. Although we have gained experience marketing our VetScan products in the veterinary diagnostic market, we have limited sales, marketing and distribution experience with our Piccolo chemistry analyzers in the human diagnostic market. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that: • we will be able to establish and maintain effective distribution arrangements in the human diagnostic market; • any distribution arrangements that we are able to establish will be successful in marketing our products; or • the costs associated with sales, marketing and distributing our products will not be excessive. 16 Table of Contents Should we fail to effectively develop our sales, marketing and distribution efforts, our growth will be limited and our results of operations will be adversely affected. We must increase sales of our Piccolo and VetScan products or we may not be able to maintain profitability. As of March 31, 2008, we had cumulative net losses of $3.0 million. Our ability to continue to be consistently profitable will depend, in part, on our ability to increase our sales volumes of our Piccolo and VetScan products. Increasing the sales volume of our products will depend upon, among other things, our ability to: • continue to improve our existing products and develop new and innovative products; • increase our sales and marketing activities; • effectively manage our manufacturing activities; and • effectively compete against current and future competitors. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully increase our sales volumes of our products to sustain profitability. We may inadvertently produce defective products, which may subject us to significant warranty liabilities or product liability claims and we may have insufficient product liability insurance to pay material uninsured claims. Our business exposes us to potential warranty and product liability risks which are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of human and veterinary medical products. We strive to apply sophisticated methods to raw materials and produce defect-free medical test equipment. Although we have established procedures for quality control on both the raw materials that we receive from suppliers and our manufactured final products, these procedures may prove inadequate to detect a defect that occurs in limited quantities, that we have not anticipated or otherwise. Our Piccolo and VetScan chemistry analyzers may be unable to detect all errors which could result in the misdiagnosis of human or veterinary patients. Should we inadvertently manufacture and ship defective products, we may be subject to substantial claims under our warranty policy or product liability laws. In addition, our policy is to credit medical providers for any defective product that we produce, including those reagent discs that are rejected by our Piccolo and VetScan chemistry analyzers. Therefore, even if a mass defect within a lot or lots of reagent discs were detected by our Piccolo and VetScan chemistry analyzers, the replacement of such reagent discs free of charge would be costly and could materially harm our financial condition. Further, in the event that a product defect is not detected in our Piccolo chemistry analyzer, our relatively recent expansion into the human medical market greatly increases the risk that the amount of damages involved with just one product defect would be material to our operations. We currently maintain limited product liability insurance that we believe is adequate for our current needs, taking into account the risks involved and cost of coverage. However, our product liability insurance and cash may be insufficient to cover potential liabilities. In addition, in the future the coverage that we require may be unavailable on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Even with our current insurance coverage, a mass product defect, product liability claim or recall could subject us to claims above the amount of our coverage and would materially adversely affect our business and our financial condition. We must effectively train and integrate the members of our sales team in order to achieve our anticipated revenue or expand our business. As of March 31, 2008, we had 72 full-time sales personnel directly involved in our sales and marketing activities, many of whom have been employed by us for a limited period of time. In addition, we experience significant turnover in our sales and marketing personnel. If we are to increase our direct sales, we will need to train new sales personnel and supervise them closely. We also will continue hiring additional sales personnel. If we are unable to retain our existing personnel, or attract and train additional qualified personnel, our growth may be limited due to our lack of resources to market our products. 17 Table of Contents We need to successfully manufacture and market additional reagent discs for the human diagnostic market if we are to compete in that market. We have developed a blood analysis system that consists of a portable blood analyzer and single-use reagent discs. Each reagent disc performs a series of standard blood tests. We believe that it is necessary to develop additional series of reagent discs with various tests for use with the Piccolo and VetScan chemistry analyzers. Historically, we have developed reagent discs suitable for the human medical and veterinary diagnostic markets. We have received 510(k) clearances from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) for 25 test methods in the human medical market. These tests are included in standard tests for which the medical community receives reimbursements from third-party payors such as HMOs and Medicare. We may not be able to successfully manufacture or market these reagent discs. Our failure to meet these challenges will materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We rely primarily on distributors to sell our products and we rely on sole distributor arrangements in a number of countries. Our failure to successfully develop and maintain these relationships could adversely affect our business. We sell our medical and veterinary products primarily through a limited number of distributors. As a result, we are dependent upon these distributors to sell our products and to assist us in promoting and creating a demand for our products. We operate on a purchase order basis with the distributors and the distributors are under no contractual obligation to continue carrying our products. Further, many of our distributors may carry our competitors’ products, and may promote our competitors’ products over our own products. We depend on a number of distributors in the United States who distribute our VetScan products. Our largest distributor in the United States, DVM Resources, accounted for 12% and 15% of our total worldwide revenues for fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively. While we continue to enter into arrangements with veterinary distributors, we have also terminated our distribution relationship with the veterinary division of Henry Schein in May 2006. While we have in the past, and expect to in the future, support those customers who were previously supplied products by Henry Schein through our current distributor base and direct service, the loss of these customers or other distributors may negatively affect our future revenues. Accordingly, if one or more of our distributors were to stop selling our products in the future, we may experience a sharp decline or delay in our sales revenue. In the United States medical market, we depend on a few distributors for our Piccolo products. We entered into formal distribution agreements with the following distributors to sell and market Piccolo chemistry analyzers and medical reagent discs: National Distribution & Contracting, Inc. in our third quarter of fiscal 2008, McKesson Medical-Surgical Inc. in our first quarter of fiscal 2008, Cardinal Health in our fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, Henry Schein’s Medical Group in our first quarter of fiscal 2007 and PSS World Medical, Inc. in our third quarter of fiscal 2006. We depend on these distributors to assist us in promoting market acceptance of our Piccolo chemistry analyzers. Internationally, we rely on only a few distributors for our products in both the medical and veterinary diagnostic markets. We terminated our distributor agreement with T. Chatani & Co., Ltd. in Japan in the first quarter of fiscal 2008 and, although T. Chatani & Co., Ltd has agreed to continue to service Abaxis customers, which includes selling our reagent discs and hematology reagent kits, for a limited period, our total product sales to T. Chatani & Co., Ltd. under the arrangement have significantly decreased and, as a result, our quarterly revenues has been adversely impacted. In October 2007, we signed an exclusive distribution agreement with Central Scientific Commerce, Inc. (“CSC”) to distribute the complete line of our medical and veterinary products in Japan. In the third quarter of fiscal 2008, CSC began the process of registering our new instruments, the VetScan VS2, VetScan HM5 and Piccolo xpress in Japan. The registration process was completed in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, and consequently, CSC can begin to import and market our instruments along with our reagent discs and kits. However, we cannot assure you that our new distribution relationship with CSC will be as successful as our prior distribution arrangement, or at all. Furthermore, an inability of, or any delays by, our distributor in receiving the necessary approvals for our new or other products can adversely impact our revenues in Japan. We currently rely on distributors that carry either our medical or veterinary products in the following countries: Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Belgium, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Ireland, 18 Table of Contents Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, Macao, the Netherlands, New Zealand, the Philippines, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom and the United States. Our distributors in each of these countries are responsible for obtaining the necessary approvals to sell our new and existing products. These distributors may not be successful in obtaining proper approvals for our new and existing products in their respective countries, and they may not be successful in marketing our products. We plan to continue to enter into additional distributor relationships to expand our international distribution base and solidify our international presence. However, we may not be successful in entering into additional distributor relationships on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, our distributors may terminate their relationship with us at any time. Historically, we have experienced a high degree of turnover among our international distributors. This turnover makes it difficult for us to establish a steady distribution network overseas. Consequently, we may not be successful in marketing our Piccolo and VetScan products internationally. We depend on sole suppliers for several key components in our products, many of whom we have not entered into contractual relationships with and failure of our suppliers to provide the components to us could harm our business. We use several key components that are currently available from limited or sole sources as discussed below: • Reagent Discs: Two injection-molding manufacturers, C. Brewer & Co. and Nypro, Inc., currently make the molded plastic discs which, when loaded with reagents and welded together, form our reagent disc products. We believe that only a few manufacturers are capable of producing these discs to the narrow tolerances that we require. To date, we have only qualified these two manufacturers to manufacture the molded plastic discs. • Reagent Chemicals: We currently depend on the following single source vendors for some of the chemicals that we use to produce the dry reagent chemistry beads that are either inserted in our reagent discs or sold as stand-alone products: Amano Enzyme USA Co., Ltd., Genzyme Corporation, Kikkoman Corporation Biochemical Division, Microgenics Corporation, Roche Molecular Biochemicals of Roche Diagnostics Corporation, a division of F. Hoffmann-La Roche, Ltd., Shinko American Inc. and Sigma Aldrich Inc. • Blood Chemistry Analyzer Components: Our blood analyzer products use several technologically-advanced components that we currently purchase from two single source vendors, PerkinElmer, Inc. and UDT Sensors (a division of OSI Optoelectronics). Our analyzers also use a printer that is primarily made by Seiko North America Corporation. The loss of the supply of any of these components could force us to redesign our blood chemistry analyzers. • Hematology Instruments and Reagents: Our hematology instruments are manufactured by Diatron Messtechnik GmbH in Hungary and are purchased by us as a completed instrument. In addition, to date, we have qualified only three suppliers to produce the reagents for our hematology instruments: Clinical Diagnostic Solutions, Inc., Diatron and Mallinckrodt Baker BV. We operate on a purchase order basis with all of the suppliers of our molded plastic reagent discs, reagent chemicals, blood chemistry analyzer components and hematology instruments and hematology reagents and, therefore, these suppliers are under no contractual obligation to supply us with their products or to do so at specified prices. Although we believe that there may be potential alternate suppliers available for these critical components, to date we have not qualified additional vendors beyond those referenced above and cannot assure you we would be able to enter into arrangements with additional vendors on favorable terms, or at all. Because we are dependent on a limited number of suppliers and manufacturers for critical components to our products, we are particularly susceptible to any interruption in the supply of these products or the viability of our assembly arrangements. The loss of any one of these suppliers or a disruption in our manufacturing arrangements could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents We may not be able to compete effectively with larger, more established entities or their products, or with future organizations or future products, which could cause our sales to decline. Blood analysis is a well-established field in which there are a number of competitors that have substantially greater financial resources and larger, more established marketing, sales and service organizations than we do. We compete with the following organizations: • commercial clinical laboratories; • hospitals’ clinical laboratories; and • manufacturers of bench top multi-test blood analyzers and other testing systems that health care providers can use “on-site” (a listing of our competitors is listed below). Historically, hospitals and commercial laboratories performed most human diagnostic testing, and commercial laboratories performed most veterinary medical testing. We have identified five principal factors that we believe customers typically use to evaluate our products and those of our competitors. These factors include: • range of tests offered; • immediacy of results; • cost effectiveness; • ease of use; and • reliability of results. We believe that we compete effectively on each of these factors except for the range of tests offered. Clinical laboratories are effective at processing large panels of tests using skilled technicians and complex equipment. While our current offering of reagent discs cannot provide the same broad range of tests, we believe that in certain markets our products provide a sufficient breadth of test menus to compete successfully with clinical laboratories given the advantages of our products with respect to the other four factors. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to compete effectively on cost effectiveness, ease of use, immediacy of results or reliability of results. We also cannot assure you that we will ever be able to compete effectively on the basis of range of tests offered. Competition in the human and veterinary diagnostic markets is intense. Our principal competitors in the human diagnostic market are Alfa Wassermann S.P.A., i-STAT Corporation (which was purchased by Abbott Laboratories), Johnson & Johnson (including its subsidiary, Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics, Inc.), Kodak (DT60 analyzer), Polymedco, Inc. and F. Hoffman-La Roche (Reflotron system). Our principal competitors in the veterinary diagnostic market are Idexx Laboratories, Inc. and Heska Corporation. Most of our competitors have significantly greater financial and other resources than we do. In particular, many of our competitors have large sales forces and well-established distribution channels. Consequently, we must develop our distribution channels and significantly improve our direct sales force in order to compete in these markets. Changes in third-party payor reimbursement regulations can negatively affect our business. By regulating the maximum amount of reimbursement they will provide for blood testing services, third-party payors, such as HMOs, pay-per-service insurance plans, Medicare and Medicaid, can indirectly affect the pricing or the relative attractiveness of our human testing products. For example, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (the “CMS”) set the level of reimbursement of fees for blood testing services for Medicare beneficiaries. If third-party payors decrease the reimbursement amounts for blood testing services, it may decrease the amount that physicians and hospitals are able to charge patients for such services. Consequently, we would need to charge less for our products. If the government and third-party payors do not provide for adequate coverage and reimbursement levels to allow health care providers to use our products, the demand for our products will decrease. 20 Table of Contents We are subject to numerous governmental regulations and regulatory changes are difficult to predict and may be damaging to our business. Need for FDA Certification for Our Medical Device Products Our Piccolo products are regulated under the 1976 Medical Device Amendments to the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, which is administered by the FDA. The FDA has classified our Piccolo products as “Class I” and “Class II” devices. These classifications require us to submit to the FDA a pre-market notification form or 510(k). The FDA uses the 510(k) to substantiate product claims that are made by medical device manufacturers prior to marketing. In our 510(k) notification, we must, among other things, establish that the product we plan to market is “substantially equivalent” to (1) a product that was on the market prior to the adoption of the 1976 Medical Device Amendment or (2) a product that the FDA has previously cleared under the 510(k) process. The FDA review process of a 510(k) notification can last anywhere from three to six months, and the FDA must issue a written order finding “substantial equivalence” before a company can market a medical device. As of March 31, 2008, we have received market clearance from the FDA for our Piccolo chemistry analyzer and 25 reagent tests that we have on 13 reagent discs. We are currently developing additional tests that we will have to clear with the FDA through the 510(k) notification procedures. These new test products are crucial for our success in the human medical market. If we do not receive 510(k) clearance for a particular product, we will not be able to market that product in the United States, which could harm our future sales. Need to Comply with Manufacturing Regulations The 1976 Medical Device Amendment also requires us to manufacture our Piccolo products in accordance with Good Manufacturing Practices guidelines. Current Good Manufacturing Practice requirements are set forth in the 21 CFR 820 Quality System Regulation. These requirements regulate the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for the design, manufacture, packaging, storage, installation and servicing of our medical devices intended for human use. Our manufacturing facility is subject to periodic inspections. In addition, various state regulatory agencies may regulate the manufacture of our products. To date, we have complied with the following federal, state, local and international regulatory requirements: • In April 2001, the State of California Food and Drug Branch granted our manufacturing facility “in compliance” status, based on the regulations for Good Manufacturing Practices for medical devices. • In May 2001, the State of California Food and Drug Branch granted licensing for our manufacturing facility in Union City, California. • In May 2002, we received our ISO 9001 certification, expanding our compliance with international quality standards. • In December 2003, we received ISO 13485 Quality System certification as required by the 2003 European In Vitro Device Directive. This certified our quality system specifically to medical devices. • In both March 2003 and September 2005, the FDA conducted a facility inspection and verified our compliance with the 21 CFR 820 Regulation. • In November 2006, we received our recertification to the ISO 13485:2003 Quality System Standard for medical devices. We cannot assure you that we will successfully pass any re-inspection by the FDA or the State of California. In addition, we cannot assure you that we can comply with all current or future government manufacturing requirements and regulations. If we are unable to comply with the regulations, or if we do not pass routine inspections, our business and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Effects of the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments on Our Products Our Piccolo products are also affected by the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (the “CLIA”) of 1988. The CLIA are intended to insure the quality and reliability of all medical testing in the United States 21 Table of Contents regardless of where the tests are performed. The current CLIA regulations divide laboratory tests into the following three categories: • waived; • moderately complex; and • highly complex. Many of the tests performed using the Piccolo chemistry analyzer are in the “moderately complex” category. This category requires that any location in which testing is performed be certified as a laboratory. Hence, we can only sell some Piccolo products to customers who meet the standards of a laboratory. To receive “laboratory” certification, a testing facility must be certified by the CMS. After the testing facility receives a “laboratory” certification, it must then meet the CLIA regulations. Because we can only sell some Piccolo products to testing facilities that are certified “laboratories,” the market for some products is correspondingly constrained. In October 2007, the FDA granted waived status under CLIA regulations for the following analytes when used in conjunction with the Piccolo xpress and Piccolo Classic chemistry analyzers for the medical market: chloride (CL-), potassium (K+), sodium (NA+) and total carbon dioxide (tCO2). Prior to the end of fiscal 2007, the FDA granted waived status under CLIA regulations for the following tests when used in conjunction with our Piccolo chemistry analyzer: alanine aminotransferase (ALT), albumin (ALB), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), amylase (AMY), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), calcium (CA), creatinine (CRE), gamma glutamyltransferase (GGT), glucose (GLU), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL), total bilirubin (TBIL), total protein (TP), triglycerides (TRIG), total cholesterol (CHOL), urea nitrogen (BUN) and uric acid (UA). Accordingly, we can offer the following Piccolo reagent discs as waived tests to the medical market: Basic Metabolic Panel, Comprehensive Metabolic Panel, Electrolyte Panel, General Chemistry 6, General Chemistry 13, Kidney Check, Lipid Panel, Lipid Panel Plus and Liver Panel Plus. Waived status permits untrained personnel to run the Piccolo chemistry analyzer using these tests; thus, extending the sites (doctors’ offices and other point-of-care environments) that can use the Piccolo chemistry analyzer. Although we are engaged in an active program to test and apply for CLIA waivers for additional analytes, we cannot assure you that we will successfully receive CLIA waived status from the FDA for other products. Consequently, for the reagent discs that have not received CLIA waived status, the market for our Piccolo products may be confined to those testing facilities that are certified as “laboratories” and our growth can be limited accordingly. Need to Comply with Various Federal, State, Local and International Regulations Federal, state, local and international regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of health care products and diagnostic devices may change. In addition, as we continue to sell in foreign markets, we may have to obtain additional governmental clearances in those markets. Foreign certifications that we have received include the following, among others: • In December 2003, we received certification from the British Standards Institute to the ISO 13485:1996 quality system standard for medical devices. This quality system certification, along with successful completion of product testing to 2003 European standards and the translation of Piccolo product documentation into the required languages, enabled us to meet the compliance requirements of the CE Mark and the 2003 European In Vitro Device Directive. • In September 2005, we received the Canadian Medical Device Conformity Assessment System stamp on our ISO 13485 certificate to signify compliance with Health Canada regulations. • In March 2006, we received our certification to the 2003 version of the ISO 13485 Quality System Standard for medical devices. • In November 2006, we received our recertification to the ISO 13485:2003 Quality System Standard for medical devices. 22 Table of Contents We cannot predict what impact, if any, such current or future regulatory changes would have on our business. We may not be able to obtain regulatory clearances for our products in the United States or in foreign markets, and the failure to obtain these regulatory clearances will materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Although we believe that we will be able to comply with all applicable regulations of the FDA and of the State of California, including the Quality System Regulation, current regulations depend on administrative interpretations. Future interpretations made by the FDA, CMS or other regulatory bodies may adversely affect our business. We have incurred and may continue to incur, in future periods, significant share-based compensation charges under SFAS No. 123(R), which may adversely affect our reported financial results. On April 1, 2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment” (“SFAS No. 123(R)”), issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, which requires the measurement of all share-based payments to employees, using a fair-value-based method and the recording of such expense in our results of operations. The fair value of restricted stock unit awards used in our expense recognition method is measured based on the number of shares granted and the closing market price of the Company’s common stock on the date of grant. Such value is recognized as an expense, net of an estimated forfeiture rate, for those shares expected to vest over the corresponding requisite service period. Our policy is to recognize the expense of restricted stock unit grants based on the vested portions of the awards. During fiscal 2007 and 2008, we granted restricted stock unit awards to employees based on the following time-based vesting schedule over a four-year period: five percent vesting after the first year; additional ten percent after the second year; additional 15 percent after the third year; and the remaining 70 percent after the fourth year of continuous employment. During fiscal 2007 and 2008, share-based compensation expense related to restricted stock units had a material impact on our earnings per share and on our financial statements and we expect that it will continue to adversely impact our reported results of operations, particularly in the fourth year of vesting for the restricted stock unit awarded to employees. As of March 31, 2008, our total unrecognized compensation expense related to restricted stock unit awards granted to employees and directors to date totaled $9.5 million. We depend on key members of our management and scientific staff and, if we fail to retain and recruit qualified individuals, our ability to execute our business strategy and generate sales would be harmed. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. The loss of any of these key personnel, including in particular Clinton H. Severson, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our Board of Directors, might impede the achievement of our business objectives. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain skilled and experienced marketing, sales and manufacturing personnel on acceptable terms in the future because numerous medical products and other high technology companies compete for the services of these qualified individuals. We currently do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our employees. We are subject to increasingly complex requirements from recent legislation requiring companies to evaluate internal control over financial reporting. Rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require an assessment of internal control over financial reporting by our management and an attestation of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting by an independent registered public accounting firm. We have an ongoing program to perform the assessment, testing and evaluation to comply with these requirements and we expect to continue to incur significant expenses to Section 404 compliance on an ongoing basis. Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of our fiscal years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007. Although we received an unqualified opinion on our financial statements for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007, and on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2008 and 2007, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. In the event that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under Section 404, or any failure to 23 Table of Contents implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in implementation could harm operating results or prevent us from accurately reporting financial results or cause a failure to meet our reporting obligations in the future. If management cannot assess internal control over financial reporting is effective, or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on such assessment, investor confidence and our share value may be negatively impacted. We may need additional funding in the future and these funds may not be available to us. We believe that our existing capital resources, available line of credit and anticipated revenue from the sales of our products will be adequate to satisfy our currently planned operating and financial requirements through the next 12 months, although no assurances can be given. The terms of our line of credit contain a number of covenants concerning financial tests that we must meet, and these tests are more fully explained under the subheading “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Further, we expect to incur incremental additional costs to support our future operations, including: • further commercialization of our products and development of new test methods to allow us to further penetrate the human diagnostic market and the veterinary diagnostic market; • our need to acquire capital equipment for our manufacturing facilities, which includes the ongoing costs related to the continuing development of our current and future products; • research and design costs related to the continuing development of our current and future products; and • additional pre-clinical testing and clinical trials for our current and future products. To the extent that our existing resources and anticipated revenue from the sale of our products are insufficient to fund our activities or if we are unable to meet the financial covenants of our line of credit, we may have to raise additional funds from the issuance of public or private securities. In the event that we cannot maintain compliance with these financial covenants, we may also be subject to increased interest rate expenses. We may not be able to raise additional funding, or if we are able to, we may not be able to raise funding on acceptable terms. We may also dilute then-existing shareholders if we raise additional funds by issuing new equity securities. Alternately, we may have to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, products and/or sales territories if we are required to obtain funds through arrangements with collaborative partners. If we are unable to raise needed funds, we may be required to curtail our operations significantly. This would materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We must comply with strict and potentially costly environmental regulations or we could pay significant fines. We are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and policies that govern the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge, handling and disposal of certain materials and wastes. In particular, we are subject to laws, rules and regulations governing the handling and disposal of biohazardous materials used in the development and testing of our products. We handle and dispose of human and veterinary blood samples for testing (whole blood, plasma, serum), which cost approximately $90,000 in fiscal 2008, and includes other environmental health and safety expenses to comply with applicable environmental regulations. Although we believe that we have complied with applicable laws and regulations in all material respects and have not been required to take any action to correct any noncompliance, we may have to incur significant costs to comply with environmental regulations if our manufacturing to commercial levels continues to increase. In addition, if a government agency determines that we have not complied with these laws, rules and regulations, we may have to pay significant fines and/or take remedial action that would be expensive and we do not carry environmental-related insurance coverage. 24 Table of Contents Our facilities and manufacturing operations are vulnerable to natural disasters and other unexpected losses; system failures or delays may harm our business. Our success depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our manufacturing operations, which are co-located with our corporate headquarters in Union City, California. A failure of manufacturing operations, be it in the development and manufacturing of our Piccolo or VetScan blood chemistry analyzers or the reagent discs used in the blood chemistry analyzers, could result in our inability to supply customer demand. We do not have a backup facility to provide redundant manufacturing capacity in the event of a system failure. Accordingly, if our location in Union City, California experienced a system failure or regulatory problem that temporarily shuts down our manufacturing facility, our manufacturing ability would become unavailable until we were able to bring an alternative facility online, a process which could take several weeks or even months. These manufacturing operations are also vulnerable to damage from earthquakes, fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. Although we carry property and business interruption insurance, our coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. Additionally, our computer servers may be vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and the possible lack of financial stability in foreign countries could prevent overseas sales growth. Our international sales are currently primarily U.S. dollar-denominated. As a result, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets. For the limited amount of our sales denominated in local currencies, we are subject to fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the particular local currency. Our operating results could also be adversely affected by the seasonality of international sales and the economic conditions of our overseas markets. Our operating results could be materially affected by unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities. Our determination of our tax liability (like any company’s determination of its tax liability) is subject to review by applicable tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of such a review could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the determination of our provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment including our determination of whether a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets is required. Although we believe our estimates and judgments are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. Our stock price is highly volatile and investing in our stock involves a high degree of risk, which could result in substantial losses for investors. The market price of our common stock, like the securities of many other medical products companies, fluctuates over a wide range, and will continue to be highly volatile in the future. During the quarter ended March 31, 2008, the closing sale prices of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market ranged from $20.89 to $37.88 per share and the closing sale price for our quarter ended March 31, 2008 was $23.17 per share. During the last eight fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2008, our stock price closed at a high of $39.74 on December 24, 2007 and a low of $16.82 on May 24, 2006 and May 30, 2006. Many factors may affect the market price of our common stock, including: • fluctuation in our operating results; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; • changes in governmental regulation in the United States and internationally; • prospects and proposals for health care reform; • governmental or third-party payors’ controls on prices that our customers may pay for our products; 25 Table of Contents • developments or disputes concerning our patents or our other proprietary rights; • product liability claims and public concern as to the safety of our devices or similar devices developed by our competitors; and • general market conditions. Because our stock price is so volatile, investing in our common stock is highly risky. A potential investor must be able to withstand the loss of his entire investment in our common stock. Our shareholders rights plan and our ability to issue preferred stock may delay or prevent a change of control of Abaxis. Our shareholder rights plan, adopted by our board of directors on April 22, 2003, may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of, Abaxis. The shareholder rights plan could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In addition, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the shareholders, except to the extent required by NASDAQ rules. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible financings or acquisitions or other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 