ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Fashion Risk The Company historically experienced fluctuations in customer response to its merchandise assortments. Future success depends on the Company’s ability to consistently anticipate, assess and react to the changing demands of its customer-base. As a private label merchandiser, the Company assumes certain risks, including long product lead times and high initial purchase commitments, that amplify the consequences of any miscalculation that it might make in anticipating fashion trends or interpreting them for customers. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to identify and offer merchandise that appeals to its customer-base or that the introduction of new merchandise will be successful or profitable. Brand Development Costs Future success depends upon the Company’s ability to effectively define, evolve and promote its brand. In order to achieve and maintain significant brand name recognition, it may become necessary to increase investments in the development of the brand through various means, including customer research, advertising, direct mail marketing and Internet marketing. There is no assurance that, if such funding becomes necessary, it will be available. Increased Competition All aspects of the women’s retail apparel and shoe businesses are highly competitive. Many of the competitors are units of large national chains that have substantially greater resources than the Company and are better known to shoppers. The Company’s competition includes other specialty retailers, mass merchants, department stores, discount stores, mail order companies, television shopping channels and Internet web sites. Management believes that total sales of large size women’s apparel from these sources of supply increased in recent years. Among specialty retailers for large size women like the Company, the competition includes large store chains that have announced long-term store growth plans to aggressively expand into additional strip shopping center locations. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain its market share in the face of increased competition. Other External Influences The following external factors could impact the Company’s operations: threats of terrorism; war risk; shifts in consumer spending patterns, overall economic conditions; variations in weather patterns; increases in interest rates; political instability and other risks associated with foreign sources of production and increases in fuel costs. Key Personnel Management believes that since the Company’s inception it has benefited substantially from the leadership of Raphael Benaroya, the Company’s Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer. The Company has an employment contract with Mr. Benaroya and believes that its relations with him are good. Nevertheless, there is no assurance that Mr. Benaroya will remain in the Company’s employ or that a suitable replacement could be recruited in a timely manner if he left. Future success depends on the Company’s ability to attract and retain talented associates engaged in creative activities, such as product design, product management, marketing, brand development and store design. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to attract and retain key associates in these key areas. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 