Risk Factors (All amounts are in millions, except per share data) You should consider the risks described below and elsewhere in our documents filed with the SEC before investing in any of our securities. Though we undertake no obligation to do so, we may amend, supplement or add to the risk factors described below from time to time in future reports filed with the SEC. Difficulties presented by international economic, political, legal, accounting, and business factors could negatively affect our interests and business effort. In 2006, approximately 40% of our revenues were generated outside the United States. Revenues originating from business units in Germany and the United Kingdom in 2006 were $624.2 and $243.4, respectively. We continue to increase our sales outside the United States, with a particular emphasis on expanding our presence in emerging markets, most notably China. As part of our strategy, we manage businesses with manufacturing facilities worldwide, many of which are located outside the United States. Our international operations require us to comply with the legal requirements of foreign jurisdictions and expose us to the political consequences of operating in foreign jurisdictions. Our foreign business operations also are subject to the following risks: · difficulty in managing, operating and marketing our international operations because of distance, as well as language and cultural differences; 6 · difficulty entering new international markets due to differing regulatory barriers, political systems or other barriers to business; · increased costs due to domestic and foreign customs and tariffs, potentially adverse tax consequences, including imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries, and transportation and shipping expenses; · credit risk or financial condition of local customers and distributors; · difficulties in staffing and labor disputes; · nationalization of private enterprises; · government embargos or foreign trade restrictions such as anti-dumping duties; · increased costs of transportation or shipping; · environmental and other laws and regulations; · ability to obtain supplies from foreign vendors and ship products internationally during times of crisis or otherwise; · difficulties in protecting intellectual property; · local, regional or worldwide hostilities; · potential imposition of restrictions on investments; and · local political, economic and social conditions, including the possibility of hyperinflationary conditions and political instability. A significant and growing portion of our products are manufactured in lower-cost locations and sold in various countries. Cross border transactions, both with external parties and intercompany relationships, result in increased exposure to foreign exchange effects. Increased strength of the U.S. dollar will increase the effective price of our products sold in U.S. dollars, which may have a material adverse effect on sales or require us to lower our prices and also decrease our reported revenues or margins in respect of sales conducted in foreign currencies to the extent we are unable or determine not to increase local currency prices. Likewise, decreased strength of the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on the cost of materials and products purchased overseas. In addition, our sales are translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes. In particular, a revaluation of the Chinese Yuan could result in an increase in the cost of producing products in China, or increases in labor costs. The strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar could result in unfavorable translation effects as the results of foreign locations are translated into U.S. dollars. As we continue to expand our international operations, these and other risks associated with international operations are likely to increase. In addition, as we enter new geographic markets, we may encounter significant competition from the primary participants in those markets who may have significantly greater market knowledge and substantially greater resources than we do. In particular, as an increasing percentage of our products are manufactured in China, health conditions and other factors affecting social and economic activity in China and affecting the movement of people and products into and from China to our major markets, including North America and Europe, could have a significant negative affect on our operations. Also, the imposition of trade sanctions by the United States or the European Union against a class of products imported by us from, or the loss of “normal trade relations” status with, China or other countries in which we conduct business could significantly increase our cost of products imported into the United States or Europe and harm our business. Because of the importance of our international sales and international sourcing of manufacturing to our business, if any of the risks described above were to occur it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We are subject to laws, regulations and potential liability relating to claims, complaints and proceedings, including those relating to environmental and other matters. We are subject to various laws, ordinances, regulations and other requirements of government authorities in the United States and other nations. With respect to acquisitions, divestitures and continuing operations, we may acquire or retain liabilities of which we are not aware, or of a different character or magnitude than expected. Additionally, changes in laws, ordinances, regulations or other governmental policies may significantly increase our expenses and liabilities. We face environmental exposures including, for example, those relating to discharges from and materials handled as part of our operations, the remediation of soil and groundwater contaminated by petroleum products or hazardous 7 substances or wastes, and the health and safety of our employees. We may be liable for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of certain hazardous substances or petroleum products on, under, or in our current or formerly owned property, or from a third-party disposal facility which we may have used, without regard to whether we knew of, or caused, the presence of the contaminants. The presence of, or failure to remediate properly, these substances may have adverse effects, including, for example, substantial investigative or remedial obligations and limitations on the ability to sell or rent affected property or to borrow funds using affected property as collateral. New or existing environmental matters or changes in environmental laws or policies could lead to material costs for environmental compliance or cleanup. There can be no assurance that these liabilities and costs will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. See Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion. We face numerous claims, complaints and proceedings. Class actions, derivative lawsuits and contract, intellectual property, competitive, personal injury, product liability, workers’ compensation and other claims have been filed or are pending against us and certain of our subsidiaries. In addition we from time to time face actions by governmental authorities, both in and outside the United States. Additionally, we may become subject to significant claims of which we are currently unaware or the claims of which we are aware may result in our incurring a significantly greater liability than we anticipate. Our insurance may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against potential loss exposures. In addition, we have been increasing our self-insurance limits over the past several years, which has increased our uninsured exposure. We devote significant time and expense to defense against the various claims, complaints and proceedings brought against us, and we cannot assure you that the expenses or distractions from operating our businesses arising from these defenses will not increase materially. We cannot assure you that our accruals and right to indemnity and insurance will be sufficient, that recoveries from insurance or indemnification claims will be available or that any of our current or future claims or other matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. See “MD&A — Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates — Contingent Liabilities.” The price of raw materials may adversely affect our results. We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including inflation in the prices of raw materials. In the last three years, we have faced significant changes in the prices of many of our key raw materials, including petroleum-based products, steel, and copper. Increases in the prices of raw materials may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows, as we may not be able to pass cost increases on to our customers. We operate in highly competitive industries. Our failure to compete effectively could harm our business. We operate in a highly competitive environment, competing on the basis of product offerings, technical capabilities, quality, service and pricing. We have a number of competitors, some of which are large, with substantial technological and financial resources, brand recognition and established relationships with global service providers. Some of our competitors have low cost structures, support from governments in their home countries, or both. In addition, new competitors may enter the industry. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. Competitors may be able to offer lower prices, additional products or services or a more attractive mix of products or services, or services or other incentives that we cannot or will not match or do not offer. These competitors may be in a stronger position to respond quickly to new or emerging technologies and may be able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, and make more attractive offers to potential customers, employees and strategic partners. Our strategy to outsource various elements of the products we sell subjects us to the business risks of our suppliers, which could have a material adverse impact on our operations. In areas where we depend on third-party suppliers for outsourced products or components, we are subject to the risk of customer dissatisfaction with the quality or performance of the products we sell because of supplier failure. In addition, business difficulties experienced by a third-party supplier can lead to the interruption of our ability to obtain the outsourced product and ultimately our inability to supply products to our customers. Third-party supplier business interruptions can include, but are not limited to, work stoppages, union negotiations and other labor disputes, as well as financial and credit difficulties. 8 A portion of our revenues is generated through long-term fixed-price contracts, which could expose us to various risks including the risks of cost overruns, inflation and credit and other counterparty risks. A portion of our revenues and earnings is generated through long-term fixed-price contracts. We recognize revenues from certain of these contracts using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting whereby revenue and expenses, and thereby profit, in a given period are determined based on our estimates as to the project status and the costs remaining to complete a particular project. Estimates of total revenues and cost at completion are subject to many variables, including the length of time to complete a contract. To the extent that we under-estimate the remaining cost to complete a project, we may overstate the revenues and profit in a particular period. Further, certain of these contracts provide for penalties for failure to timely perform our obligations under a contract, or require that we, at our expense, correct and remedy to the satisfaction of the other party certain defects. Because some of our long-term contracts are at a fixed price, we face the risk that cost overruns or inflation may erode, eliminate or exceed our expected profit margin, or cause us to take a loss on our projects. Additionally, even though we perform credit checks and conduct other due diligence on those with whom we do business, customers of our long-term contracts may suffer financial difficulties that make them unable to pay for a project when completed or they may decide, either as a matter of corporate decision-making or in response to changes in local laws and regulations, not to pay us. We cannot assure you that expenses or losses for uncollectible billings relating to our long-term fixed-price contracts will not have a material adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. Changes in both the funding of and accounting for pension and postretirement benefit plans may affect our results of operations and cash flows. As of December 31, 2006, our defined benefit pension and postretirement plans, including both qualified and non-qualified plans, were underfunded by $380.9. Of this amount, $42.8 related to our domestic qualified defined benefit pension plans. During 2006, the United States government passed into law the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (“PPA”). Among other things, the PPA requires plan sponsors to fund toward 100% of the underfunded status of domestic qualified defined benefit pension plans (with contributions phased in through 2011) and increased the annual premiums we pay to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. Additionally, during 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans — an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R)” (“SFAS No. 158”). This statement required us to recognize the underfunded status of our defined benefit pension and postretirement plans in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2006. SFAS No. 158 represents the culmination of phase one of the FASB’s project to re-address the accounting for defined benefit pension and postretirement plans, with the second phase of the project focused on the recognition of expense in the financial statements. As the specific annual funding requirements resulting from the PPA are not yet known, and the FASB’s project is ongoing, we are currently unable to accurately predict their impact on our future results of operations or cash flows. See “MD&A — Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates” for the impact that changes in certain assumptions used in the calculation of our costs and obligations associated with these plans could have on our results of operations and financial position. Furthermore, future changes in the funding of, accounting for, or other regulatory changes could have adverse impacts on our results of operation and cash flows. See Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements for the impact of adopting SFAS No. 158 as of December 31, 2006. Our failure to successfully complete acquisitions could negatively affect us. We may not be able to consummate desired acquisitions, which could materially impact our growth rate, results of operations, cash flows and stock price. Our ability to achieve our goals depends upon, among other things, our ability to identify and successfully acquire companies, businesses and product lines, to effectively integrate them and to achieve cost effectiveness. We may also be unable to raise any additional funds necessary to consummate these acquisitions. In addition, changes in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to consummate acquisitions. Competition for acquisitions in our business areas has been significant, and has in many cases resulted in higher prices for businesses, including businesses that we may target, which may also affect our acquisition rate or benefits achieved from our acquisitions. 9 Our failure to successfully integrate acquisitions could have a negative effect on our operations; our acquisitions could cause financial difficulties. As part of our business strategy, we evaluate potential acquisitions in the ordinary course, some of which could be and have been material. Our acquisitions involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: · adverse effects on our reported operating results due to charges to earnings, including impairment charges associated with goodwill and other intangibles; · diversion of management attention from running our businesses; · integration of technology, operations, personnel and financial and other systems; · increased expenses, including compensation expenses resulting from newly hired employees; · increased foreign operations, often with unique issues relating to corporate culture, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and other challenges; · assumption of known and unknown liabilities and exposure to litigation; · increased levels of debt or dilution to existing shareholders; and · potential disputes with the sellers of acquired businesses, technology, services or products. In addition, internal controls over financial reporting of acquired companies may not be up to required standards. Issues may exist that could rise to the level of significant deficiencies or, in some cases, material weaknesses, particularly with respect to foreign companies or non-public United States companies. Our integration activities may place substantial demands on our management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems. Customer dissatisfaction or performance problems with an acquired business, technology, service or product could also have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business. In addition, any acquired business, technology, service or product could under-perform relative to our expectations. We may not achieve the expected cost savings and other benefits of our acquisitions. We strive for and expect to achieve cost savings in connection with our acquisitions, including: (i) manufacturing process and supply chain rationalization, including plant closings in some cases; (ii) streamlining redundant administrative overhead and support activities; and (iii) restructuring and repositioning sales and marketing organizations to eliminate redundancies. Cost savings expectations are inherently estimates that are difficult to predict and are necessarily speculative in nature, and we cannot assure you that we will achieve expected, or any, cost savings. In addition, we cannot assure you that unforeseen factors will not offset the estimated cost savings or other benefits from our acquisitions. As a result, our actual cost savings, if any, and other anticipated benefits could be delayed and could significantly differ from our estimates and the other information contained in this report. Our failure to successfully complete dispositions could negatively us. We continually review each of our businesses in order to determine their long term strategic fit. As part of this strategy, we dispose of certain of our businesses in the ordinary course, some of which dispositions could be and have been material. Our dispositions involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from running our core businesses, increased expense associated with the dispositions and potential disputes with the acquirers of the disposed assets or businesses. If dispositions are not completed in a timely manner there may be a negative effect on our cash flows and/or our ability to execute our strategy. See Item 1. Business and Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements for the status of our divestitures. Increases in the number of shares of our outstanding common stock could adversely affect our common stock price or dilute our earnings per share. Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock into the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 4.8 shares of our common stock were issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options by employees and non-employee directors and we had the ability to issue up to an additional 6.5 shares as restricted stock, restricted stock units, or stock options under our 2002 Stock Compensation Plan. Additionally, we may issue a significant number of additional shares, in 10 connection with acquisitions or otherwise. We also have a shelf registration statement for 4.3 shares of common stock that may be issued in connection with acquisitions, and we have a shelf registration statement for a total of $1,000.0, which may be used in connection with an offering of debt securities, preferred securities and/or common stock for general corporate purposes. Additional shares issued will have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share. Our indebtedness may affect our business and may restrict our operating flexibility. At December 31, 2006, we had $964.6 in total indebtedness. On that same date, we had $255.4 of available borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facilities after giving effect to borrowings under our global revolving loan facility of $82.8 and to $111.8 reserved for outstanding letters of credit. In addition, we had $143.0 of available issuance capacity under our foreign trade facility after giving effect to $332.0 reserved for outstanding letters of credit. At December 31, 2006, our cash and equivalents balance was $477.2. See MD&A and Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future, including indebtedness incurred to finance, or which is assumed in connection with, acquisitions. We may in the future renegotiate or refinance our senior credit facilities, or enter into additional agreements that have different or more stringent terms. The level of our indebtedness could: · limit cash flow available for general corporate purposes, such as acquisitions and capital expenditures, due to the ongoing cash flow requirements for debt service; · limit our ability to obtain, or obtain on favorable terms, additional debt financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions; · limit our flexibility in reacting to competitive and other changes in the industry and economic conditions; · expose us to a risk that a substantial decrease in net operating cash flows due to economic developments or adverse developments in our business could make it difficult to meet debt service requirements; and · expose us to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations to the extent existing borrowings are, and any new borrowings may be at variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors beyond our control. In addition, we cannot assure you that future borrowings or equity financing will be available for the payment or refinancing of our indebtedness. If we are unable to service our indebtedness, whether in the ordinary course of business or upon acceleration of such indebtedness, we may pursue one or more alternative strategies, such as restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, revising implementation of or delaying strategic plans or seeking additional equity capital. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would enable us continue to satisfy our capital requirements, or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our various debt agreements. We may not be able to finance future needs or adapt our business plan to react to changes in economic or business conditions because of restrictions placed on us by our senior credit facilities and any existing or future instruments governing our other indebtedness. Our senior credit facilities and other agreements governing our other indebtedness contain, or may contain, a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our ability to make distributions or other payments to our investors and creditors unless certain financial tests or other criteria are satisfied. We also must comply with certain specified financial ratios and tests. Our subsidiaries may also be subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us. In addition, our senior credit facilities and any other agreements contain or may contain additional affirmative and negative covenants. Existing restrictions are described more fully under MD&A. Each of these restrictions could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities, such as acquisitions. If we do not comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our senior credit facilities and other agreements governing our indebtedness, we could be in default under those agreements, and the debt, together with accrued interest, could then be declared immediately due and payable. If we default under our senior credit facilities, the lenders could cause all our outstanding debt obligations under our senior credit facilities to become due and payable or require us to apply all of our cash to repay the indebtedness we owe. If our debt is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our debt or refinance it. 11 Even if we are able to obtain new financing, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. In addition, any default under our senior credit facilities or agreements governing our other indebtedness could lead to an acceleration of debt under other debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. If the indebtedness under our senior credit facilities is accelerated, we may not have sufficient assets to repay amounts due under our senior credit facilities, senior notes or other debt securities then outstanding. Our ability to comply with these provisions of our senior credit facilities and other agreements governing our other indebtedness will be affected by changes in the economic or business conditions or other events beyond our control. Complying with our covenants may also cause us to take actions that are not favorable to us and may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete, including against companies that are not subject to such restrictions. The loss of key personnel and any inability to attract and retain qualified employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are dependent on the continued services of our leadership team. The loss of these personnel without adequate replacement could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Additionally, we need qualified managers and skilled employees with technical and manufacturing industry experience in order to operate our business successfully. From time to time, there may be a shortage of skilled labor, which may make it more difficult and expensive for us to attract and retain qualified employees. If we were unable to attract and retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals or our costs to do so were to increase significantly, our operations could be materially adversely affected. Many of the industries in which we operate are cyclical, and our results will be and have been affected as a result. Many of the business areas in which we operate are subject to specific industry and general economic cycles. Certain businesses are subject to industry cycles, including, but not limited to: · The electric power and infrastructure markets, which influence our Thermal Equipment and Services and Industrial Products and Services segments. · Demand for cooling systems and towers within our Thermal Equipment and Services segment is correlated to contract timing on large construction contracts, which may cause significant fluctuations from period to period. Accordingly, any downturn or competitive pricing pressures in those or other markets in which we participate could adversely affect us. · The chemical and petrochemical markets, which influence our Flow Technology segment. Cyclical changes could also affect sales of products in our other businesses. The downturns in the business cycles of our different operations may occur at the same time, which could exacerbate any material adverse effects to our business. See “MD&A — Segment Results of Operations.” In addition, certain of our businesses have seasonal fluctuations. Historically, our businesses generally tend to be stronger in the second half of the year. Our business is subject to changes in the economy. Certain of our businesses have been affected in various years by difficult economic conditions. There can be no assurance that the economy will not worsen or that we will be able to sustain existing cost structures or create additional cost reductions to offset economic conditions, or that the unpredictability and changes in the markets in which we participate will not adversely impact our results. Cost reduction actions often result in charges against earnings. We expect to take charges against earnings in 2007 in connection with implementing additional cost reduction actions at certain of our businesses. These charges can vary significantly from period to period and, as a result, we may experience fluctuations in our reported net income and earnings per share due to the timing of restructuring actions, which in turn can have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. If the fair value of any of our reporting units is insufficient to recover the carrying value of the goodwill and other intangibles of the respective reporting unit, a material non-cash charge to earnings could result. In two of the past three years we have recorded material non-cash charges to earnings to impair the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. At December 31, 2006, we had goodwill and other intangible assets of $2,250.2. We account for goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles in accordance with SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (“SFAS No. 142”). SFAS No. 142 states that goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are not amortized, but are instead reviewed for impairment annually (or more frequently if impairment indicators arise). We conduct annual impairment testing to determine if we will be able to recover all or a portion of the carrying value of goodwill and indefinite lived 12 intangibles. In addition, we review goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment more frequently if impairment indicators arise. If the fair value is insufficient to recover the carrying value of our goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles, we may be required to record a material non-cash charge to earnings. Consistent with the requirements of SFAS No. 142, the fair values of our reporting units generally are based on discounted cash flow projections that are believed to be reasonable under current and forecasted circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about carrying values of the reported net assets of our reporting units. Other considerations are also incorporated, including comparable industry price multiples. Many of our businesses closely follow changes in the industries and end-markets that they serve. Accordingly, we consider estimates and judgments that affect the future cash flow projections, including principal methods of competition such as volume, price, service, product performance and technical innovations and estimates associated with cost improvement initiatives, capacity utilization, and assumptions for inflation and foreign currency changes. We monitor impairment indicators across all of our businesses. Any significant change in market conditions and estimates or judgments used to determine expected future cash flows that indicate a reduction in carrying value may give rise to impairment in the period that the change becomes known. We are subject to work stoppages, union negotiations, labor disputes and other matters associated with our labor force, which may adversely impact our operations and cause us to incur incremental costs. At December 31, 2006, we had approximately 14,300 employees associated with businesses that have been classified in our consolidated financial statements as continuing operations. Additionally, we had approximately 1,100 employees associated with a business that we intend to sell in 2007 and have classified in our consolidated financial statements as a discontinued operation. Eleven domestic collective bargaining agreements cover approximately 1,200 employees, none of which relate to the business classified in our consolidated financial statements as a discontinued operation. We also have various collective labor arrangements covering certain non-U.S. employee groups. We are subject to potential union campaigns, work stoppages, union negotiations and other potential labor disputes. Further, we may be subject to work stoppages, which are beyond our control, at our suppliers or customers. Our technology is important to our success, and failure to develop new products may result in a significant competitive disadvantage. Because many of our products rely on proprietary technology, we believe that the development and protection of our intellectual property rights is critical to the success of our business. In order to maintain our market positions and margins, we need to continually develop and introduce high quality, technologically advanced and cost effective products on a timely basis. The failure to do so could result in a significant competitive disadvantage. Additionally, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties or competitors may copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. The steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Expenses in connection with defending our rights may be material. Our current and planned products may contain defects or errors that are detected only after delivery to customers. If that occurs, our reputation may be harmed and we may face additional costs. There is no assurance that our product development, manufacturing and integration testing will be adequate to detect all defects, errors, failures and quality issues that could impact customer satisfaction or result in claims against us with regard to our products. As a result, we may have to replace certain components and/or provide remediation in response to the discovery of defects in products that are shipped. The occurrence of any defects, errors, failures or quality issues could result in cancellation of orders, product returns, diversion of our resources, legal actions by our customers or our customers’ end users and other losses to us or to our customers or end users, and could also result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products and loss of sales, which would harm our business and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent a change in control of our company, and, accordingly, we may not consummate a transaction that our shareholders consider favorable. Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws may inhibit changes in our control not approved by our Board. These provisions include, for example: a staggered board of directors; a prohibition on shareholder action by written consent; a requirement that special shareholder meetings be called only by our Chairman, President or our Board; advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations; limitations on shareholders’ ability to amend, alter or repeal 13 the By-laws; enhanced voting requirements for certain business combinations involving substantial shareholders; the authority of our Board to issue, without shareholder approval, preferred stock with terms determined in its discretion; and limitations on shareholders ability to remove directors. In addition, we are afforded the protections of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could have similar effects. In general, Section 203 prohibits us from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested shareholder” (each as defined in Section 203) for at least three years after the time the person became an interested shareholder unless certain conditions are met. These protective provisions could result in our not consummating a transaction that our shareholders consider favorable or discourage entities from attempting to acquire us, potentially at a significant premium to our then-existing stock price. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 