ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information included and incorporated by reference in this Annual Report, including the risk factors listed below. Any of these risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the trading price of shares of our common stock. Additional risks not currently known or currently material to us may also harm our business. Keep these risk factors in mind when you read forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report and the document incorporated by reference in this Annual Report. These statements relate to our expectations about future events and time periods. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential,” “continue” or “opportunity,” the negative of these words or words of similar import. Similarly, statements that describe our reserves and our future plans, strategies, intentions, expectations, objectives, goals or prospects are also forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and future events and circumstances could differ significantly from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Our antibody humanization patents, which are of significant value to us, are being challenged and a successful challenge or refusal to take a license could limit our future revenues. Two of our Queen et al. patents were issued to us by the European Patent Office, the ‘216 Patent and the ‘040 Patent. Eighteen notices of opposition to our ‘216 Patent and eight notices of opposition to our ‘040 Patent were filed by major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, among others, and we are currently in two separate opposition proceedings with respect to these two patents. An adverse decision in the pending European oppositions could have a material impact on our ability to collect royalties on European sales of our licensee’s products manufactured outside the United States, and could encourage challenges to our related Queen et al. patents in other jurisdictions, including the United States. In addition, disputes with existing licensees could result in litigation in which the validity and/or enforceability of our Queen et al. patents could be challenged. We cannot assure you that we will be successful if the validity and/or enforceability of our Queen et al. patents are challenged for any reason. In the event of a final, non-appealable judgment that some or all of our Queen et al. patents are invalid or unenforceable, there is a 8 substantial likelihood that one or more of our licensees will cease paying royalties under the terms of our existing license agreements. For example, in December 2008, MedImmune filed a lawsuit against us in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California seeking a declaratory judgment that the U.S. Queen et al. patents are invalid, that neither Synagis nor motavizumab infringes our Queen et al. patents, and that therefore neither product is subject to royalties pursuant to the MedImmune agreement. In February 2009, we filed a motion to dismiss MedImmune’s complaint, as well as a motion to transfer the case to the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. On February 13, 2009, MedImmune asserted in a letter that it may be entitled to pay a lower rate because of our settlement with Alexion. See “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” Although MedImmune has paid us royalties under the MedImmune agreement with respect to sales of Synagis on a quarterly basis since the fourth quarter of 1998 through the first quarter of 2009, we cannot assure you that MedImmune will continue to pay us royalties or at the current royalty rate. Also, in September 2008, UCB informed us that it has taken the position that its Cimzia product does not infringe our Queen et al. patents and therefore does not intend to pay to us royalties under the UCB agreement. We believe that UCB agreement covers the Cimzia product. We intend to vigorously defend and enforce our rights under our Queen et al. patents and to enforce our rights under both the MedImmune and UCB agreements. In the event that MedImmune prevails on the claims in its complaint, we expect that MedImmune will request the court to order a recoupment of payments made to PDL which represent obligations under its license to the Queen et al. patents that have accrued since the date of their claim. In addition, if MedImmune is successful in showing that it has made payments to PDL in excess of its license obligations, we expect that MedImmune will request the court to order recoupment of such excess payments. Our ability to maintain and increase our revenues from licensing our Queen et al. patents is dependent upon third parties maintaining their existing licensing arrangements, exercising rights under existing patent rights agreements and paying royalties under existing patent licenses with us. If we experience difficulty in enforcing our patent rights through licenses, or if our licensees, or prospective licensees, challenge our antibody humanization patents, or challenge whether particular existing or follow-on products are within the scope of our Queen et al. patents, and therefore not subject to royalty payments, our revenues and financial condition could be adversely affected, and we could be required to undertake additional actions, including litigation, to enforce our rights. Such efforts would increase our expenses and could be unsuccessful. We derive a significant portion of our royalty revenues from a limited number of licensees and our future success depends on continued market acceptance of their products. Our revenues will consist almost entirely of royalties, although we expect to receive minimal annual maintenance fees from licensees of our Queen et al. patents and, in future periods, we may receive milestone payments if the licensed products in development achieve certain development milestones and royalty payments if the licensed products receive marketing approval and generate sales before the expiration of our Queen et al. patents. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, Genentech accounted for 77%, 79%, and 80% of our revenues from continuing operations, respectively, and MedImmune accounted for 14%, 16% and 18% of our revenues from continuing operations, respectively. Our future success depends primarily upon the continued market acceptance of our licensee’s commercialized products and the performance by our licensees of their obligations under the applicable license agreements. In addition, our ability to generate royalty revenue depends upon the ability of our licensees to develop, introduce and deliver products that achieve and sustain market acceptance. We have no control over the sales efforts of our licensees, and our licensees might not be successful. Reductions in the sales volume or average selling price of licensed products could have a material adverse effect on our business. We must protect our patent and other intellectual property rights to succeed. Our success is dependent in significant part on our ability to protect our patent and other intellectual property rights. The scope, validity, enforceability and effective term of patents can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal and factual questions and proceedings. Patents, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. The issuance of a patent is presumptive, but not conclusive as to its 9 validity or its enforceability. U.S. patents and patent applications may also be subject to interference proceedings. U.S. patents may be subject to reexamination or reissue proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, and foreign patents may be subject to opposition or comparable proceedings in corresponding foreign patent offices. These proceedings could result in either loss of the patent or denial of the patent application or loss or reduction in the scope of one or more of the claims of the patent or patent application. In addition, such interference, reexamination, reissue and opposition proceedings may be costly. Furthermore, no consistent policy has emerged regarding the breadth of claims in biotechnology patents, so that even issued patents may later be modified or revoked by the relevant patent authorities or courts. These proceedings could be expensive, last several years and result in a significant reduction in the scope or invalidation of our patents. Any limitation in claim scope could reduce our ability to negotiate or collect royalties based on these patents. Moreover, the issuance of a patent in one country does not assure the issuance of a patent with similar claim scope in another country, and claim interpretation and infringement laws vary among countries, so we are unable to predict the extent of patent protection in any country. See “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” Our licensees may be unable to maintain regulatory approvals for currently licensed products or obtain regulatory approvals for new products. Safety issues could also result in the failure to maintain regulatory approvals or decrease revenues. Our licensees are subject to stringent regulation with respect to product safety and efficacy by various international, federal, state and local authorities. Of particular significance are the FDA’s requirements covering R&D, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling and promotion of drugs for human use. As a result of these requirements, the length of time, the level of expenditures and the laboratory and clinical information required for approval of a BLA or NDA are substantial and can require a number of years. In addition, even if our licensees’ products receive regulatory approval, they remain subject to ongoing FDA regulations, including, for example, obligations to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing, changes to the product label, new or revised regulatory requirements for manufacturing practices, written advisements to physicians and/or a product recall or withdrawal. Our licensees may not maintain necessary regulatory approvals for their existing licensed products or our licensees may not obtain necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all, for any of the licensed products our licensees are developing or manufacturing. The occurrence of adverse events reported by any licensee may result in the revocation of regulatory approvals or decreased sales of the applicable product due to a change in physician’s willingness to prescribe, or patient’s willingness to use, the applicable product. In either case, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected. For example, in February 2005, Biogen Idec and Elan announced that they had voluntarily suspended the marketing and commercial distribution of the Tysabri antibody, a drug approved to treat multiple sclerosis and which is licensed under our humanization patents, because Biogen Idec and Elan had received reports of cases of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (“PML”), a rare and frequently fatal, demyelinating disease of the central nervous system, in certain patients treated with Tysabri antibody. In July 2006, Biogen Idec and Elan reintroduced the Tysabri antibody, however, the Tysabri antibody’s label now includes prominent warnings regarding the Tysabri antibody’s risks and Biogen Idec and Elan implemented a risk management plan to inform physicians and patients of the benefits and risks of Tysabri antibody treatment and to minimize the risk of PML potentially associated with Tysabri antibody monotherapy. As of February 6, 2009, Biogen Idec and Elan have announced five cases of PML in patients treated with the Tysabri antibody since its re-launch. As a result, if physicians prescribe Tysabri less frequently due to the PML risk, or if Biogen Idec and Elan suspend the marketing and commercial distribution of the Tysabri antibody, either voluntarily or mandated by a regulatory agency such as the FDA, the amount of royalties we receive will be adversely affected. Another example is Raptiva, Genentech’s drug approved for the treatment of psoriasis. On February 20, 2009, the FDA issued a public health advisory concerning three confirmed and one possible report of PML in patients using Raptiva. Three of those patients have died. The FDA’s health advisory strongly recommended that health care professionals carefully monitor patients on Raptiva, as well as those who have discontinued the drug, for any signs or symptoms of neurologic disease, and that they periodically reassess the benefits of continued treatment. The public health advisory further stated that the FDA will take appropriate steps to ensure that the 10 risks of Raptiva do not outweigh its benefits. In October 2008, the FDA added serious warnings regarding Raptiva’s risks after the first patient contracted PML and died. Also on February 20, 2009, a committee of the European Medicines Agency recommended that marketing authorization for Raptiva in the EU be suspended because the benefits of Raptiva no longer outweigh its risks. Raptiva is marketed by Merck KGaA in the EU. On February 23, 2009, based on a recommendation by Health Canada, EMD Serono Canada Inc., the Canadian affiliate of Merck Serono who markets Raptiva in Canada, is suspending Raptiva from the Canadian marketplace due to safety concerns, including the occurrence of PML in patients taking the medication. As a result, if physicians prescribe Raptiva less frequently due to the PML risk, or if Genentech suspends the marketing and commercial distribution of Raptiva, either voluntarily or mandated by a regulatory agency, the amount of royalties we receive will be adversely affected. In addition, the current regulatory framework could change or additional regulations could arise at any stage during our licensees’ product development or marketing, which may affect our licensee’s ability to obtain or maintain approval of their licensed products. Delays in our licensees receiving regulatory approval for licensed products, or their failure to maintain existing regulatory approvals, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our licensees face competition. Our licensees face competition from other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. The introduction of new competitive products or follow-on biologics may result in lost market share for our licensees, reduced utilization of licensed products, lower prices and/or reduced licensed product sales, any of which could reduce our royalty revenue and have a material adverse effect on our results of operation. Our revenues and operating results will likely fluctuate in future periods. Our antibody humanization royalty revenues may be unpredictable and fluctuate since they depend upon, among other things, the seasonality and rate of growth of sales of licensed products and the mix of U.S.-based Sales and ex-U.S.-based Manufacturing and Sales in connection with our Master Patent License Agreement with Genentech. The Genentech agreement provides for a tiered royalty structure under which the royalty rate Genentech must pay on the U.S.-based Sales in a given calendar year decreases on incremental U.S.-based Sales above several net sales thresholds. As a result of the tiered royalty structure, Genentech’s average annual royalty rate for a given year will decline as Genentech’s U.S.-based Sales increase during that year. Because we receive royalties in arrears, the average royalty rate for the payments we receive from Genentech in the second calendar quarter—which would be for Genentech’s sales from the first calendar quarter—has been and is expected to continue to be higher than the average royalty rate for following quarters. The average royalty rate for payments we receive from Genentech is lowest in the first calendar quarter, which would be for Genentech’s sales from the fourth calendar quarter, when more of Genentech’s U.S.-based Sales bear royalties at lower royalty rates. With respect to the ex-U.S.-based Manufacturing and Sales, the royalty rate that we receive from Genentech is a fixed rate of 3% based on a percentage of the underlying ex-U.S.-based Manufacturing and Sales. The mix of U.S.-based Sales and ex-U.S.-based Manufacturing and Sales has fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate in future periods. Approximately 15% of our royalty revenues are from sales of Synagis, which is marketed by MedImmune. This product has significantly higher sales in the fall and winter, which to date have resulted in much higher royalties paid to us in our first and second quarters than in other quarters. The seasonality of Synagis sales is expected to continue to contribute to fluctuation in our revenues from quarter to quarter. In December 2008, MedImmune filed a lawsuit against us in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California seeking a declaratory judgment that the U.S. Queen et al. patents are invalid, that neither Synagis nor motavizumab, which is MedImmune’s newer version of the product, infringes our Queen et al. patents, and that therefore neither product is subject to royalties pursuant to the MedImmune agreement. In 11 February 2009, we filed a motion to dismiss MedImmune’s complaint, as well as a motion to transfer the case to the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. On February 13, 2009, MedImmune asserted in a letter that it may be entitled to pay a lower rate because of our settlement with Alexion. Although MedImmune has paid us royalties under the MedImmune agreement with respect to sales of Synagis product on a quarterly basis since the fourth quarter of 1998 through the first quarter of 2009, we cannot assure you that MedImmune will continue to pay us royalties on Synagis or on motavizumab, if it is even approved for commercialization. In the event that MedImmune prevails on the claims in its complaint, we expect that MedImmune will request the court to order a recoupment of payments made to PDL which represent obligations under its license to the Queen et al. patents that have accrued since the date of their claim. In addition, if MedImmune is successful in showing that it has made payments to PDL in excess of its license obligations, we expect that MedImmune will request the court to order recoupment of such excess payments. See “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” We intend to reserve from time to time a certain amount of cash in order to satisfy the obligations relating to our convertible notes, which could adversely affect the amount or timing of distributions to our stockholders. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $512.2 million in total long-term liabilities outstanding, comprised primarily of $250.0 million in principal that remains outstanding under our 2.00% Convertible Senior Notes due February 15, 2012 (the “2012 Notes”) and $250.0 million in principal that remains outstanding under our unsecured 2.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2023 (the “2023 Notes”). The 2012 Notes are our senior unsecured debt and are redeemable by us in whole or in part on or after February 19, 2010 at 100.57% of principal amount if redeemed between February 19, 2010 and February 14, 2011 and at 100.29% of principal amount if redeemed between February 15, 2011 and the maturity date. The 2023 Notes may be redeemed at our option, in whole or in part, beginning on August 16, 2008 at par value. Holders of the 2023 Notes may require us to repurchase all or a portion of their 2023 Notes at 100% of their principal amount, plus any unpaid interest, on August 16, 2010, August 16, 2013 and August 16, 2018, and upon the occurrence of a repurchase event. Similarly, holders of the 2012 Notes may require us to purchase all or any portion of their 2012 Notes at 100% of their principal amount, plus any unpaid interest, upon a fundamental change. Such repurchase event or fundamental change is generally defined to include a merger involving PDL, an acquisition of a majority of PDL’s outstanding common stock, and the change of a majority of PDL’s board without the approval of the board. In addition, to the extent we pursue and complete a monetization transaction, the structure of such transaction may qualify as a repurchase event or fundamental change under one or both series of convertible notes, which could trigger the put rights of the holders of such notes, in which case we would be required to use a portion of the net proceeds from such transaction to repurchase any notes put to us. We may also redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire one or both series of convertible notes in the open market in the future either in connection with a monetization transaction or not, any of which could adversely affect the amount or timing of any distributions to our stockholders. We intend to reserve from time to time a certain amount of cash in order to satisfy these repurchase or other obligations relating to the 2023 Notes and 2012 Notes, which could adversely affect the amount or timing of any distribution to our stockholders. We may also finance such repurchase through public or private equity or debt financings if we deem such financings are available on favorable terms. If any or all of the 2023 Notes or 2012 Notes are not converted into shares of our common stock before their respective maturity dates, we will have to pay the holders of such notes the full aggregate principal amount of the 2023 Notes or 2012 Notes, respectively, then outstanding. Any of the above payments could have a material adverse effect on our cash position. If we fail to satisfy these repurchase or other obligations, it may result in a default under the indenture, which could result in a default under certain of our other debt instruments, if any. We may be unable to monetize our antibody humanization patents and royalties assets through a potential sale or securitization transaction and distribute a portion of the proceeds to our stockholders. In 2008, we terminated efforts to monetize our antibody humanization patent and royalties assets primarily due to market conditions. While we will continue to explore various approaches to monetizing all or a portion of 12 our antibody humanization patents and royalties assets, there can be no assurance that conditions in the financial markets will allow us to monetize our antibody humanization patents and royalties assets. Even if conditions in the financial markets improve, there can be no assurance that we will be able to monetize all or a portion of our antibody humanization patents and royalties assets on acceptable terms or that buyers or investors will be interested in our antibody humanization patents and royalties assets. Our common stock may lose value due to several factors, including the expiration of our Queen et al. patents, the payment of dividends or distributions to our stockholders and failure to meet analyst expectations. Going forward, we expect that substantially all of our revenues will be in the form of royalties derived from our license agreements relating to our Queen et al. patents, which generally expire in 2013 and 2014. Shortly after the expiration of all of our Queen et al. patents, we will cease receiving patent-related royalties from our licensees and, as a result, our common stock will likely have little value. In addition to all of the risk factors listed herein, some other factors may also have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock, such as any payment of dividends or distributions to our stockholders and comments and expectations of results made by securities analysts. If any of these factors causes us to fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, or if adverse conditions prevail or are perceived to prevail with respect to our business, the price of the common stock would likely drop significantly. A significant drop in the price of a company’s common stock often leads to the filing of securities class action litigation against the company. This type of litigation against us could result in substantial costs and may lead to a diversion of management’s attention and resources. The conversion of any of the outstanding 2023 Notes or 2012 Notes into shares of our common stock would have a dilutive effect, which could cause our stock price to go down. The 2023 Notes and 2012 Notes are currently convertible at any time, at the option of the holder, into shares of our common stock at varying conversion rates. We have reserved shares of our authorized common stock for issuance upon conversion of the 2023 Notes and 2012 Notes. If any or all of the 2023 Notes or 2012 Notes are converted into shares of our common stock, our existing stockholders will experience immediate dilution and our common stock price may be subject to downward pressure. In connection with the Spin-Off, the conversion rates of the 2023 Notes and 2012 Notes have been adjusted upward. Previously, the conversion rate for the 2023 Notes was 72.586 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the 2023 Notes (or a conversion price of approximately $13.78 per share). The adjusted conversion rate for the 2023 Notes is 114.153 shares per $1,000 principal amount of 2023 Notes (or a conversion price of approximately $8.76 per share), effective December 8, 2008. Previously, the conversion rate for the 2012 Notes was 61.426 shares per $1,000 principal amount of 2012 Notes (or a conversion price of approximately $16.28 per share). The adjusted conversion rate for the 2012 Notes is 82.162 shares per $1,000 principal amount of 2012 Notes (or a conversion price of approximately $12.17 per share), effective January 5, 2009. Because the conversion rates of the 2023 Notes and 2012 Notes have been adjusted upward, our existing stockholders will experience more dilution if any or all of the 2023 Notes or 2012 Notes are converted into shares of our common stock after the adjusted conversion rates became effective. Decreases in third-party reimbursement rates may affect sales of licensed products. Sales of our licensees’ products will depend significantly on the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of licensed products and related treatments will be available to physicians and patients from U.S. and international government health administration authorities, private health insurers, and other organizations. Decreases in third-party reimbursement for our licensees’ products could reduce usage and sales of the products, and may have a material adverse effect on our business. 13 We must attract, retain and integrate key employees in order to succeed. It may be difficult to recruit, retain and integrate key employees. To be successful, we must attract, retain and integrate qualified personnel. Our business is managing our antibody humanization patents and royalties assets, which requires only a very small number of employees. It may be difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified personnel. If we are unsuccessful in attracting, retaining and integrating qualified personnel, our business could be impaired. Our agreements with Facet may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arm’s-length negotiations between unaffiliated third parties. The agreements associated with the Spin-Off, including the Separation and Distribution Agreement, Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement, Transition Services Agreement and Cross License Agreement, were negotiated in the context of the Spin-Off while Facet was still part of PDL and, accordingly, may not reflect more favorable terms that may have resulted from arm’s-length negotiations between unaffiliated third parties. We may not be able to collect on indemnification rights from Facet. Under the terms of the separation and distribution agreement with Facet, we and Facet agreed to indemnify the other from and after the Spin-Off with respect to certain indebtedness, liabilities and obligations that were retained by our respective companies. These indemnification obligations could be significant. The ability to satisfy these indemnities if called upon to do so will depend upon the future financial strength of each of our companies. We cannot assure you that, if Facet has to indemnify us for any substantial obligations, Facet will have the ability to satisfy those obligations. If Facet does not have the ability to satisfy those obligations, we may be required to satisfy those obligations instead. For example, if Facet does not have the ability to pay monthly rent and other expenses associated with the real property leases for Facet’s corporate headquarters in Redwood City, California consisting of approximately 450,000 square feet of office and lab space, we will be required to pay such amounts, which could have a material adverse effect on the amount or timing of any distribution to our stockholders. In connection with the Spin-Off, we entered into amendments to the leases for the facilities in Redwood City, California, which formerly served as our headquarters, under which Facet was added as a co-tenant under the leases, and a Co-Tenancy Agreement, under which Facet agreed to indemnify us for all matters related to the leases attributable to the period after the Spin-Off date. Should Facet default under its lease obligations, we would be held liable by the landlord as a co-tenant, and thus, we have in substance guaranteed the payments under the lease agreements for the Redwood City facilities. As of December 31, 2008, the total lease payments for the duration of the guarantee, which runs through December 2021, are approximately $140.3 million. We would also be responsible for lease related payments including utilities, property taxes, and common area maintenance which may be as much as the actual lease payments. See “Item 2—Properties.” We must evaluate the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting on a periodic basis and publicly disclose the results of these evaluations and related matters. Our management is required to periodically evaluate the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting and our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year. We are also required to disclose in our periodic reports with the SEC any changes in our internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation. Compliance with these rules has resulted in increased expenses and the devotion of significant management resources. Our evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures may reveal material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. In 2007 and 2008, we reported that we had material weaknesses in our internal controls with respect to our financial statement close process, which we believe have been remediated. If we 14 identify a material weakness, we would be required to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is ineffective and disclose this conclusion, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. For example, we disclosed we had material weaknesses in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the periods ended September 30, 2005, June 30, 2007, September 30, 2007, March 31, 2008 and June 30, 2008, and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. Our audit committee currently consists of only two independent directors. NASDAQ rules require us to have an audit committee consisting of at least three independent directors. As a result, the audit committee that reviewed our 2008 financial statements consisted of fewer members than required for NASDAQ-listed companies and is currently not in compliance with NASDAQ’s audit committee requirements. Failure to regain or maintain compliance with the NASDAQ requirements could result in the delisting of our common stock from NASDAQ, which would have a material adverse effect on the trading price and liquidity of our common stock. As a result of the Spin-Off, three of the seven directors serving on our board of directors resigned and became directors of Facet, with the result that as of December 18, 2008 we were left with only two independent directors serving on our audit committee. Our continued listing on NASDAQ requires us to comply with NASDAQ requirements, which require us to have an audit committee composed of at least three independent directors. As a result, the audit committee that reviewed our 2008 financial statements consisted of fewer members than required for NASDAQ-listed companies and is currently not in compliance with NASDAQ’s audit committee requirements. On February 17, 2009, we received a letter from NASDAQ notifying us that we no longer comply with NASDAQ’s audit committee requirements. However, the NASDAQ rules provide a cure period, which extends until June 16, 2009, unless our 2009 annual stockholder meeting is held after such date in which case the period extends until the date of such meeting. During this period, our common stock will continue to trade on NASDAQ subject to continued compliance with other listing requirements. We are actively seeking additional qualified candidates to serve on our board of directors, including the audit committee, and fully expect to regain compliance with the audit committee requirements within the cure period. Failure to regain or maintain compliance with the NASDAQ requirements could result in the delisting of our common stock from NASDAQ, which would have a material adverse effect on the trading price and liquidity of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 