Risk Factors.” COMPETITION Competitors and potential competitors relative to our marketed products in the United States and other countries include major pharmaceutical and chemical companies, specialized pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions. Our competitors for our marketed products include Baxter International Inc., Bedford Laboratories, Hospira, Inc., Genentech and GlaxoSmithKline. In addition, our product sales may face significant competition from both brand-name and generic manufacturers that could adversely affect the future sales of our products. In addition, competitors may succeed in developing products and technologies that are more effective, safer or less costly than our marketed products, or that would render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. Potential antibody-based competitors have developed and are developing mouse, chimeric, human and humanized antibodies or other compounds for treating autoimmune and inflammatory diseases, transplantation, asthma and cancers. In addition, a number of academic and commercial organizations are actively pursuing similar technologies, and several companies have developed or may develop technologies that may compete with our antibody technology platform. Competitors may succeed in more rapidly developing and marketing technologies and products that are more effective than our products or that would render our products or technology obsolete or noncompetitive. Our collaborative partners may also independently develop products that are competitive with products that we have licensed to them. This could reduce our revenues under our agreements with these partners. Any product that we or our collaborative partners succeed in developing and for which regulatory approval is obtained must then compete for market acceptance and market share. The relative speed with which we and our collaborative partners can develop products, complete clinical testing and approval processes, and supply commercial quantities of the products to the market compared to competitive companies will affect market success. In addition, the amount of marketing and sales resources, and the effectiveness of the marketing used with respect to a product will affect its success. Other competitive factors affecting our business generally include: • product efficacy and safety; 12 Table of Contents • timing and scope of regulatory approval; • product availability, marketing and sales capabilities; • reimbursement coverage; • the amount of clinical benefit of our products relative to their cost; • method of and frequency of administration of our products; • price of our products and of competitors’ products; • patent protection of our products; • the capabilities of our collaborative partners; and • the ability to hire qualified personnel. EMPLOYEES As of January 31, 2007, we had approximately 1,100 full-time employees. Of the total, approximately 200 employees were engaged in research and process development, 210 in clinical and regulatory, 170 in manufacturing, 140 in quality assurance and 380 in sales, marketing, general and administrative functions. Our scientific staff members have diversified experience and expertise in molecular and cell biology, biochemistry, immunology, protein chemistry, computational chemistry and computer modeling. Our success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain skilled and experienced employees. None of our employees is covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE We seek to comply with environmental statutes and the regulations of federal, state and local governmental agencies. We have put into place processes and procedures and maintain records in order to monitor environmental compliance. We may invest additional resources, if required, to comply with applicable regulations, and the cost of such compliance may increase significantly. AVAILABLE INFORMATION For a report of our fiscal year 2006 profit/loss, total assets, the amount we spent on research and development activities, and our revenues from external customers, including a geographic breakdown of such revenues, see the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. We file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that site is http:/ /www.sec.gov. We make available free of charge on or through our website at www.pdl.com our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and proxy statements, as well as amendments to these reports and statements, as soon as practicable after we have electronically filed such material with, or furnished it to, the SEC. You may also obtain copies of these filings free of charge by contacting our Corporate and Investor Relations Department by calling (510) 574-1400. 13 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information included and incorporated by reference in this Annual Report, including the risk factors listed below. Any of these risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Additional risks not currently known to us also may harm our business. Keep these risk factors in mind when you read forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report and the documents incorporated by reference herein. These statements relate to our expectations about future events and time periods. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential,” “continue” or “opportunity,” the negative of these words or words of similar import. Similarly, statements that describe our reserves and our future plans, strategies, intentions, expectations, objectives, goals or prospects are also forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and future events and circumstances could differ significantly from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. We have a history of operating losses and may not achieve sustained profitability. In general, our expenses have exceeded our revenues. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $570.1 million. We expect our expenses to increase primarily because of the extensive resource commitments required to achieve regulatory approval of potential products and commercial success for our portfolio of existing products and any other products we add to our portfolio through our development or in-licensing activities. For example, over the next several years, we will incur substantial additional expenses as we continue to invest in life cycle management of our existing products, develop and manufacture our potential products, invest in research and improve and expand our manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities. Since we or our partners or licensees may not successfully develop additional products, obtain required regulatory approvals, manufacture products at an acceptable cost or with appropriate quality, or successfully market such products with desired margins, we may not sustain positive cash flow from operations as we have projected. We may also incur additional acquisition-related or impairment charges related to our acquisitions of ESP Pharma and the rights to the Retavase product, which would adversely affect our operating results. The amount of net losses and the time required to reach sustained profitability from our proprietary products are highly uncertain. Our commitment of resources to the continued development of our products will require significant additional funds for development. Our operating expenses may also increase as: • our earlier stage potential products move into later stage clinical development, which is generally a more expensive stage of development; • additional potential products are selected as clinical candidates for further development; • we pursue clinical development of our potential products in new indications; • we invest in life cycle management initiatives for our products; • we invest in staffing and operations to meet our manufacturing requirements; • we expand our commercial infrastructure to market and sell our products; • we defend or prosecute our patents and patent applications; • we invest in research or acquire additional technologies, product candidates or businesses; and • we invest in our new facilities which will require significant capital expenditures, resulting in higher depreciation expenses. In the absence of substantial revenues from additional sales of existing or newly approved or acquired products, new agreements with third-party collaborators, significant royalties on sales of products licensed under our intellectual property rights or other uncertain sources of revenue, we will continue to incur operating losses and may require additional capital to fully execute our business strategy. 14 Table of Contents If we do not effectively manage the life cycle of our product portfolio, our results of operations will suffer. In the year ended December 31, 2006, our product sales accounted for 40% of our total revenues. We expect that revenues from our product portfolio will continue to represent a significant and possibly growing portion of our total revenue. The patents that we own or hold licenses to that cover our Cardene, IV Busulfex and Retavase products, our three marketed products, will expire between late 2009 and 2014. We are developing or may develop new dosage forms, formulations or manufacturing processes and we are identifying or may identify new indications for these products or otherwise develop new intellectual property with respect to these products. As a result of these efforts, we may secure additional or extended patent or marketing or other nonpatent statutory exclusivity rights. If obtained, these additional rights may extend the life cycle of these products and permit us to maintain or expand our position in the marketplace and sustain our revenue stream from the sale of these products. If we do not succeed in our efforts to effectively extend the life cycle of any of these products, we likely would be exposed to significantly more competition from generic versions of these products upon expiration of the patents that cover these products. Competition from generic forms of any of our products likely would cause significant declines in the amount of revenues and profit margins we recognize from the sale of that product. If Cardene product sales do not continue to grow, our results of operations will suffer. Sales of our Cardene IV product have accounted for a significant portion of our total revenues and growth in our sales since we acquired rights to it through our acquisition of ESP Pharma in March 2005. For example, our Cardene product sales, net, accounted for 22% of total revenues in 2005 and 26% of total revenues in 2006. However, our Cardene IV product faces a competitive marketplace from branded and generic intravenous anti-hypertensive products marketed in the United States and it may be harder to continue to penetrate this market and continue to grow Cardene IV product sales especially at the recent rate. While we expect to increase committed sales and marketing resources in an effort to ensure the continued growth of our Cardene IV product sales, there can be no assurance that we can continue a significant growth rate. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do. Those resources include greater experience in promoting and marketing hypertensive and other related drugs, superior product development capabilities and financial, scientific, manufacturing, marketing, managerial and human resources. In order for the Cardene IV product to continue its success, we will have to maintain and expand its position in the marketplace against these competitors’ drugs. Our Retavase product is sold in a market that has recently declined and if our continued sales and promotional efforts do not increase or at least maintain our market share, our results of operations will suffer. We expect our Retavase product to continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenues and product sales, net. However, Retavase product is sold into a thrombolytic market that has recently declined due to the more widespread use of stents and gpIIb/IIIa inhibitor products. Moreover, our Retavase product competes for use in the management of acute myocardial infarction with the TNKase™ and Activase® products from Genentech, a biotechnology company with significantly more resources and sales and marketing capabilities than we possess. While we continue to invest in promotional efforts for our Retavase product, there can be no assurance that we can increase the market share of our Retavase product, or that even if we are able to increase our market share, that the thrombolytic market will not decline significantly regardless of our efforts. The manufacturing of our Retavase product is a complex process that requires the services of a number of third parties, and our failure to timely or efficiently manufacture our Retavase product could cause our results of operations to suffer. The Retavase product is a biologic product currently manufactured through a multi-step process, including custom materials from Centocor, Diosynth RTP Inc. (Diosynth) and Roche. The manufacturing of this product for use as a therapeutic in compliance with regulatory requirements is complex, time-consuming and expensive and historically subject to relatively frequent batch failures because of the complexity of the manufacturing process. For example in 2006, one of our contract manufacturers experienced higher than expected batch failure rates. As a result, we and that contract manufacturer agreed to temporarily cease Retavase product manufacturing and run three test batches to extensively sample and analyze the process prior to making potential improvements. Although we believe we will be able to improve the manufacturing process to reduce batch failure rates, there can be no assurance that we will not experience subsequent manufacturing issues or batch failures that could result in the reduction or interruption of commercial sales and could impair our competitive position. In addition, we expect that our future cost of goods sold for our Retavase product will increase under our amended supply agreement with our contract manufacturer. This new supply agreement requires higher per gram fee payments as well as charges for additional testing during the manufacturing process. 15 Table of Contents Because we do not have the capability to manfucture our commercial products or our ularitide development product, we rely on third-party contract manufacturers to manufacture these products. If we are unable to continue those manufacturing arrangements successfully or at a reasonable cost, our operations and future results could suffer. We do not have the capability to manufacture any of our marketed products or our ularitide development product. We have entered into manufacturing agreements with various third parties to manufacture and supply these products under our label. Each of our products is manufactured by a single manufacturer. If there are supply problems with any third-party manufacturer, there may not be sufficient supplies of the product which that manufacturer produces for us to meet commercial or clinical trial demand, in which case our operations and results could suffer. For example, earlier in 2006, we encountered manufacturing challenges for our Retavase product and temporarily ceased manufacturing of the Retavase product to run test batches to analyze and improve the manufacturing process. In connection with these efforts, we also negotiated an amended supply agreement with our contract manufacturer pursuant to which our expected manufacturing costs will increase. These cost increases prompted us to conduct an asset impairment analysis and, in the fourth quarter of 2006, we recognized a $72.1 million asset impairment charge to our Retavase product rights intangible assets. Our products must be manufactured in facilities approved by the FDA and the process for qualifying and obtaining approval for a manufacturing facility is a time-consuming process. If our relationship with any of our manufacturers were to terminate unexpectedly or on short notice, our ability to meet commercial or clinical trial demand for the product manufactured by that single manufacturer could be adversely affected while we qualify a new manufacturer for that product and our operations and future results could suffer. We also engage third parties for product filling, labeling and packaging. If any filling, labeling or packaging errors occur and are not discovered until after the products are sold, we would need to recall those products, which could be very costly and could damage our credibility and adversely affect our future sales. In addition, our reliance on third-party manufacturers and suppliers entails risks, including reliance on third parties for regulatory compliance and adhering to the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) requirements, the possible breach by these third parties of the manufacturing agreements, and the possibility of termination or non-renewal of these manufacturing agreements by the third parties at a time that is costly or inconvenient to us. Failure of our third-party manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations, including FDA pre-or post-approval inspections and cGMP requirements, could result in the imposition of sanctions on us. These sanctions could include fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delay, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, product seizures or recalls, operational restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. Our product revenues are substantially dependent on a limited number of wholesalers and distribution partners, and such product revenues may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on the buying and return patterns of these wholesalers and distribution partners and our ability to estimate reserves for potential product returns. We sell our products primarily to a limited number of national medical and pharmaceutical distributors and wholesalers with distribution centers located throughout the United States. During the year ended December 31, 2006, revenues from the sales of our products to our three largest U.S. wholesalers totaled approximately 90% of our gross product sales. Our reliance on a small number of wholesalers and distribution partners could cause revenues to fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on the buying, return and payment patterns of these wholesalers and distribution partners. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, these three U.S. wholesalers represented approximately 81% of our outstanding accounts receivable from product sales. We have received a significant number of returns of Cardene IV, Retavase and IV Busulfex products and off-patent products that were sold prior to our acquisitions of rights to these products in March 2005. The level of returns of these products sold prior to March 2005 exceeded our expectations at the time we acquired the rights to these products. We believe these unexpected returns resulted from overstocking of inventory by wholesalers in anticipation of future price increases that did not occur, and therefore affected the rate of returns. We continue to monitor current levels of inventory at the wholesalers consistent with our forecasts of end user demand and we continue to refine our trade practices and more effectively enforce trade policies including declining or holding orders to align selling patterns with our estimate of the end user demand for our products. We believe these efforts have led to inventory levels at wholesalers below prior levels, and this should reduce the level of returns. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that our wholesalers and distribution partners will maintain inventory levels consistent with our forecast of end user demand. Due to enhanced inventory management and enforcement of our product return policy, we do not believe that we will experience the same level of returns for products we sold subsequent to March 2005, the date we acquired ESP Pharma and rights to the Retavase product. In accordance with our product returns reserve policy, we review the estimated rate for product sales returns on a quarterly basis. We review historical product returns, channel inventory levels and activities and other factors pursuant to this review. This review may result in an estimate that is higher or lower than our prior estimates for product sales returns to reflect the projected future level of returns. For example, in the second quarter of fiscal 2006 we increased our 16 Table of Contents estimate of the rate of product returns and the effect of this change was to reduce product sales, net, in that quarter by approximately $5.6 million. The effect of any change in estimate would affect product sales, net, during the quarter in which we revise our estimate. If returns exceed our expectations as they have in the past, revenues would be adversely affected. In addition, if any of these wholesalers fails to pay on a timely basis or at all, our financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Increased leverage as a result of our sale of the 2005 Notes may harm our financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2006, we had approximately $674.4 million in total liabilities outstanding, including $250.0 million in principal that remains outstanding under our 2.00% Convertible Senior Notes due February 15, 2012 (the 2005 Notes) and $250.0 million in principal remains outstanding under our unsecured 2.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2023 (the 2003 Notes). The 2003 and 2005 Notes do not restrict our future incurrence of indebtedness and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our level of indebtedness will significantly affect our future operations because: • we will have additional cash requirements in order to support the payment of interest on our outstanding indebtedness; • increases in our outstanding indebtedness and leverage will increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; and • the levels of our outstanding debt could limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate and other purposes . Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which we cannot control. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt may require us to, among other things: • seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; • refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness, including the 2005 Notes or the 2003 Notes; • sell selected assets; • reduce or delay planned capital expenditures; or • reduce or delay planned operating expenditures, such as clinical trials. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms. Difficulties in managing our sales, marketing and distribution groups could adversely affect our product revenues and financial results. Prior to our acquisitions of ESP Pharma and rights to the Retavase product in March 2005, we did not sell, market or distribute any products. Although we have integrated our pre-merger operations with the operations of ESP Pharma and we have retained and increased the size of the hospital-focused sales and sales-related infrastructure, we have encountered and may encounter further challenges in the continued and efficient management of such capabilities which could adversely affect our financial results. We sell our products to wholesale distributors who in turn sell our products to hospitals and clinics, our end customers. We cannot assure you that our end customers will continue their current patterns of purchasing and using our products. Any delay or deferral in purchasing decisions or any decision to return our products by our wholesalers or end customers due to our marketing and sales efforts, competition or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our product revenues and financial results. We continue to refine our trade practices and more effectively enforce trade policies with our wholesalers to be more consistent with what we believe to be industry standards and the natural demand for our products by end customers. Our recent efforts in this regard have resulted in our declining or holding orders to more closely align selling patterns with our estimate of the end user demand for our products. We expect to continue to make refining adjustments to our trade practices to more effectively manage our channel inventory levels to meet end customer demand. 17 Table of Contents We are a large, geographically diverse organization, and if our management does not manage our organization efficiently, our operating results will suffer. We face challenges inherent in efficiently managing a large number of employees over large geographic distances and across multiple functional disciplines, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs. The inability to manage successfully our large, geographically diverse organization and the inability to retain or replace key employees could have a material adverse effect on the operating results of our company and, as a result, on the market price of our common stock. If our collaborations are not successful, we may not effectively develop and market some of our products. We have agreements with pharmaceutical and other companies to develop, manufacture and market certain of our potential products. In some cases, we rely on our partners to manufacture such products and essential components for those products, design and conduct clinical trials, compile and analyze the data received from these trials, obtain regulatory approvals and, if approved, market these licensed products. As a result, we may have limited or no control over the manufacturing, development and marketing of these potential products and little or no opportunity to review the clinical data prior to or following public announcement. In addition, the design of the clinical studies may not be sufficient or appropriate for regulatory review and approval and we may have to conduct further studies in order to facilitate approval. Our collaboration arrangement with Biogen Idec is particularly important to us. Effective in August 2005, we entered into a long-term agreement with Biogen Idec under which Biogen Idec became our partner on three of our antibody clinical programs, daclizumab in certain indications including MS and volociximab (M200) and the HuZAF antibody in all indications. We and Biogen Idec were conducting a proof of concept Phase 2 trial of the HuZAF antibody in severe rheumatoid arthritis, however, based on our preliminary evaluation of data from this open label study, we and Biogen Idec jointly agreed to discontinue development of the HuZAF antibody in severe rheumatoid arthritis. We and Biogen Idec do not currently have any plans for development of the HuZAF antibody in other indications. This collaboration agreement provides significant combined resources for the development, manufacture and potential commercialization of products. PDL and Biogen Idec each assume certain responsibilities and share expenses. Because of the broad scope of the collaborations, we are particularly dependent upon the performance by Biogen Idec of their obligations under the agreement. The failure of Biogen Idec to perform their obligations, our failure to perform our obligations, our failure to effectively manage the relationship, or a material contractual dispute between us and Biogen Idec would have a material adverse effect on our prospects or financial results. Moreover, our financial results depend in substantial part upon our efforts and related expenses for these programs. Our revenues and expenses recognized under the collaboration will vary depending on the work performed by us and Biogen Idec in any particular reporting period. The arrangement with Roche pursuant to which were co-developing daclizumab for asthma and transplant maintenance was also particularly important to us. In 2006, however, Roche decided to first discontinue its involvement in the co-development of daclizumab in treating asthma and then later to discontinue its co-development of daclizumab in transplant maintenance and terminate the Roche Co-Development Agreement effective in May 2007. We rely on other collaborators, such as clinical research organizations, medical institutions and clinical investigators, including physician sponsors, to conduct nearly all of our clinical trials, including recruiting and enrolling patients in the trials. If these parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be delayed or may not obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates. If any of the third parties upon whom we rely to conduct our clinical trials do not comply with applicable laws, successfully carry out their obligations or meet expected deadlines, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated. If the quality or accuracy of the clinical data obtained by third party contractors is compromised due to their failure to adhere to applicable laws, our clinical protocols or for other reasons, we may not obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize any of our product candidates. If our relationships with any of these organizations or individuals terminates, we believe that we would be able to enter into arrangements with alternative third parties. However, replacing any of these third parties could delay our clinical trials and could jeopardize our ability to obtain regulatory approvals and commercialize our product candidates on a timely basis, if at all. 18 Table of Contents Our partners can terminate our collaborative agreements under certain conditions, and in some cases on short notice. A partner may terminate its agreement with us or separately pursue alternative products, therapeutic approaches or technologies as a means of developing treatments for the diseases targeted by us, or our collaborative effort. For example, in August 2006, following a portfolio review at Roche, Roche elected to discontinue its involvement in the development of daclizumab in treating asthma and other respiratory diseases in accordance with the terms of our collaboration agreement with Roche, and in November 2006, Roche elected to terminate the entire collaboration agreement effective May 2007. Even if a partner continues to contribute to the arrangement, it may nevertheless decide not to actively pursue the development or commercialization of any resulting products. In these circumstances, our ability to pursue potential products could be severely limited. Continued funding and participation by partners will depend on the continued timely achievement of our research and development objectives, the retention of key personnel performing work under those agreements and on each partner’s own financial, competitive, marketing and strategic capabilities and priorities. These considerations include: • the commitment of each partner’s management to the continued development of the licensed products or technology; • the relationships among the individuals responsible for the implementation and maintenance of the development efforts; and • the relative advantages of alternative products or technology being marketed or developed by each partner or by others, including their relative patent and proprietary technology positions, and their ability to manufacture potential products successfully. Our ability to enter into new relationships and the willingness of our existing partners to continue development of our potential products depends upon, among other things, our patent position with respect to such products. If we are unable to successfully maintain our patents we may be unable to collect royalties on existing licensed products or enter into additional agreements. If we are unable to favorably assess the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, or if our independent auditors are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on our assessment, our stock price could be adversely affected. Pursuant to rules adopted under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Section 404), our management is required to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation. We reviewed, documented and tested our internal control over financial reporting successfully in 2004, 2005 and 2006. The Section 404 compliance process has resulted, and will continue to result, in increased expenses and the devotion of significant management resources and we expect that the expenses for this process will continue to increase modestly. For example, during our review of the results of operation for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, we identified a material weakness in the operations of our internal control over financial reporting as defined in Public Company Accounting Oversight Board Standard No. 2 related to the failure of an existing internal control to operate effectively. Specifically, with respect to the third quarter of 2005, we did not complete an impairment review with regard to the net carrying value of certain of the intangible assets and inventory acquired in the business combination with ESP Pharma. During the third quarter of 2005, we decided to sell four generic products acquired from ESP Pharma and in September of that quarter, there was an indication of impairment as the proceeds likely to be received in such as sale would be materially less than the net carrying value of the related intangible assets and inventory as of September 30, 2005. We remediated this material weakness through the addition of staff and consulting resources during the fourth quarter of 2005 and completed a more timely review during our financial statement close process as well to ensure compliance with our existing internal control over financial reporting. Our revenues, expenses and operating results will likely fluctuate in future periods. Our revenues have varied in the past and will likely continue to fluctuate considerably from quarter to quarter and from year to year. As a result, our revenues in any period may not be predictive of revenues in any subsequent period. In particular, our product sales and royalty revenues may be unpredictable and may fluctuate since they depend upon: • the seasonality and rate of growth of sales of existing and licensed products; • the existence of competing products; • our ability to continue to market and sell our products; 19 Table of Contents • the response of wholesalers to announced or anticipated price changes for our products; • uncertainty resulting from the purchase practices of wholesalers and inventory levels at wholesalers; • product returns, reimbursements and rebates which could differ from our estimates and accruals; • the continued safety of approved products; • the marketing and promotional efforts of our licensees from whom we receive royalty payments; • the occurrence of key events under collaborative arrangements, including milestones, development decisions or program or collaboration terminations; • our ability to successfully defend and enforce our patents; • the effect of taxes and estimates or adjustments to estimates for federal and state taxes that may impact our reported net income in any particular quarter; • the effect of new accounting pronouncements or interpretations of existing guidance, in particular as they may affect the accounting treatment of reimbursement of research and development expenses under collaborative arrangements; and • the structure of out-licensing, collaboration and royalty arrangements. We receive a significant portion of our royalty revenues from sales of Synagis, which is marketed by MedImmune. This product has significantly higher sales in the fall and winter, which to date have resulted in much higher royalties paid to us in our first and second quarters than in other quarters. The seasonality of Synagis sales is expected to continue to contribute to fluctuation in our revenues from quarter to quarter. License, collaboration and other revenues may also be unpredictable and may fluctuate due to the timing of payments of non-recurring licensing and signing fees, payments for manufacturing and clinical development services, and payments for the achievement of milestones under new and existing agreements with third-party business partners. In addition, based on current accounting principles and guidance, we currently recognize reimbursement of expenses under our existing collaborative arrangements as revenues at the time the work is performed under the collaboration. In the event that there is a change in the accounting principles or guidance that would result in a “netting” of revenues and expenses during the period in which the work is performed, our revenues would be reduced and netted with related expenses, although our net loss would not change. Nevertheless, a change to this effect would likely reduce our reported rate of growth in licensed and other and total revenues from historical periods due to this change in accounting. The recognition of license, collaboration and other revenues that we otherwise would defer and recognize over a period of time under applicable accounting principles may be accelerated in certain circumstances. For example, if a licensee of ours terminates a development program for which we received an upfront non-refundable fee that required our ongoing performance, the recognition of the revenues would be accelerated and recognized in the period in which the termination occurred. In such a case, it may cause our revenues during that period to be higher than it otherwise would have been had the circumstances not occurred. For example, during the third quarter of 2006 we recognized $18.8 million of deferred revenue, or 17% of the total revenues for that quarter, related to Roche’s election in August 2006 to discontinue its co-development of daclizumab in treating asthma and other respiratory diseases. In addition, revenues historically recognized under our prior agreements may not be an indicator of revenues from any future collaborations. Our expenses may be unpredictable and may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to the timing and the unpredictable nature of clinical trial and related expenses, including payments owed by us and to us under collaborative agreements for reimbursement of expenses and which are recorded under our policy during the quarter in which such expenses are reported to us or to our partners and agreed to by us or our partners. Moreover, the underlying terms of in-licensing and royalty arrangements, especially those with tiered payment structures, will impact the timing of costs and expenses recognized during any particular quarter. In addition, the recognition of clinical trial and other expenses that we otherwise would recognize over a period of time under applicable accounting principles may be accelerated in certain circumstances. In such a case, it may cause our expenses during that period to be higher than they otherwise would have been had the circumstances not occurred. For example, if we terminate a clinical trial for which we paid non-refundable upfront fees to a clinical research organization and in which we did not accrue all of the patient costs, the recognition of the expense associated with those fees that we were recognizing as we accrued patient costs would be accelerated and recognized in the period in which the termination occurred. 20 Table of Contents In addition, our expenses or other operating results may fluctuate due to the accounting treatment of securities we own or may purchase or securities we have issued or may issue. For example, we began recognizing expense for stock-based awards exchanged for employee services in the first quarter of 2006 under SFAS 123(R) and, as a result, our operating expenses are significantly higher than prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R). Our humanization patents are being opposed and a successful challenge or refusal to take a license could limit our future revenues. Our Queen patents are of significant value to us. In 2006, we received royalty revenues under license agreements covering our Queen patents which represented approximately 44% of our total revenues in 2006. We expect that in 2007, we will continue to experience aggregate royalty revenue growth based on the assumed continued growth in aggregate product sales underlying our royalty revenues and that these royalty revenues will continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenues. Two of our Queen patents were issued to us by the European Patent Office. Eighteen notices of opposition to our first European patent and eight notices of opposition to our second European patent were filed by major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, among others, and we are currently in two separate opposition proceedings with respect to these two patents. Although five opponents, including Genentech, have withdrawn from the opposition proceedings with respect to the opposition to our first European patent, 13 opponents to this patent remain. A description of these two proceedings is included under the heading “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report. If our patents are successfully opposed in either of these two proceedings or third parties decline to take licenses to our Queen patents, our future revenues would be adversely affected. For example, if the opponents in the proceeding regarding our first European patent are successful, our ability to collect royalties on European sales of antibodies humanized by others would depend on: (i) the scope and validity of our second European patent; and (ii) whether the antibodies are manufactured in a country outside of Europe where they are covered by one or more of our patents and, if so, on the terms of our license agreements. In addition, until the opposition proceedings are resolved, we may be limited in our ability to collect royalties or to negotiate future license agreements based on our Queen patents. An adverse decision by the Opposition Division could encourage challenges to our related Queen patents in other jurisdictions, including the United States. Such a decision may lead some of our licensees to stop making royalty payments or lead potential licensees not to take a license, either of which might result in us initiating formal legal proceedings to enforce our rights under our Queen patents. In such a situation, a likely defensive strategy to our action would be to challenge our patents in that jurisdiction. During the opposition process with respect to our first European patent, if we were to commence an infringement action in Europe to enforce that patent, such an action would likely be stayed until the opposition is decided by the European Patent Office. As a result, we may not be able to successfully enforce our rights under our European or related U.S. patents. Although we intend to vigorously defend the European patents in these two proceedings, we may not prevail in either of these opposition proceedings or any litigation contesting the validity of these patents. For example, our Japanese humanization patent, which was issued in September 1998, was opposed and eventually revoked by the Japanese Patent Office in March 2001. Although we appealed the Japanese Patent Office’s revocation of this patent, the Tokyo High Court upheld the revocation of the patent and, in December 2004, the Japanese Supreme Court denied our petition for review of the Tokyo High Court’s decision. The decision by the Japanese Supreme Court concluded the proceedings in the matter and the Japanese Patent Office’s decision to revoke our patent is final and nonappealable. If the outcome of either of the European opposition proceedings or any litigation involving our antibody humanization patents were to be unfavorable, our ability to collect royalties on existing licensed products and to license our patents relating to humanized antibodies may be materially harmed. In addition, these proceedings or any other litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against infringement claims by others could result in substantial costs and diversion of management’s time and attention, which could harm our business and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents Our ability to maintain and increase our revenues from licensing our Queen patents is dependent upon third parties entering into new patent licensing arrangements, exercising rights under existing patent rights agreements, paying royalties under existing patent licenses with us and not terminating those existing licenses with us. To date, we have succeeded in obtaining and maintaining such licensing arrangements, and in receiving royalties on product sales, from parties whose products may be covered by our patents. However, there can be no assurance that we will continue to succeed in our licensing efforts in the future. In the past, we have experienced challenges in our licensing efforts, such as the disagreement we had with Genentech in 2003 over whether its Xolair antibody was covered under our humanization patents. Although we subsequently reached an amicable settlement with Genentech that is intended to resolve such disagreements, Genentech or other companies may, in the future terminate their licensing agreements with us, or seek to challenge our U.S. patents through litigation or patent office proceedings, such as re-examinations or interferences. If we experience difficulty in enforcing our patent rights through licenses, or if our licensees, or prospective licensees, challenge our antibody humanization patents, our revenues and financial condition could be adversely affected, and we could be required to undertake additional actions, including litigation, to enforce our rights. Such efforts would increase our expenses and could be unsuccessful. If we are unable to protect our patents and proprietary technology, we may not be able to compete successfully. Our pending patent applications may not result in the issuance of valid patents or our issued patents may not provide competitive advantages. Also, our patent protection may not prevent others from developing competitive products using related or other technology. A number of companies, universities and research institutions have filed patent applications or received patents in the areas of antibodies and other fields relating to our programs. Some of these applications or patents may be competitive with our applications or contain material that could prevent the issuance of our patents or result in a significant reduction in the scope of our issued patents. The scope, enforceability and effective term of patents can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal and factual questions and proceedings. No consistent policy has emerged regarding the breadth of claims in biotechnology patents, so that even issued patents may later be modified or revoked by the relevant patent authorities or courts. These proceedings could be expensive, last several years and either prevent issuance of additional patents to us relating to humanization of antibodies or result in a significant reduction in the scope or invalidation of our patents. Any limitation in claim scope could reduce our ability to negotiate or collect royalties or to negotiate future collaborative research and development agreements based on these patents. Moreover, the issuance of a patent in one country does not assure the issuance of a patent with similar claim scope in another country, and claim interpretation and infringement laws vary among countries, so we are unable to predict the extent of patent protection in any country. In addition to seeking the protection of patents and licenses, we also rely upon trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, suppliers and licensees. If these agreements are not honored, we might not have adequate remedies for any breach. Additionally, our trade secrets might otherwise become known or patented by our competitors. We may require additional patent licenses in order to manufacture or sell our potential products. Other companies, universities and research institutions may obtain patents that could limit our ability to use, import, manufacture, market or sell our products or impair our competitive position. As a result, we might be required to obtain licenses from others before we could continue using, importing, manufacturing, marketing, or selling our products. We may not be able to obtain required licenses on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we do not obtain required licenses, we may encounter significant delays in product development while we redesign potentially infringing products or methods or we may not be able to market our products at all. Celltech Therapeutics Limited (Celltech), which has been acquired by UCB Group, for example, has been granted a European patent covering humanized antibodies, which we have opposed. At an oral hearing in September 2000, the Opposition Division of the European Patent Office decided to revoke this patent. Celltech appealed that decision, but the Technical Board of Appeal rejected the appeal. As a result, the decision revoking the patent is final; no further appeals are available. However, Celltech has a second issued divisional patent in Europe, which has claims that may be broader in scope than its first European patent, and which we have opposed. At an oral hearing in January 2005, the Opposition Division decided to revoke this patent. Celltech has filed an appeal. We cannot predict whether Celltech’s appeal will be successful, or whether it will be able to obtain the grant of a patent from the pending divisional application with claims broad enough to generally cover humanized antibodies. Celltech has also been issued a corresponding U.S. patent that contains claims that may be considered broader in scope than its first European patent. In addition, Celltech was recently issued a second U.S. patent with claims that may be considered broader than its first U.S. patent. We have entered into an agreement with Celltech providing each company with the right to obtain nonexclusive 22 Table of Contents licenses for up to three antibody targets under the other company’s humanization patents, which rights may be exercised under the agreement through December 2014. Notwithstanding this agreement, if our humanized antibodies were covered by Celltech’s European or U.S. patents and if we need more than the three licenses under those patents currently available to us under the agreement, we would be required to negotiate additional licenses under those patents or to significantly alter our processes or products. We might not be able to successfully alter our processes or products to avoid conflict with these patents or to obtain the required additional licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, if the Celltech U.S. patent or any related patent applications conflict with our U.S. patents or patent applications, we may become involved in proceedings to determine which company was the first to invent the products or processes contained in the conflicting patents. These proceedings could be expensive, last several years and either prevent issuance of additional patents to us relating to humanization of antibodies or result in a significant reduction in the scope or invalidation of our patents. Any limitation would reduce our ability to negotiate or collect royalties or to negotiate future collaborative research and development agreements based on these patents. We do not have a license to an issued U.S. patent assigned to Stanford University and Columbia University, which may cover a process we use to produce our potential products. We have been advised that an exclusive license has been previously granted to a third party, Centocor, under this patent. If our processes were found to be covered by either of these patents, we might be required to obtain licenses or to significantly alter our processes or products. We might not be able to successfully alter our processes or products to avoid conflicts with these patents or to obtain licenses on acceptable terms. If our research efforts are not successful, we may not be able to effectively develop new products. We have not commercialized any antibody products. We are engaged in research activities intended to identify antibody product candidates that we may progress into clinical development. These research activities include efforts to discover and validate new targets for antibodies in our areas of therapeutic focus. We obtain new targets through our own drug discovery efforts and through in-licensing targets from institutions or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies. Our success in identifying new antibody product candidates depends upon our ability to discover and validate new targets, either through our own research efforts, or through in-licensing or collaborative arrangements. In order to increase the possibilities of identifying antibodies with a reasonable chance for success in clinical studies, part of our business strategy is to identify a higher number of potential targets than we expect to be able to progress through clinical development. Our antibody product candidates are in various stages of development and many are in an early development stage. If we are unsuccessful in our research efforts to identify and obtain rights to new targets and generate antibody product candidates that lead to the required regulatory approvals and the successful commercialization of products, our ability to develop new products could be harmed. If we are unable to develop new products, our ability to grow may depend on our success in acquiring or licensing new products and integrating them successfully. If we are unable to develop new products, we may depend on acquisitions of rights to products from others as our primary source of new products. Risks in acquiring new products include the following: • we may not be able to locate new products that we find attractive and complementary to our business; • the price to acquire or obtain a license for these products may be too costly to justify the acquisition; or • we may be unable to successfully integrate the research, development and commercialization capabilities necessary to bring these products to market. Clinical development is inherently uncertain and expensive, and costs may fluctuate unexpectedly. Our development of current and future product candidates, either alone or in conjunction with collaborators, is subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of new drugs. Our future success depends in large part upon the results of clinical trials designed to assess the safety and efficacy of our potential products. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any products, we must demonstrate through preclinical testing and clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective for their intended use in humans. We have incurred and will continue to incur substantial expense for, and we have devoted and expect to continue to devote a significant amount of time to, preclinical testing and clinical trials. Despite the time and expense incurred, there can be no assurance that our clinical trials will adequately demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our product candidates. 23 Table of Contents Historically, the results from preclinical testing and early clinical trials have often not been predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. A number of potentially new drugs have shown promising results in clinical trials, but subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety or efficacy data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. For example, in August 2006, we announced that the Phase 3 study of terlipressin, a drug to which we had commercialization rights at the time, did not meet its primary endpoint of reversing type 1 hepatorenal syndrome compared to placebo. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, we may encounter regulatory delays or failures of our clinical trials as a result of many factors, all of which may increase the costs and expense associated with the trial, including: • changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development; • delays in obtaining sufficient supply of materials to enroll and complete clinical studies according to planned timelines; • delays in obtaining regulatory approvals to commence a study; • delays in identifying and reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical trial sites; • delays in the enrollment of patients; • lack of efficacy during clinical trials; or • unforeseen safety issues. Completion of clinical trials may take several years or more. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and submit an application for marketing and manufacturing approvals varies significantly according to the type, complexity, proprietary and intended use of the product candidate and is difficult to predict. Further, we, the FDA, European Medicines Agency (EMEA), investigational review boards or data safety monitoring boards may decide to temporarily suspend or permanently terminate ongoing trials. Failure to comply with extensive FDA regulations may result in unanticipated delay, suspension or cancellation of a trial or the FDA’s refusal to accept test results. As a result of these factors, we cannot predict the actual expenses that we will incur with respect to preclinical or clinical trials for any of our potential products, and we expect that our expense levels will fluctuate unexpectedly in the future. Despite the time and expense incurred, we cannot guarantee that we will successfully develop commercially viable products that will achieve FDA approval or market acceptance, and failure to do so would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive government regulation, which requires us to invest significant resources in development, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals, which are required for us to conduct clinical testing and commercialize our products. Our product candidates under development are subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation. The FDA regulates, among other things, the development, testing, research, manufacture, safety, efficacy, record-keeping, labeling, storage, approval, quality control, adverse event reporting, advertising, promotions, sale and distribution of biopharmaceutical products. If we market our products abroad, they will also be subject to extensive regulation by foreign governments. The regulatory review and approval process, which includes preclinical studies and clinical trials of each product candidate, is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. To obtain regulatory approval for the commercial sale of any of our potential products or to promote these products for expanded indications, we must demonstrate through preclinical testing and clinical trials that each product is safe and effective for use in indications for which approval is requested. We have had, and may in the future have, clinical setbacks that prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval for our potential products. Early clinical trials such as Phase 1 and 2 trials generally are designed to gather information to determine whether further trials are appropriate and, if so, how such trials should be designed. As a result, data gathered in these trials may indicate that the endpoints selected for these trials are not the most relevant for purposes of assessing the product or the design of future trials. Moreover, success or failure in meeting such early clinical trial endpoints may not be dispositive of whether further trials are appropriate and, if so, how such trials should be designed. We may decide, or the FDA may require us, to make changes in our plans and protocols. Such changes may relate, for example, to changes in the standard of care for a particular disease indication, comparability of efficacy and toxicity of potential drug product where a change in the manufacturing process or manufacturing site is proposed, or competitive developments foreclosing the availability of expedited approval procedures. We may be required to support proposed changes with additional preclinical or clinical testing, which could delay the expected time line for concluding clinical trials. 24 Table of Contents Larger or later stage clinical trials may not produce the same results as earlier trials. Many companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including our company, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, including advanced clinical trials, even after promising results had been obtained in earlier trials. Even when a drug candidate shows evidence of efficacy in a clinical trial, it may be impossible to further develop or receive regulatory approval for the drug if it causes an unacceptable incidence or severity of side effects, or further development may be slowed down by the need to find dosing regimens that do not cause such side effects. In addition, we may not be able to successfully commence and complete all of our planned clinical trials without significant additional resources and expertise because we have a relatively large number of potential products in clinical development. The approval process takes many years, requires the expenditure of substantial resources, and may involve post-marketing surveillance and requirements for post-marketing studies. The approval of a product candidate may depend on the acceptability to the FDA of data from our clinical trials. Regulatory requirements are subject to frequent change. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals may: • adversely affect the successful commercialization of any drugs that we develop; • impose costly procedures on us; • diminish any competitive advantages that we may attain; and • adversely affect our receipt of revenues or royalties. Additionally, regulatory review of our clinical trial protocols may cause us in some cases to delay or abandon our planned clinical trials. Our potential inability to commence or continue clinical trials, to complete the clinical trials on a timely basis or to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our potential products, further adds to the uncertainty of regulatory approval for our potential products. The “fast track” designation for development of any of our products may not lead to a faster development or regulatory review or approval process and it does not increase the likelihood the product will receive regulatory approval. If a drug is intended for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening condition and the drug demonstrates the potential to address unmet medical needs for this condition, the drug sponsor may apply for FDA “fast track” designation for a particular indication. Marketing applications filed by sponsors of products in fast track development may qualify for priority review under the policies and procedures offered by the FDA, but the fast track designation does not assure any such qualification. Although we have obtained a fast track designation from the FDA for the Nuvion antibody for the treatment of intravenous steroid-refractory ulcerative colitis, receipt of fast track designation may not result in a faster development process, review or approval compared to drugs considered for approval under conventional FDA procedures. In addition, the FDA may withdraw our fast track designation at any time. If we lose our fast track designation, the approval process may be delayed. In addition, our fast track designation does not guarantee that we will qualify for or be able to take advantage of the expedited review procedures and does not increase the likelihood that the Nuvion antibody will receive regulatory approval. We may be unable to enroll a sufficient number of patients in a timely manner in order to complete our clinical trials. The rate of completion of our clinical trials, and those of our collaborators, is significantly dependent upon the rate of patient enrollment. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including: • the size of the patient population; • perceived risks and benefits of the drug under study; • availability of competing therapies, including those in clinical development; • availability of clinical drug supply; • availability of clinical trial sites; • design of the protocol; • proximity of and access by patients to clinical sites; • patient referral practices of physicians; 25 Table of Contents • eligibility criteria for the study in question; and • efforts of the sponsor of and clinical sites involved in the trial to facilitate timely enrollment. We may have difficulty obtaining sufficient patient enrollment or clinician support to conduct our clinical trials as planned, and we may need to expend substantial additional funds to obtain access to resources or delay or modify our plans significantly. These considerations may result in our being unable to successfully achieve our projected development timelines, or potentially even lead us to consider the termination of ongoing clinical trials or development of a product for a particular indication. For example, our current expectations for registrational studies and regulatory approval for the Nuvion antibody are dependent on our ability to timely enroll a worldwide clinical program. Our royalty revenues from technologies we license to others depend on, among other things, the efforts and successes of our licensees. In those instances where we have licensed rights to our technologies, the product development and marketing efforts and successes of our licensees will, in part, determine the amount and timing of royalties we may receive, if any. We have no assurance that any licensee will successfully complete the product development, regulatory and marketing efforts required to sell products. The success of products sold by a licensee will be affected by competitive products, including potential competing therapies, that may be marketed by the licensee or others. In addition, even if a licensee receives regulatory approval to sell a drug on which we would receive royalties, the marketing of such drug could be suspended or terminated either voluntarily by the licensee or by order of a regulatory agency or other governmental body as a result of safety or other events. For example, in February 2005, Biogen Idec and Elan announced that they had voluntarily suspended the marketing and commercial distribution of the Tysabri antibody, a drug approved to treat MS and which is licensed under our humanization patents, because Biogen Idec and Elan had received reports of cases of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), a rare and frequently fatal, demyelinating disease of the central nervous system, in certain patients treated with Tysabri antibody. In July 2006, Biogen Idec and Elan reintroduced the Tysabri antibody, however, the Tysabri antibody’s label now includes prominent warnings regarding the Tysabri antibody’s risks and Biogen Idec and Elan implemented a risk management plan to inform physicians and patients of the benefits and risks of Tysabri antibody treatment and to minimize the risk of PML potentially associated with Tysabri antibody monotherapy. If we do not attract and retain key employees, our business could be impaired. To be successful, we must attract additional and retain qualified clinical, manufacturing, commercial, scientific and management personnel. To achieve our objectives, we expect to expand our operations and increase the number of our employees significantly. If we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, particularly at the management level, our business could be impaired. We continue to seek to hire and retain key personnel; however, we face significant competition for experienced personnel. We believe that the move of our corporate headquarters from Fremont, California, to Redwood City, California, in the second half of 2007, may before and for a period after the move cause employee turnover to increase and make retaining key employees more difficult because our new headquarters is 12 miles away from our current headquarters and on the other side of the San Francisco Bay, which will increase the commute time of the many employees that reside in and around Fremont, California, and the greater East Bay Area of the San Francisco Bay Area. Our own ability to manufacture our products on a commercial scale is uncertain, which may make it more difficult to sell our products. The manufacture of antibodies for use as therapeutics in compliance with regulatory requirements is complex, time-consuming and expensive. We will need to manufacture such antibody therapeutic products in a facility and by an appropriately validated process that comply with FDA, European, and other regulations. Our manufacturing operations will be subject to ongoing, periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and state agencies to ensure compliance with good manufacturing practices. If we are unable to manufacture product or product candidates in accordance with FDA and European good manufacturing practices, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our products. 26 Table of Contents We intend to continue to manufacture potential products for use in preclinical and clinical trials using our manufacturing facility in Brooklyn Park, Minnesota in accordance with standard procedures that comply with appropriate regulatory standards. The manufacture of sufficient quantities of antibodies that comply with these standards is an expensive, time-consuming and complex process and subject to a number of risks that could result in delays or the inability to produce sufficient quantities of such products in a commercially viable manner. Our collaborative partners and we have experienced some manufacturing difficulties. Product supply interruptions could significantly delay clinical development of our potential products, reduce third-party or clinical researcher interest and support of proposed clinical trials, and possibly delay commercialization and sales of these products. Manufacturing difficulties can also interrupt the supply of marketed products, thereby reducing revenues and risking loss of market share. We do not have experience in manufacturing commercial supplies of our potential products, nor do we currently have sufficient facilities to manufacture all of our potential products on a commercial scale. To obtain regulatory approvals and to create capacity to produce our products for commercial sale ourselves at an acceptable cost, we will need to improve and significantly expand our manufacturing capabilities. Our current plans are to use our new manufacturing plant in order to manufacture initial commercial supplies of the Nuvion product and daclizumab. Our ability to file for, and to obtain, regulatory approvals for such products, as well as the timing of such filings, will depend on our ability to successfully operate our manufacturing plant. We may encounter problems with the following: • production yields; • quality control and assurance; • availability of qualified personnel; • availability of raw materials; • adequate training of new and existing personnel; • on-going compliance with our standard operating procedures; • on-going compliance with FDA regulations; • production costs; and • development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Failure to successfully operate our manufacturing plant, or to obtain regulatory approval or to successfully produce commercial supplies on a timely basis could delay commercialization of our products. In addition, our collaboration with Biogen Idec involving daclizumab may be significantly negatively impacted by our failure to successfully operate and receive regulatory approval of our Brooklyn Park, Minnesota manufacturing facility. Manufacturing changes may result in delays in obtaining regulatory approval or marketing for our products. If we make changes in the manufacturing process, we may be required to demonstrate to the FDA and corresponding foreign authorities that the changes have not caused the resulting drug material to differ significantly from the drug material previously produced. Changing the manufacturing site of a drug is considered to be a change in the manufacturing process for that drug, therefore, moving production to our Brooklyn Park, Minnesota manufacturing facility from our Plymouth, Minnesota facility or from third parties will entail manufacturing changes that would require FDA approval. Further, any significant manufacturing changes for the production of our product candidates could result in delays in development or regulatory approval or in the reduction or interruption of commercial sales of our product candidates. Our inability to maintain our manufacturing operations in compliance with applicable regulations within our planned time and cost parameters could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. With respect to our volociximab antibody, ICOS Corporation (ICOS), a wholly owned subsidiary of Eli Lilly and Company, has manufactured all of the drug material contemplated for use in our current Phase 2 clinical studies. Biogen Idec and we will need to demonstrate that the volociximab drug material produced will be sufficiently bioequivalent to the ICOS-produced drug material to use in future clinical studies in order to avoid delays in development or regulatory approval for this antibody. 27 Table of Contents We have made manufacturing changes and are likely to make additional manufacturing changes for the production of our products currently in clinical development. These manufacturing changes or an inability to immediately show comparability between the older material and the newer material after making manufacturing changes could result in delays in development or regulatory approvals or in reduction or interruption of commercial sales and could impair our competitive position. Competition and rapid technological change may adversely affect our revenues. Potential competitors have developed and are developing human and humanized antibodies or other compounds for treating autoimmune and inflammatory diseases, transplantation, asthma and cancers. In addition, a number of academic and commercial organizations are actively pursuing similar technologies, and several companies have developed, are developing, or may develop technologies that may compete with our antibody technology platform. Competitors may succeed in more rapidly developing and marketing technologies and products that are more effective than our products or that would render our products or technology obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, our collaborative partners may also independently develop products that are competitive with products that we have licensed to them. This could reduce our revenues under our agreements with these partners. Any product that our collaborative partners or we succeed in developing and for which regulatory approval is obtained must then compete for market acceptance and market share. The relative speed with which we and our collaborative partners can develop products, complete the clinical testing and approval processes, and supply commercial quantities of the products to the market compared to competitive companies will affect market success. In addition, the amount of marketing and sales resources and the effectiveness of the marketing used with respect to a product will affect its marketing success. We may be unable to obtain or maintain regulatory approval for our products and the marketing and sale of our products could result in violations of law or regulations. All of our development products are subject to risks associated with applicable government regulations. The manufacturing, testing and marketing of our products are subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. In the United States, pharmaceutical products are subject to rigorous FDA regulation. Additionally, other federal, state and local regulations govern the manufacture, testing, clinical and non-clinical studies to assess safety and efficacy, approval, advertising and promotion of pharmaceutical products. The process of obtaining approval for a new pharmaceutical product or for additional therapeutic indications within this regulatory framework requires a number of years and the expenditure of substantial resources. Companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including us, have suffered significant setbacks in various stages of clinical trials, even in advanced clinical trials after promising results had been obtained in earlier trials. Even if marketing approval from the FDA is received, the FDA may impose post-marketing requirements, such as: • labeling and advertising requirements, restrictions or limitations, such as the inclusion of warnings, precautions, contra-indications or use limitations that could have a material impact on the future profitability of our product candidates; • adverse event reporting; • testing and surveillance to monitor our product candidates and their continued compliance with regulatory requirements; and • inspection of products and manufacturing operations and, if any inspection reveals that the product or operation is not in compliance, prohibiting the sale of all products, suspending manufacturing or withdrawing market clearance. The discovery of previously unknown problems with our product candidates, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in restrictions of the products, including withdrawal from manufacture. Additionally, certain material changes affecting an approved product such as manufacturing changes or additional labeling claims are subject to further FDA review and approval. The FDA may revisit and change its prior determination with regard to the safety or efficacy of our products and withdraw any required approvals after we obtain them. Even prior to any formal regulatory action requiring labeling changes or affecting manufacturing, we could voluntarily decide to cease the distribution and sale or recall any of our future products if concerns about their safety and efficacy develop. 28 Table of Contents As part of the regulatory approval process, we must demonstrate the ability to manufacture the pharmaceutical product. Accordingly, the manufacturing process and quality control procedures are required to comply with the applicable FDA cGMP regulations and other regulatory requirements. Good manufacturing practice regulations include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturing facilities, including our facility, must pass an inspection by the FDA before initiating commercial manufacturing of any product. Pharmaceutical product manufacturing establishments are also subject to inspections by state and local authorities as well as inspections by authorities of other countries. To supply pharmaceutical products for use in the United States, foreign manufacturing establishments must comply with these FDA approved guidelines. These foreign manufacturing establishments are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA or by corresponding regulatory agencies in these countries under reciprocal agreements with the FDA. The FDA enforces post-marketing regulatory requirements, such as cGMP requirements, through periodic unannounced inspections. We do not know whether we will pass any future FDA inspections. Failure to pass an inspection could disrupt, delay or shut down our manufacturing operations. For the marketing of pharmaceutical products outside the United States, our collaborative partners and we are subject to foreign regulatory requirements and, if the particular product is manufactured in the United States, FDA and other U.S. export provisions. Requirements relating to the manufacturing, conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, promotion, pricing and reimbursement vary widely in different countries. Difficulties or unanticipated costs or price controls may be encountered by us or our licensees or marketing partners in our respective efforts to secure necessary governmental approvals. This could delay or prevent us, our licensees or our marketing partners from marketing potential pharmaceutical products. Both before and after approval is obtained, a biologic pharmaceutical product, its manufacturer and the holder of the BLA for the pharmaceutical product are subject to comprehensive regulatory oversight. The FDA may deny approval to a BLA if applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied. Moreover, even if regulatory approval is granted, such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the pharmaceutical product may be marketed. In their regulation of advertising, the FDA, the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Health and Human Services, among others, may investigate whether particular advertising or promotional practices are false, misleading or deceptive. These agencies may impose a wide array of sanctions on companies for such advertising practices. Additionally, physicians may prescribe pharmaceutical or biologic products for uses that are not described in a product’s labeling or differ from those tested by us and approved by the FDA. While such “off-label” uses are common and the FDA does not regulate physicians’ choice of treatments, the FDA does restrict a manufacturer’s communications on the subject of “off-label” use. The FDA prohibits the marketing of any pharmaceutical or biologic products for off-label uses. If our advertising or promotional activities fail to comply with applicable regulations or guidelines, including with respect to off-label use, we may be subject to warnings, fines, sanctions or other enforcement action. Further, regulatory approvals may be withdrawn if we do not comply with regulatory standards or if problems with our marketed products occur. In addition, under a BLA, the manufacturer continues to be subject to facility inspection and the applicant must assume responsibility for compliance with applicable pharmaceutical product and establishment standards. If we fail to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements at any stage during the regulatory process, we may be subject to sanctions, including: • delays; • warning letters; • fines; • clinical holds; • product recalls or seizures; • changes to advertising; • injunctions; • refusal of the FDA to review pending market approval applications or supplements to approval applications; • total or partial suspension of product manufacturing, distribution, marketing and sales; • civil penalties; • withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications; and • criminal prosecutions. 29 Table of Contents If our products candidates do not gain market acceptance among the medical community, our revenues would be adversely affected and might not be sufficient to support our operations. Our product candidates may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, third-party payers and the medical community. We may not achieve market acceptance even if clinical trials demonstrate safety and efficacy, and the necessary regulatory and reimbursement approvals are obtained. The degree of market acceptance of any product candidates that we develop will depend on a number of factors, including: • establishment and demonstration of clinical efficacy and safety; • cost-effectiveness of our product candidates; • their potential advantage over alternative treatment methods; • reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers; and • marketing and distribution support for our product candidates, including the efforts of our collaborators where they have marketing and distribution responsibilities. Physicians will not recommend therapies using our products until clinical data or other factors demonstrate the safety and efficacy of such procedures as compared to conventional drug and other treatments. Even if we establish the clinical safety and efficacy of therapies using our product candidates, physicians may elect not to recommend the therapies for any number of other reasons, including whether the mode of administration of our products is effective for certain indications. Antibody products, including our product candidates as they would be used for certain disease indications, are typically administered by infusion or injection, which requires substantial cost and inconvenience to patients. Our product candidates, if successfully developed, will compete with a number of drugs and therapies manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical and other biotechnology companies. Our products may also compete with new products currently under development by others. Physicians, patients, third-party payers and the medical community may not accept or utilize any product candidates that we, or our customers, develop. The failure of our product candidates to achieve significant market acceptance would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be harmed if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials. We depend on outside vendors for the supply of raw materials used to produce our products and product candidates. Once a supplier’s materials have been selected for use in the manufacturing process, the supplier in effect becomes a sole or limited source of that raw material due to regulatory compliance procedures. If the third-party suppliers were to cease production or otherwise fail to supply us with quality raw materials and we were unable to contract on acceptable terms for these services with alternative suppliers, our ability to produce our products and to conduct preclinical testing and clinical trials of product candidates would be adversely affected. This could impair our competitive position. For example, one of our contract manufacturers recently had production issues and incurred additional production costs. As a result, we agreed to share the related costs even though we are only responsible for purchasing the inventory from successfully manufactured lots. We may be subject to product liability claims, and our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover these claims. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that products sold by us or the use of products during research and development efforts or after commercialization results in adverse effects. This risk exists even with respect to any products that receive regulatory approval for commercial sale. While we maintain liability insurance for our products, it may not be sufficient to satisfy any or all liabilities that may arise. Also, adequate insurance coverage may not be available in the future at acceptable cost, if at all. We may incur significant costs in order to comply with environmental regulations or to defend claims arising from accidents involving the use of hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, discharge, handling and disposal of materials and wastes used in our operations. As a result, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with these laws and regulations. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages and incur liabilities, which exceed our resources. In addition, we cannot predict the extent of the adverse effect on our business or the financial and other costs that might result from any new government requirements arising out of future legislative, administrative or judicial actions. 30 Table of Contents Changes in the U.S. and international health care industry could adversely affect our revenues. The U.S. and international health care industry is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences that may significantly affect the purchasing practices and pricing of pharmaceuticals. The FDA and other health care policies may change, and additional government regulations may be enacted, which could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. Cost containment measures, whether instituted by health care providers or imposed by government health administration regulators or new regulations, could result in greater selectivity in the purchase of drugs. As a result, third-party payers may challenge the price and cost effectiveness of our products. In addition, in many major markets outside the United States, pricing approval is required before sales can commence. As a result, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of approved health care products. We may not be able to obtain or maintain our desired price for our products. Our products may not be considered cost effective relative to alternative therapies. As a result, adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain prices sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. Also, the trend towards managed health care in the United States and the concurrent growth of organizations such as health maintenance organizations, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may all result in lower prices, reduced reimbursement levels and diminished markets for our products. These factors will also affect the products that are marketed by our collaborative partners. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we might not be permitted to market our future products and our business could suffer. Our common stock price is highly volatile and an investment in our company could decline in value. Market prices for securities of biotechnology companies, including ourselves, have been highly volatile, and we expect such volatility to continue for the foreseeable future, so that investment in our securities involves substantial risk. For example, during the period from January 1, 2006 to February 22, 2007, our common stock closed as high as $32.80 per share and as low as $16.51 per share. Additionally, the stock market from time to time has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The following are some of the factors that may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock: • developments or disputes as to patent or other proprietary rights; • disappointing sales of our marketed products; • approval or introduction of competing products and technologies; • disappointing sales of products from which we receive royalties; • withdrawal from the market of an approved product from which we receive royalties; • results of clinical trials; • failures or unexpected delays in timelines for our potential products in development, including the obtaining of regulatory approvals; • changes in reimbursement policies; • delays in manufacturing or clinical trial plans; • fluctuations in our operating results; • disputes or disagreements with collaborative partners; • developments in our relationships with customers; • market reaction to announcements by other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including market reaction to various announcements regarding products licensed under our technology; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial therapeutic products by us or our competitors; • initiation, termination or modification of agreements with our collaborative partners; • loss of key personnel; • litigation or the threat of litigation; • public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by us; 31 Table of Contents • sales of our common stock held by collaborative partners or insiders; • comments and expectations of results made by securities analysts; and • general market conditions. If any of these factors causes us to fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, or if adverse conditions prevail or are perceived to prevail with respect to our business, the price of the common stock would likely drop significantly. A significant drop in the price of a company’s common stock often leads to the filing of securities class action litigation against the company. This type of litigation against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Legislative actions, potential new accounting pronouncements and higher insurance costs are likely to impact our future financial position or results of operations. Future changes in financial accounting standards, including changes in accounting for stock options, may cause adverse, unexpected fluctuations in the timing of the recognition of revenues or expenses and may affect our financial position or results of operations. For example, the compensation expense reported under SFAS 123(R) has had, and will continue to have, a significant adverse effect on our reported financial condition beginning in 2006 and may impact the way we conduct our business. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure has resulted in additional expenses, and the expenses have been, and may in the future be unpredictable, and adversely affect our results. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new Securities and Exchange Commission regulations or guidance and Nasdaq Global Select Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours and insurance costs are increasing as a result of this uncertainty and other factors. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. We may not have the ability to raise the funds to repurchase the 2003 Notes on the repurchase date or to finance any repurchase offer required by the indenture. In August 2010, August 2013 and August 2018, respectively, holders of the 2003 Notes may require us to repurchase all or a portion of their 2003 Notes at 100% of their principal amount, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, such date. For 2003 Notes to be repurchased in August 2010, we must pay for the repurchase in cash, and we may pay for the repurchase of 2003 Notes to be repurchased in August 2013 and August 2018, at our option, in cash, shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock. In addition, if a repurchase event occurs (as defined in the indenture), each holder of the 2003 Notes may require us to repurchase all or a portion of the holder’s 2003 Notes. We cannot assure you that there will be sufficient funds available for any required repurchases of these securities. In addition, the terms of any agreements related to borrowing which we may enter into from time to time may prohibit or limit our repurchase of 2003 Notes or make our repurchase of 2003 Notes an event of default under certain circumstances. If a repurchase event occurs at a time when a credit agreement prohibits us from purchasing the 2003 Notes, we could seek the consent of the lender to purchase the 2003 Notes or could attempt to refinance the debt covered by the credit agreement. If we do not obtain a consent, we may not repurchase the 2003 Notes. Our failure to repurchase tendered 2003 Notes would constitute an event of default under the indenture for the 2003 Notes, which might also constitute a default under the terms of our other debt, including the 2005 Notes. In such circumstances, our financial condition and the value of our securities could be materially harmed. We may not have sufficient cash to purchase the 2005 Notes, if required, upon a fundamental change. Holders of the 2005 Notes may require us to purchase all or any portion of their 2005 Notes upon a fundamental change, which generally is defined as the occurrence of any of the following: (1) our common stock is not traded on a national securities exchange or listed on The Nasdaq Global Select Market; (2) any person acquires more than 50% of the total voting power of all shares of our capital stock; (3) certain mergers, consolidations, sales or transfers involving us occur; or (4) our board of directors does not consist of continuing directors. In certain situations, holders of the 2005 Notes will not have a repurchase right even if a fundamental change has occurred. In addition, we may not have sufficient cash funds to repurchase the 2005 Notes upon such a fundamental change. Although there are currently no restrictions on our ability to pay the purchase price, future debt agreements may prohibit us from repaying the purchase price. If we are prohibited from repurchasing the 2005 Notes, we could seek consent from our lenders at the time to repurchase the 2005 Notes. If we are unable to obtain their consent, we could attempt to refinance 32 Table of Contents their debt. If we were unable to obtain consent or refinance the debt, we would be prohibited from repurchasing the 2005 Notes upon a fundamental change. If we were unable to purchase the 2005 Notes upon a fundamental change, it would result in an event of default under the indenture. An event of default under the indenture could result in a further event of default under our other then-existing debt. In addition, the occurrence of the fundamental change may be an event of default under our other debt, which could have a significant adverse affect on our financial condition. If any or all of our outstanding 2003 Notes or 2005 Notes are converted into shares of our common stock, existing common stockholders will experience immediate dilution and, as a result, our stock price may go down. Our 2003 Notes and 2005 Notes are convertible, at the option of the holder, into shares of our common stock at varying conversion prices. We have reserved shares of our authorized common stock for issuance upon conversion of our 2003 Notes and the 2005 Notes. If any or all of our 2003 Notes or the 2005 Notes are converted into shares of our common stock, our existing stockholders will experience immediate dilution and our common stock price may be subject to downward pressure. If any or all of our 2003 Notes or 2005 Notes are not converted into shares of our common stock before their respective maturity dates, we will have to pay the holders of such notes the full aggregate principal amount of the 2003 Notes or 2005 Notes, respectively, then outstanding. Any such payment would have a material adverse effect on our cash position. Charges to earnings as a result of amortization or impairment of assets resulting from our acquisitions may adversely affect the market value of our common stock. In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we accounted for the acquisition of ESP Pharma, the acquisition of the rights to the Retavase product and the acquisition of certain rights with respect to daclizumab using the purchase method of accounting, which resulted in charges to earnings in the year of acquisition and which will result in ongoing expenses due to the amortization and depreciation of certain assets acquired in those transactions. Under the purchase method of accounting, we allocated the total estimated purchase price to ESP Pharma’s net tangible assets, amortizable intangible assets and in-process research and development based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the merger, and recorded the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. The portion of the purchase price of ESP Pharma allocated to in-process research and development in the amount of $79.4 million was expensed by the combined company in the first quarter of 2005. We will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired in connection with the acquisition transactions. In addition, to the extent the value of acquired intangible assets becomes impaired in the future, as experienced with the review for impairment of the off-patent products in the second half of 2005, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of such assets, and possibly goodwill as well. These depreciation, amortization, in-process research and development and potential impairment charges could have a material impact on the combined company’s results of operations and the market value of our common stock. For example, during the fourth quarter of 2006, we recognized a $72.1 million impairment charge related to our Retavase intangible assets as discussed in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Failure to achieve revenue targets or raise additional funds in the future may require us to reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our planned activities. The acquisitions of ESP Pharma and certain rights to the Retavase product required net cash payments of approximately $432.5 million. While we believe we have sufficient funds for our anticipated operations, we will need to generate significantly greater revenues to achieve and then maintain profitability on an annual basis. The product development, including clinical trials, manufacturing and regulatory approvals of product candidates currently in development, and the acquisition and development of additional product candidates by us will require a commitment of substantial funds. Our future funding requirements, which may be significantly greater than we expect, depend upon many factors, including: • the extent to which our Cardene products are commercially successful; • the extent to which we can maintain our Retavase product sales relative to recent historical levels; • the progress, level and timing of research and development activities related to clinical trials we are conducting or that are being conducting in collaboration with our partners, including clinical trials with respect to daclizumab, Nuvion antibody, ularitide and volociximab; • the cost and outcomes of regulatory submissions and reviews; • the continuation or termination of third party manufacturing or sales and marketing arrangements; • the cost and effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs; • the status of competitive products; 33 Table of Contents • our ability to defend and enforce our intellectual property rights; • our ability to extend the patent protection of our currently marketed products; and • the establishment of additional strategic or licensing arrangements with other companies, or acquisitions. We face substantial competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing competing products before or more successfully than we do. Our industry is highly competitive. Our success will depend on our ability to acquire and develop products and apply technology, and our ability to establish and maintain markets for our products. Potential competitors in the United States and other countries include major pharmaceutical and chemical companies, specialized pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions. In addition, our products may face significant competition from both brand-name and generic manufacturers that could adversely affect the future sales of our products. In addition, competitors may succeed in developing products and technologies that are more effective or less costly than our products, or that would render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. Our ability to generate future revenues from products will be affected by reimbursement and drug pricing. Acceptable levels of reimbursement of drug treatments by government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations will have an effect on our ability to successfully commercialize, and attract collaborative partners to invest in the development of, our combined portfolio of product candidates. We cannot be sure that reimbursement in the United States or elsewhere will be available for any products that we may develop or, if already available, will not be decreased in the future. If reimbursement is not available or is available only to limited levels, we may not be able to commercialize products, and may not be able to obtain a satisfactory financial return on products. Third-party payers increasingly are challenging prices charged for medical products and services. Also, the trend toward managed health care in the United States and the changes in health insurance programs, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may result in lower prices for pharmaceutical products, including our products. Cost-cutting measures that health care providers are instituting, and the effect of any health care reform, could materially adversely affect our ability to sell any products that are successfully developed and approved. Moreover, we are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business. We will spend considerable time and money complying with federal and state regulations and, if we are unable to fully comply with such regulations, we could face substantial penalties. We may be subject, directly or through our customers, to extensive regulation by both the federal government, and the states and foreign countries in which we conduct our business. Laws that may directly or indirectly affect our ability to operate our business include, but are not limited, to the following: • the federal Anti-Kickback Law, which prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce either the referral of an individual, or furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; • the federal False Claims Act, which imposes civil and criminal liability on individuals and entities who submit, or cause to be submitted, false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government; • the federal False Statements Statute, which prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services; • the federal Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits corporations and individuals from engaging in certain activities to obtain or retain business or to influence a person working in an official capacity; and • state law equivalents to the Anti-Kickback Law and False Claims Act, which may not be limited to government reimbursed items. 34 Table of Contents If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or the other governmental regulations to which we or our customers are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Similarly, if the hospitals, physicians or other providers or entities with which we do business are found non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on us. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations, and additional legal or regulatory change. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 35 Table of Contents 