Item 1A. Risk Factors” and other factors discussed elsewhere in this report. Moreover, as a result of our intended future growth and our intended expansion of our businesses, products and services, we may incur expenses in future periods, including significant costs in developing and expanding the core distributed generation business of PowerSecure and the three new businesses of PowerSecure that could adversely affect our operating results or cause them to fall below recent levels. If our future growth rates, revenues and margins do not meet our expectations, or if our operating expenses exceed what we anticipate, our results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to lawsuits, claims and proceedings from time to time, and in the future we could become subject to new lawsuits, and if any of those lawsuits are material and are successfully prosecuted against us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to lawsuits, claims and other proceedings from time to time, and we have been subject to lawsuits in the past that have had a material impact on us. In addition, one significant lawsuit in which we are involved is still pending. Our current proceedings are described in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” In the future, we may become involved in other lawsuits, claims and proceedings, including some that arise in the ordinary course of business. We cannot provide any assurance that any such future litigation, claims and proceedings could not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. Even if we are successful on the merits, any such lawsuits, claims or proceedings could be time-consuming and expensive to defend or settle and could result in the diversion of significant management time and operational resources, which could materially and adversely affect us. We extend product warranties which could adversely affect our operating results. We provide a standard one year warranty for hardware product sales and distributed generation equipment. In addition, we offer extended warranty terms on our distributed generation turn-key projects as well as certain hardware products. We reserve for the estimated cost of product warranties when revenue is recognized, and we evaluate our reserve periodically by comparing our warranty repair experience by product. While we engage in product quality programs and processes, including monitoring and evaluating the quality of our components suppliers and development of methods to remotely detect and correct failures, our warranty obligation is affected by actual product failure rates, parts and equipment costs and service labor costs incurred in correcting a product failure. In addition, our operating history in the distributed generation market is limited. If actual product failure rates, parts and equipment costs, or service labor costs exceed our estimates, our operating results could be adversely impacted. 19 Because we are dependent upon the utility industry for a significant portion of our revenue, continued reductions of purchases of our products and services by utilities caused by regulatory reform may materially and adversely affect our business. We currently derive a significant portion of our revenue from sales by Metretek Florida of its products and services to the utility industry, and particularly the natural gas utility industry. A key reason that we have experienced variability of operating results on both an annual and quarterly basis has been utility purchasing patterns, including delays of purchasing decisions, as the result of mergers and acquisitions in the utility industry and potential changes to the federal and state regulatory framework within which the utility industry operates. The utility industry is generally characterized by long budgeting, purchasing and regulatory process cycles that can take up to several years to complete. Our utility customers typically issue requests for quotes and proposals, establish committees to evaluate the purchase proposals, review different technical options with vendors, analyze performance and cost/benefit justifications and perform a regulatory review, in addition to applying a normal budget approval process within the utility. In addition, utilities may defer purchases of our products and services if the utilities reduce capital expenditures as the result of mergers and acquisitions, pending or unfavorable regulatory decisions, poor revenues due to weather conditions, rising interest rates or general economic downturns, among other factors. The natural gas utility industry has been virtually the sole market for Metretek Florida’s products and services. However, over the last few years, the uncertainty in the utility industry that has resulted from the regulatory uncertainty in the current era of deregulation has caused utilities to defer even further purchases of Metretek Florida’s products and services. The continuation of this uncertain regulatory climate will materially and adversely affect our revenues. The domestic utility industry is currently the focus of regulatory reform initiatives in virtually every state. These initiatives have resulted in significant uncertainty for industry participants and raise concerns regarding assets that would not be considered for recovery through rate payer charges. This regulatory climate has caused many utilities to delay purchasing decisions that involve significant capital commitments. As a result of these purchasing decision delays, utilities have reduced their purchases of our products and services. While we expect some states will act on these regulatory reform initiatives in the near future, we cannot assure you that the current regulatory uncertainty will be resolved in the short term. In addition, new regulatory initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, in part as a result of the competitive pressures in the utility industry arising from the regulatory reform process, many utilities are pursuing merger and acquisition strategies. We have experienced considerable delays in purchase decisions by utilities that have become parties to merger or acquisition transactions. Typically, capital expenditure purchase decisions are put on hold indefinitely when merger negotiations begin. If this pattern of merger and acquisition activity among utilities continues, our business may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if any of the utilities that account for a significant portion of our revenues decide to significantly reduce their purchases of our products and services, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Many of our products and services experience long and variable sales cycles, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations for any given quarter or year. Our products and services are often used by our customers to address critical business needs. Customers generally consider a wide range of issues before making a decision to purchase our products and services. In addition, the purchase of some of our products and services involves a significant commitment of capital and other resources by a customer. This commitment often requires significant technical review, assessment of competitive products and approval at a number of management levels within a customer’s organization. Our sales cycle may vary based on the industry in which the potential customer operates and is difficult to predict for any particular transaction. The length and variability of our sales cycle makes it difficult to predict whether particular sales will be concluded in any given quarter. While our customers are evaluating our products and services before they place an order with us, we may incur substantial sales and marketing and research and development expenses to customize our products to the customer’s needs. We may also expend significant management efforts, increase manufacturing capacity and order long-lead-time components or materials prior to receiving an order. Even after this evaluation process, a potential customer may not purchase our products. As a result, these long sales cycles may cause us to incur significant expenses without ever receiving revenue to offset those expenses. 20 If we are unable to develop new and enhanced products and services that achieve market acceptance in a timely manner, our operating results and competitive position could be harmed. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new and enhanced products and services that achieve market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner. The development of technology is often complex, and we occasionally have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products and services and enhancements thereof. Successful development and market acceptance of our products and services depends on a number of factors, including: • the changing requirements of customers; • the accurate prediction of market requirements; • the timely completion and introduction of new products and services; • the quality, price and performance of new products and services; • the availability, quality, price and performance of competing products, services and technologies; • our customer service and support capabilities and responsiveness; • the successful development of our relationships with existing and potential customers; and • changes in technology, industry standards or end-user preferences. We cannot provide assurance that products and services that we have recently developed or may develop in the future will achieve market acceptance. If our new products and services fail to achieve market acceptance, or if we fail to develop new or enhanced products and services that achieve market acceptance, our growth prospects, operating results and competitive position could be adversely affected. Rapid technological changes may prevent us from remaining current with our technological resources and maintaining competitive product and service offerings. The markets in which our businesses operate are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent introductions of new and enhanced products and services, evolving industry standards and changes in customer needs. Significant technological changes could render our existing and planned new products, services and technology obsolete. Our future success will depend, in large part, upon our ability to: • effectively use and develop leading technologies; • continue to develop our technical expertise; • enhance our current products and services; • develop new products and services that meet changing customer needs; and • respond to emerging industry standards and technological changes in a cost-effective manner. If we are unable to successfully respond to these developments or if we do not respond to them in a cost-effective manner, then our business will be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in responding to changing technology or market needs. In addition, products, services and technologies developed by others may render our products, services and technology uncompetitive or obsolete. Even if we do successfully respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards, the integration of new technology may require substantial time and expense, and we cannot assure you that we will succeed in adapting our products, services and technology in a timely and cost-effective manner. We may experience financial or technical difficulties or limitations that could prevent us from introducing new or enhanced products or services. Furthermore, any of these new or enhanced products, services and technology could contain problems that are discovered after they are introduced. We may need to significantly modify the design of these products and services to correct problems. Rapidly changing technology and operating systems may impede market acceptance of our products, services and technology. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if we experience difficulties in introducing new or enhanced services and products or if these products and services are not received favorably by our customers. Development and enhancement of our products and services will require significant additional expenses and could strain our management, financial and operational resources. The lack of market acceptance of our 21 products or services or our inability to generate sufficient revenues from this development or enhancements to offset their costs could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the past, we have experienced delays in releasing new products and services and enhancements, and we may experience similar delays in the future. These delays or problems in the installation of implementation of our new products and services and enhancements may cause customers to forego purchases of our products and services to purchase those of our competitors. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain key personnel, our business will be materially and adversely affected. We believe our future success and performance will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, managerial, sales, marketing, finance and operations personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain these key employees in the future. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although we have entered into employment agreements with some of our executive officers, we generally do not have employment contracts with our other key employees. In addition, we do not have key person life insurance for most of our key personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our current key personnel or that we will be able to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect in the future to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. If we are unable to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We face intense competition in the markets for our products, services and technology, and if we cannot successfully compete in those markets, our business will be materially and adversely affected. The markets for our products, services and technology are intensely competitive and subject to rapidly changing technology, new competing products and services, frequent performance improvements and evolving industry standards. We expect the intensity of competition to increase in the future because the growth potential and deregulatory environment of the energy market have attracted and are anticipated to continue to attract many new competitors, including new businesses as well as established businesses from different industries. Competition may also increase as a result of industry consolidation. As a result of increased competition, we may have to reduce the price of our products and services, and we may experience reduced gross margins and loss of market share, which could significantly reduce our future revenues and operating results. Many of our existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, manufacturing and other resources than we do. This may enable our competitors to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or preferences and to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services than we can. Our competitors may be able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and make more attractive offers to potential employees, customers, strategic partners and suppliers and vendors than we can. Our competitors may develop products and services that are equal or superior to the products and services offered by us or that achieve greater market acceptance than our products do. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to improve their ability to address the needs of our existing and prospective customers. As a result, it is possible that new competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share or impede our ability to acquire market share in new markets. We cannot assure you that we will have the financial resources, technical expertise, portfolio of products and services or marketing and support capabilities to compete successfully in the future. Our inability to compete successfully or to timely respond to market demands or changes would have a material adverse effect on our business, conditions and results of operations. Downturns in general economic and market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business. There is always a potential for a downturn in general economic and market conditions. In recent years, some segments of the economy, including the technology industry in particular, have experienced significant economic downturns characterized by decreased product demand, price erosion, work slowdowns and layoffs. Moreover, there is increasing uncertainty in the energy and technology markets attributed to many factors, including international terrorism and strife, global economic conditions and strong competitive forces. Our future results of operations may experience substantial fluctuations from period to period as a consequence of these factors, and such conditions and other factors affecting capital spending may affect the timing of orders from major customers. An 22 economic downturn coupled with a decline in our revenues could adversely affect our ability meet our capital requirement, support our working capital requirements and growth objectives, maintain our existing financing arrangements, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result, any economic downturns generally or in our markets specifically, particularly those affecting industrial and commercial users of natural gas and electricity, would have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to effectively manage our future growth, our ability to market and sell our products and services and to provide quality service to our customers may be adversely affected. Our revenues, business operations and number of employees have grown significantly in recent years, primarily in response to the growth in PowerSecure’s business. We anticipate further growth, especially as PowerSecure expands into new lines of business and geographic areas. This growth has placed in the past, and we expect it will continue to place in the future, a significant strain on our management and operational resources, including our ability to timely and cost-effectively satisfy our customers’ demand requirements. We must plan and manage our growth effectively in order to offer our products and services and to achieve revenue growth and profitability in rapidly evolving markets. If we are not able to effectively manage our growth in the future, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We must also continue to hire, train and manage new employees at a rapid rate. If our new hires perform poorly, if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing and integrating these new employees, or if we are not successful in training our existing employees, our business may be harmed. Our management of MM 1995-2, a private program, presents risks to us. MGT is our subsidiary that manages and holds a minority ownership interest in MM 1995-2, a private program that owns and operates oil and gas production water disposal facilities. While MGT does not intend to form any new private programs, it may from time to time increase its economic interest in the program or initiate or manage actions intended to expand the program’s assets or activities. This program was financed by a private placement of equity interests raising capital to acquire the assets and business operated by the program. Our management of this program presents risks to us, including: • lawsuits by investors in this program who become dissatisfied with the results of the program; • material adverse changes in the business, results of operations and financial condition of the program due to events, conditions and factors outside of our control, such as general and local conditions affecting the oil and gas market generally and the revenues of the program specifically; • risks inherent in managing a program and taking significant actions that affect its investors; • changes in the regulatory environment relating to the program; • reliance upon significant suppliers and customers by the program; • hazards of oil production water disposal facilities, including environmental hazards; and • changes in technology. If any of these risks materialize and we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may be unable to acquire other businesses, technology or companies or engage in other strategic transactions, or to successfully realize the benefits or avoid the difficulties of any such strategic transactions. In the past, we have grown by acquiring complimentary businesses, technologies, services and products and entering into other strategic transactions to enhance our financial condition, results of operations and stockholder value. As part of our business strategy, we expect to continue to evaluate and consider potential strategic transactions, including business combinations, acquisitions and dispositions and strategic alliances, on an ongoing basis as they present themselves to facilitate our ability to enhance our existing and to develop new businesses, products, services and technology, and to enhance our financial condition, results of operations and stockholder value. At any given time we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of these types of transactions, and any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. However, we do not know if we will be able to identify any future opportunities that we believe will be beneficial for us. Even if we are able to identify an appropriate business opportunity, we may not be able to 23 successfully consummate the transaction, and even if we do consummate such a transaction we may be unable to obtain the benefits or avoid the difficulties and risks of such transaction. Any future acquisition involves risks commonly encountered in business relationships, including: • difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and services of the acquired business; • the technologies, products or businesses that we acquire may not achieve expected levels of revenue, profitability, benefits or productivity; • difficulties in retaining, training, motivating and integrating key personnel; • diversion of management’s time and resources away from our normal daily operations; • difficulties in successfully incorporating licensed or acquired technology and rights into our product and service offerings; • difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies within the combined organizations; • difficulties in retaining relationships with customers, employees and suppliers of the acquired company; • risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience; • potential disruptions of our ongoing businesses; and • unexpected costs and unknown liabilities associated with the acquisitions. For these reasons, future acquisitions could materially and adversely affect our existing businesses. Moreover, we cannot predict the accounting treatment of any acquisition, in part because we cannot be certain whether current accounting regulations, conventions or interpretations will prevail in the future. In addition, to finance any future acquisitions, it may be necessary for us to incur additional indebtedness or raise additional funds through public or private financings. These financings may not be available to us at all, or if available may not be available on terms satisfactory to us or to those whose consents are required for such financings. Available equity or debt financings may materially and adversely affect our business and operations and, in the case of equity financings, may significantly dilute the percentage ownership interests of our stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will make any additional acquisitions or that any acquisitions, if made, will be successful, will assist us in the accomplishment of our business strategy, or will generate sufficient revenues to offset the associated costs and other adverse effects or will otherwise result in us receiving the intended benefits of the acquisition. In addition, we cannot assure you that any acquisition of new businesses or technology will lead to the successful development of new or enhanced products and services, or that any new or enhanced products and services, if developed, will achieve market acceptance or prove to be profitable. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, we could lose important proprietary technology, which could materially and adversely affect our business. Our success and ability to compete depends, in substantial part, upon our ability to develop and protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights to distinguish our products, services and technology from those of our competitors. The unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights and proprietary technology by others could materially harm our business. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, along with confidentiality agreements, contractual provisions and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. Although we hold copyrights and trademarks in our business, and we have applied for a patent and the registration of a number of new trademarks and service marks and intend to introduce new trademarks and service marks, we believe that the success of our business depends more upon our proprietary technology, information, processes and know-how than on patents or trademark registrations. In addition, much of our proprietary information and technology may not be patentable. We may not be successful in obtaining any patents or in registering new marks. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, existing laws afford only limited protection, and our actions may be inadequate to protect our rights or to prevent others from claiming violations of their proprietary rights. Unauthorized third parties may attempt to copy, reverse engineer or otherwise obtain, use or 24 exploit aspects of our products and services, develop similar technology independently, or otherwise obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. We cannot assure you that our competitors will not independently develop technology similar or superior to our technology or design around our intellectual property. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights as fully or in the same manner as the laws of the United States. We may need to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, and to determine the validity and scope of other companies’ proprietary rights in the future. However, litigation could result in significant costs or in the diversion of management and financial resources. We cannot assure you that any such litigation will be successful or that we will prevail over counterclaims against us. Our failure to protect any of our important intellectual property rights or any litigation that we resort to in order to enforce those rights could materially and adversely affect our business. If we face claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties, we could encounter expensive litigation, be liable for significant damages or incur restrictions on our ability to sell our products and services. Although we are not aware of any present infringement of our products, services or technology on the intellectual property rights of others, we cannot be certain that our products, services and technologies do not or in the future will not infringe on the valid intellectual property rights held by third parties. In addition, we cannot assure you that third parties will not claim that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. In recent years, there has been a significant amount of litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. In the future, we may be a party to litigation as a result of an alleged infringement of others’ intellectual property. Successful infringement claims against us could result in substantial monetary liability, require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, or otherwise materially disrupt the conduct of our business. In addition, even if we prevail on these claims, this litigation could be time-consuming and expensive to defend or settle, and could result in the diversion of our time and attention and of operational resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling, incorporating or using our products and services that use the infringed intellectual property; • obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all; or • redesign the products and services that use the technology. If we are forced to take any of these actions, our business may be seriously harmed. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. We face some risks that are inherent in natural gas and electrical operations. Some of our operations are subject to the hazards and risks inherent in the servicing and operation of natural gas assets, including encountering unexpected pressures, explosions, fire, natural disasters, blowouts, cratering and pipeline ruptures, as well as in the manufacture, sale and operation of electrical equipment such as PowerSecure’s distributed generation system, including electrical shocks, which hazards and risks could result in personal injuries, loss of life, environmental damage and other damage to our properties and the properties of others. These operations involve numerous financial, business, regulatory, environmental, operating and legal risks. Damages occurring as a result of these risks may give rise to product liability claims against us. Losses due to risks and uncertainties could occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or could exceed our insurance coverage of up to $6 million coverage per occurrence and $7 million annual aggregate coverage. Therefore, the occurrence of a significant adverse effect that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material and adverse effect on our business. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at reasonable rates. 25 We could become subject to burdensome government regulation that affects our ability to offer our products and services or that affects demand for our products and services. Our business operations are subject to varying degrees of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. Regulatory agencies may impose special requirements for implementation and operation of our products, services or technology that may significantly impact or even eliminate some of our target markets. We may incur material costs or liabilities in complying with government regulations. In addition, potentially significant laws, regulations and requirements may be adopted or imposed in the future. For example, PowerSecure’s shared savings projects, and even its future turn-key projects, could be materially and adversely affected by new laws or regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, that would ban the ownership of power generation by a third party, such as PowerSecure. Furthermore, some of our customers must comply with numerous laws and regulations. The modification or adoption of future laws and regulations could adversely affect our business and our ability to continually modify or alter our methods of operations at reasonable costs. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be able, for financial or other reasons, to comply with all applicable laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could become subject to substantial penalties which could materially and adversely affect our business. Our business could suffer if we cannot maintain and expand our current strategic alliances and develop new alliances. One element of our business strategy is the development of corporate relationships such as strategic alliances with other companies and businesses to provide products and services to existing and new markets and to develop new products and services and enhancements to existing products and services. We believe that our success in the future in penetrating new markets will depend in large part on our ability to maintain these relationships and to cultivate additional or alternative relationships. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to develop new corporate relationships, or that these relationships will be successful in achieving their purposes. Our failure to continue our existing corporate relationships and develop new relationships could materially and adversely affect our business. Terrorist activities and other international hostilities, including the expanding hostilities in the Middle East, could adversely affect our business and our results of operations. The growing threat of terrorism throughout the world, the escalation of military action, and heightened security measures in response to such threats may cause significant disruption to commerce throughout the world, affecting our suppliers and our customers. For example, we acquire certain equipment for Metretek Florida’s products from manufacturers that have their operations in the Middle East, and the expanding hostilities in that region could disrupt their ability to manufacture, and thus supply to us, equipment and parts integral to our products, which would adversely affect our ability to sell our products and to generate income and cash flow. In addition, to the extent that such disruptions result in reductions by our customers in their capital expenditures or spending on technology, or in longer sales cycles or the deferral or delay of customer orders, or otherwise adversely affect our ability to effectively market our products or services, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to the Ownership of our Shares Our charter documents, as well as Delaware law, contain anti-takeover provisions that could discourage or prevent a third-party acquisition of our common stock, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Some provisions in our second restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws, as well as some provisions of Delaware law, could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a third party from attempting to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to stockholders. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors in which only approximately one-third of the total board members are elected at each annual meeting; • the existence of large amounts of authorized but unissued shares of our common stock and our preferred stock; 26 • authority for our board of directors to issue shares of our common stock and our preferred stock, and to determine the price, voting and other rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of undesignated shares of preferred stock, without any vote by or approval of our stockholders; • super-majority voting requirements to effect material amendments to our second restated certificate and by-laws; • limiting the persons who may call a special meeting of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholders from acting by written consent without a meeting; • a fair price provision that sets minimum price requirements for potential acquirers under certain conditions; • anti-greenmail provisions which limit our ability to repurchase shares of common stock from significant stockholders; • restrictions under Delaware law on mergers and other business combinations between us and any 15% stockholders; and • advance notice requirements for director nominations and for stockholder proposals. In addition, we have entered into employment agreements with certain executive officers and other employees which, among other things, include severance and changes in control provisions. Our stockholder rights agreement makes effecting a change of control more difficult, which may discourage offers for shares of our common stock. Our board of directors has adopted an amended and restated rights agreement. Our rights agreement may have the effect of delaying, deterring, or preventing changes in our management or control of us, which may discourage potential acquirers who otherwise might wish to acquire us without the consent of the board of directors. Under the rights plan, if a person or group acquires 15% or more of our common stock, all holders of rights (other than the acquiring stockholder) may, upon payment of the purchase price then in effect, purchase common stock having a value of twice the purchase price. In the event that we are involved in a merger or other similar transaction where we are not the surviving corporation, all holders of rights (other than the acquiring stockholder) shall be entitled, upon payment of the then in effect purchase price, to purchase common stock of the surviving corporation having a value of twice the purchase price. The rights will expire on November 30, 2011, unless we extend the terms of the rights agreement or we earlier redeem or exchange the rights. We have not in the past and we do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock, and even if we change our intentions our ability to pay dividends is limited. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. Therefore, a stockholder will not experience a return on its investment in our common stock without selling its shares, because we currently intend on retaining any future earnings to fund our growth and do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future on the common stock. We currently intend to retain all future earnings, if any, for use in the operation and expansion of our business and for the servicing and repayment of indebtedness. As a holding company with no independent operations, our ability to pay dividends is dependant upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our subsidiaries. The terms of our credit facility limit our ability to pay dividends by prohibiting the payment of dividends by our subsidiaries without the consent of the lender. Future dividends, if any, will be determined by our board of directors, based upon our earnings, financial condition, capital resources, capital requirements, charter restrictions, contractual restrictions and such other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. The market for our common stock is volatile and subject to extreme trading price and volume fluctuations, which could adversely affect an investment in our common stock. The market price and volume of our common stock has in the past been, and in the future is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. For example, since January 1, 2006, the sales price of our common stock has fluctuated from a low of $10.49 to a high of $19.62. In general, the stock market has been experiencing extreme price and volume fluctuations for years, and the market prices of securities of technology companies have been especially volatile. A number of factors could cause wide fluctuations in the market price and trading volume of our common stock in the future, including: 27 • actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, significant technical innovations, new products or services, product improvements, significant contracts, strategic relationships or capital commitments; • the receipt, deferral or loss of significant customer orders; • the introduction of new products and services by us or our competitors; • the commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation or other legal or regulatory proceedings; • announcements by us or our competitors of the success or status of business; • conditions or trends in the energy and technology industries in general, and in the particular markets we serve; • changes in earnings or revenue guidance by us; • recommendations by securities analysts; • changes in, or the failure by us to meet, securities analysts’ estimates and expectations; • the lower coverage by securities analysts and the media of issuers with securities trading on the American Stock Exchange; • changes in the market valuation of other energy or technology companies; • additions or departures of key personnel; • sales of our common stock by our directors, executive officers and significant stockholders; and • general economic, business and market conditions. Many of these factors are beyond our control. The occurrence of any one or more of these factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fall, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, broad fluctuations in price and volume may be unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance, both of the market in general and of us in particular. Any significant fluctuations in the future might result in a material decline in the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation is often expensive to defend or settle and could divert management’s attention and operational resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, even if we ultimately prevail in the litigation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 