ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information included and incorporated by reference in this Annual Report, including the risk factors listed below. Any of these risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the trading price of shares of our common stock. Additional risks not currently known or currently material to us may also harm our business. Keep these risk factors in mind when you read forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report and the documents incorporated by reference in this Annual Report. These statements relate to our expectations about future events and time periods. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential,” “continue” or “opportunity,” the negative of these words or words of similar import. Similarly, statements that describe our reserves and our future plans, strategies, intentions, expectations, objectives, goals or prospects are also forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and future events and circumstances could differ significantly from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Our antibody humanization patents, which are of significant value to us, are being challenged in various administrative proceedings and a successful challenge could limit our future revenues. Two of the Queen et al. patents were issued to us by the European Patent Office, the ‘216 Patent and the European Patent No. 0 682 040 Patent (the ‘040 Patent). Eighteen notices of opposition to our ‘216 Patent and eight notices of opposition to our ‘040 Patent were filed by major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, among others. On October 14, 2009, the European Patent Office Technical Board of Appeal upheld the Opposition Division’s revocation of our ‘040 Patent on formal issues. The Technical Board of Appeal did not consider substantive issues of patentability. Each of our granted and applied for SPCs are based on the ‘216 Patent. As a result, the European Patent Office Technical Board of Appeal’s decision regarding the ‘040 Patent will not have an effect on our right to receive royalties beyond December 27, 2009. However, an adverse decision in the pending European opposition to our ‘216 Patent will have a material negative impact on our ability to collect royalties on European sales of our licensees’ products manufactured outside the United States and could encourage challenges to our related Queen et al. patents in other jurisdictions including the United States. In addition, the PTO has declared interference proceedings between certain claims of our patents and certain pending claims of Adair et al under 35 U.S.C. Section 135(a). On February 25, 2009, Interference No. 105,688 was declared between certain claims of the ‘089 Patent and certain pending claims of Adair et al., U.S. Application No. 08/846,658 (the ‘658 Application), and on November 23, 2009, Interference No. 105,705 was declared between certain claims of the ‘370 Patent and certain pending claims of Adair et al., U.S. Application 10/938,117 (the ‘117 Application). Any final decision in an interference proceeding, if adverse to the claim of an applicant, is a final refusal by the PTO of the claims involved. A final judgment adverse to us from which no 8 Table of Contents appeal or other review has been or can be taken or had constitutes cancellation of the claims involved in the patent and could have a material negative impact on our ability to collect royalties on the sale or manufacture of licensees products in the United States. The ‘216 Patent is also discussed in the following risk factor. See “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” Our right to continue to collect royalties based on European sales and manufacture may depend on our ability to enforce our ‘216 Patent claims under our supplementary protection certificates. We have applied for SPCs under our ‘216 Patent in various European national patent offices to cover Avastin, Herceptin, Xolair, Lucentis, Synagis, Tysabri and Cimzia (collectively, the SPC Products). Because our ‘216 Patent expired on December 28, 2009, our ability to collect revenues for manufacture and sale of the SPC Products in Europe will depend on the enforceability of the patent claims underlying our SPCs which generally expire in 2014. These SPCs extend the enforceability of our ‘216 Patent against the SPC Products, but are subject to the varying, complex and evolving national requirements and standards for enforcement of patent claims pursuant to SPCs. As a result of these factors, we are unable to predict the extent of protection afforded by our SPCs. We do not anticipate continuing to receive royalties on MedImmune’s sales of Synagis until resolution of our lawsuit with them and, depending on the outcome of that lawsuit, may have to repay previously received royalties. MedImmune has filed a lawsuit seeking a declaratory judgment that the U.S. Queen et al. patents are invalid, that Synagis and motavizumab do not infringe such patents and therefore no royalties are owed on the Synagis product or motavizumab development product. MedImmune has also asserted that it is entitled to pay a lower royalty rate or no royalty under the most favored licensee clause in our agreement because of other license agreements between the Company and third parties. We have canceled the license agreement because we believe that MedImmune breached the license agreement by failing to pay all royalties due and effectively blocking our contractual right to audit MedImmune’s sales. As a result, we have amended our pleadings in the lawsuit to allege that MedImmune has breached the contract and to request contract damages. Our Amended Pleadings also allege that, as a result of cancelation of the license agreement, sales of Synagis constitute patent infringement and we have requested an injunction against further infringement and treble damages. In the event that MedImmune prevails on the claims in its complaint, we expect that MedImmune will request the court to order a recoupment of payments made to PDL which represent obligations under its license to the Queen et al. patents that have accrued since the date of their claim in December 2008. MedImmune requested that the court order that its February 2010 payment be made to an escrow account pendente lite (while the litigation is pending) and an account was created for this purpose. We may not receive additional payments from MedImmune unless and until the lawsuit is resolved in our favor. In addition, if MedImmune is successful in showing that it has made payments to PDL in excess of its license obligations, we expect that MedImmune will request the court to order recoupment of such excess payments. In the event that we prevail on our claims of patent infringement and breach of the license agreement, we will request that MedImmune pay damages for breach of the license, pay treble damages for patent infringement and either desist further infringement or pay royalties at a rate to be determined. See “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” We must protect our patent and other intellectual property rights to succeed. Our success is dependent in significant part on our ability to protect the scope, validity and enforceability of our patents. The scope, validity, enforceability and effective term of patents can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal and factual questions and proceedings. When our patents are challenged, they may be invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable by the adjudicating tribunal. A finding that some or all of our patent rights are invalid or unenforceable in such a proceeding may have a material impact on our ability to continue to collect royalty payments from our licensees or conclude new royalty generating license agreements. Similarly, a finding narrowing the scope of some or all of our patent rights could likewise have a material impact on our ability to continue to collect royalty payments from our licensees or conclude new license agreements. 9 Table of Contents U.S. patents and patent applications may also be subject to interference proceedings and to reexamination or reissue proceedings in the PTO and foreign patents may be subject to opposition or nullification or similar proceedings in the various national and regional patent offices in which we have applied for and received patent rights and/or SPCs. Any of these proceedings could result in either loss of the patent or loss or reduction in the scope of one or more of the claims of the patent. These proceedings could be expensive, last several years and result in a significant reduction in the scope or invalidation of our patents. Any limitation in claim scope could reduce our ability to collect royalties or commence enforcement proceedings based on these patents. Moreover, the scope of a patent in one country does not assure similar scope of a patent with similar claims in another country. Also, claim interpretation and infringement laws vary among countries. As a result of these factors, we are unable to predict the extent of patent protection in any country. See “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” We derive a significant portion of our royalty revenues from Genentech and our future success depends on continued market acceptance of their products and approval of their licensed products that are in development. Our revenues consist almost entirely of royalties from licensees of our Queen et al. patents and, in future periods, we may receive milestone payments if the licensed products in development achieve certain development milestones and royalty payments if the licensed products receive marketing approval before the expiration of our Queen et al. patents. Genentech accounted for 71%, 73% and 79% of our revenues from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our future success depends primarily upon the continued market acceptance of Genentech and other licensee’s commercialized products and the performance by our licensees of their obligations under the applicable license agreements. In addition, our ability to generate royalty revenue depends upon the ability of Genentech and our other licensees to develop, introduce and deliver products that achieve and sustain market acceptance. For example, 60% of the royalties we currently receive from Genentech are dedicated to service the debt related to the QHP Notes that we, through our wholly-owned subsidiary, QHP, issued in November 2009. We have no control over the sales efforts of Genentech and our other licensees, and our licensees might not be successful. Reductions in the sales volume or average selling price of licensed products could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our licensees may be unable to maintain regulatory approvals for currently licensed products or obtain regulatory approvals for new products. Safety issues could also result in the failure to maintain regulatory approvals or decrease revenues. Our licensees are subject to stringent regulation with respect to product safety and efficacy by various international, federal, state and local authorities. Of particular significance are the FDA’s requirements covering research and development, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling and promotion of drugs for human use in the United States. As a result of these requirements, the length of time, the level of expenditures and the laboratory and clinical information required for approval of a biologic license application or new drug application are substantial and can require a number of years. In addition, even if our licensees’ products receive regulatory approval, they remain subject to ongoing FDA and other international regulations including, but not limited to, obligations to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing, changes to the product label, new or revised regulatory requirements for manufacturing practices, written advisements to physicians and/or a product recall or withdrawal. Our licensees may not maintain necessary regulatory approvals for their existing licensed products or our licensees may not obtain necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all, for any of the licensed products our licensees are developing or manufacturing. The occurrence of adverse events reported by any licensee may result in the revocation of regulatory approvals or decreased sales of the applicable product due to a change in physicians’ willingness to prescribe, or patients’ willingness to use the applicable product. In either case, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents For example, in February 2005, Elan and Biogen Idec Inc. (Biogen Idec) announced that they had voluntarily suspended the marketing and commercial distribution of Tysabri, a drug approved for the treatment of multiple sclerosis that is licensed under Queen et al. patents, because of the occurrence of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), a rare and frequently fatal, demyelinating disease of the central nervous system, in certain patients treated with Tysabri. In July 2006, Elan and Biogen Idec reintroduced Tysabri; however, Tysabri’s label now includes prominent warnings regarding the Tysabri’s risks and Elan and Biogen Idec have implemented a risk management program to inform physicians and patients of the benefits and risks of Tysabri and to minimize the risk of PML potentially associated with Tysabri. Regulatory authorities worldwide continue to monitor the safety and efficacy of Tysabri. If physicians prescribe Tysabri less frequently due to the PML risk, or if Elan and Biogen Idec or various regulatory authorities suspend the marketing of Tysabri, the amount of royalties we receive will be adversely affected. Another example is Raptiva, Genentech’s product for the treatment for psoriasis for which marketing approval was suspended in Europe and in Canada in February 2009 and was then withdrawn from the worldwide market due to safety concerns. We no longer receive royalties on sales of Raptiva. In addition, the current regulatory framework could change or additional regulations could arise at any stage during our licensees’ product development or marketing which may affect our licensees’ ability to obtain or maintain approval of their licensed products. Delays in our licensees receiving regulatory approval for licensed products or their failure to maintain existing regulatory approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our licensees face competition. Our licensees face competition from other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. The introduction of new competitive products or follow-on biologics may result in lost market share for our licensees, reduced utilization of licensed products, lower prices and/or reduced licensed product sales, any of which could reduce our royalty revenue and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our revenues and operating results will likely fluctuate in future periods. Our royalty revenues may be unpredictable and fluctuate because they depend upon, among other things, the seasonality and rate of growth of sales of licensed products as well as the mix of U.S.-based Sales and ex-U.S.-based Manufacturing and Sales in connection with our master patent license agreement with Genentech. The Genentech agreement provides for a tiered royalty structure under which the royalty rate Genentech must pay on the U.S.-based Sales in a given calendar year decreases on incremental U.S.-based Sales above certain net sales thresholds. As a result of the tiered royalty structure, Genentech’s average annual royalty rate for a given year declines as Genentech’s U.S.-based Sales increase during that year. Because we receive royalties one quarter in arrears, the average royalty rate for the payments we receive from Genentech in the second calendar quarter—which would be for Genentech’s sales from the first calendar quarter—has been and is expected to continue to be higher than the average royalty rate for following quarters. The average royalty rate for payments we receive from Genentech is generally lowest in the fourth quarter and first calendar quarter of the following year, which would be for Genentech’s sales from the third and fourth calendar quarter, when Genentech’s U.S.-based Sales bear royalties at the lowest royalty rate. With respect to the ex-U.S.-based Manufacturing and Sales, the royalty rate that we receive from Genentech is a fixed rate of 3.0% based on a percentage of the underlying ex-U.S.-based Manufacturing and Sales. The mix of U.S.-based Sales and ex-U.S.-based Manufacturing and Sales has fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate in future periods, particularly in light of the 2009 acquisition of Genentech by Roche. For example, in July 2009 Roche announced its decision to partially close its manufacturing site in Vacaville, California. Approximately 13% of our royalty revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 are from sales of Synagis, which is marketed by MedImmune. This product has significantly higher sales in the fall and winter, which to date have resulted in much higher royalties paid to us in our first and second quarters than in other quarters. It is 11 Table of Contents not known if we will continue to receive royalties on sales of Synagis in 2010 and, if we do so, the seasonality of Synagis sales may continue to contribute to fluctuation in our revenues from quarter to quarter. See “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” We intend to reserve from time to time a certain amount of cash in order to satisfy the obligations relating to our convertible notes, which could adversely affect the amount or timing of distributions to our stockholders. As of December 31, 2009, we had $228 million in principal that remains outstanding under our 2.00% Convertible Senior Notes due February 15, 2012 (the 2012 Notes) and $200 million in principal that remains outstanding under our unsecured 2.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2023 (the 2023 Notes). The 2012 Notes are our senior unsecured debt and have been redeemable by us in whole or in part since February 19, 2010 at 100.57% of principal amount if redeemed between February 19, 2010 and February 14, 2011 and at 100.29% of principal amount if redeemed between February 15, 2011 and the maturity date. The 2023 Notes may be redeemed at our option, in whole or in part, at par value. Holders of the 2023 Notes may require us to repurchase all or a portion of their 2023 Notes at 100% of their principal amount plus any unpaid interest for cash on August 16, 2010 and for cash, or, at our option, shares of our common stock at the then-current conversion price on August 16, 2013 and August 16, 2018. Holders of the 2023 Notes may also require us to repurchase all or a portion of the notes cash upon the occurrence of a repurchase event in which a change in control has occurred or our common stock is neither listed on a U.S. national securities exchange nor approved for trading over-the-counter. Similarly, holders of the 2012 Notes may require us to purchase all or any portion of their 2012 Notes at 100% of their principal amount, plus any unpaid interest, upon a fundamental change resulting in the reclassification, conversion, exchange or cancellation of common stock. Such repurchase event or fundamental change is generally defined to include a merger involving PDL, an acquisition of a majority of PDL’s outstanding common stock, and the change of a majority of PDL’s board of directors without the approval of the board of directors. We intend to reserve from time to time a certain amount of cash in order to satisfy these repurchase or other obligations relating to the 2023 Notes and 2012 Notes which could adversely affect the amount or timing of any distribution to our stockholders. We may continue to redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire one or both series of convertible notes in the open market in the future either which could adversely affect the amount or timing of any cash distribution to our stockholders. If any or all of the 2023 Notes or 2012 Notes are not converted into shares of our common stock before their respective maturity dates, we will have to pay the holders of such notes the full aggregate principal amount of the 2023 Notes or 2012 Notes, respectively, then outstanding. Any of the above payments could have a material adverse effect on our cash position. If we fail to satisfy these repurchase or other obligations, it may result in a default under the indenture which could result in a default under certain of our other debt instruments, if any. The conversion of any of the 2023 Notes or 2012 Notes into shares of our common stock would have a dilutive effect which could cause our stock price to go down. The 2023 Notes and 2012 Notes are currently convertible at any time, at the option of the holder, into shares of our common stock. We have reserved shares of our authorized common stock for issuance upon conversion of the 2023 Notes and 2012 Notes. If any or all of the 2023 Notes or 2012 Notes are converted into shares of our common stock, our existing stockholders will experience immediate dilution and our common stock price may be subject to downward pressure. In connection with the cash dividend paid on December 15, 2009 to stockholders of record on December 1, 2009, the conversion rates of the 2023 Notes and 2012 Notes were adjusted upward. The conversion rate for the 2023 Notes, as adjusted, is 164.7254 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount or $6.07 per share of common stock. The conversion rate for the 2023 Notes was previously 131.0339 shares of common stock per 12 Table of Contents $1,000 principal amount of the 2023 Notes. The conversion rate for the 2012 Notes, as adjusted, is 119.294 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount or $8.38 per share of common stock. The conversion rate for the 2012 Notes was previously 94.447 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the 2012 Notes. Because the conversion rates of the 2023 Notes and 2012 Notes adjust upward upon the occurrence of certain events, such as a dividend payment, our existing stockholders will experience more dilution if any or all of the 2023 Notes or 2012 Notes are converted into shares of our common stock after the adjusted conversion rates became effective. Our common stock may lose value due to several factors, including the expiration of our Queen et al. patents, the payment of dividends or distributions to our stockholders and failure to meet analyst expectations, and our common stock could be delisted from NASDAQ. Our revenues consist almost entirely of royalties from licensees of our Queen et al. patents which expire in 2013 and 2014. Unless we develop other revenue streams, we will no longer receive patent-related royalties once our licensees have sold all their inventory of licensed product that was manufactured before the expiration of the Queen et al. patents. As a result, our common stock will likely lose value. If we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, or if adverse conditions prevail or are perceived to prevail with respect to our business, the price of the common stock would likely drop significantly. In addition to all of the risk factors listed herein, the payment of dividends or distributions to our stockholders may reduce the price of our common stock. If the price of our common stock were to fall below NASDAQ listing standards as we approach the date of patent expiration, our common stock may be delisted. If our common stock were delisted, market liquidity for our common stock could be severely affected, and our stockholders’ ability to sell securities in the secondary market could be limited. Delisting from NASDAQ would negatively affect the value of our common stock. Delisting could also have other negative results, including, but not limited to, the potential loss of confidence by employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. Changes in the third-party reimbursement environment may affect product sales from which we generate royalty revenues. Sales of products from which we generate royalties will depend significantly on the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatments will be available to physicians and patients from various levels of U.S. and international government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Third-party payers and government health administration authorities increasingly attempt to limit and/or regulate the reimbursement of medical products and services, including branded prescription drugs. Changes in government legislation or regulation, such as the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003; the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005; the Medicare, Medicaid and State Children’s Health Insurance Program Extension Act of 2007; the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2009; changes in formulary or compendia listing; or changes in private third-party payers’ policies toward reimbursement for such products may reduce reimbursement of the cost of such products to physicians, pharmacies and distributors. Decreases in third-party reimbursement could reduce usage of such products, sales to collaborators and may have a material adverse effect on our royalties which depend on such product sales. In addition, macroeconomic factors may affect the ability of patients to pay or co-pay for costs or otherwise pay for products from which we generate royalties by, for example, decreasing the number of patients covered by insurance policies or increasing costs associated with such policies. We must attract, retain and integrate key employees in order to succeed. It may be difficult to recruit, retain and integrate key employees. To be successful, we must attract, retain and integrate qualified personnel. Our business is managing our antibody humanization patents and royalties assets which requires only a small number of employees. It may be 13 Table of Contents difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified personnel. If we are unsuccessful in attracting, retaining and integrating qualified personnel, our business could be impaired. Our agreements with Facet may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arm’s-length negotiations between unaffiliated third parties. The agreements associated with the spin-off of Facet in December 2008, including the Separation and Distribution Agreement, Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement, Transition Services Agreement and Cross License Agreement, were negotiated in the context of the Spin-Off while Facet was still part of PDL and, accordingly, may not reflect more favorable terms that may have resulted from arm’s-length negotiations between unaffiliated third parties. We may have obligations for which we may not be able to collect under our indemnification rights from Facet. Under the terms of the separation and distribution agreement with Facet, we and Facet agreed to indemnify the other from and after the Spin-Off with respect to certain indebtedness, liabilities and obligations that were retained by our respective companies. These indemnification obligations could be significant. The ability to satisfy these indemnities, if called upon to do so, will depend upon the future financial strength of each of our companies. We cannot assure you that, if Facet has to indemnify us for any substantial obligations, Facet will have the ability to satisfy those obligations. If Facet does not have the ability to satisfy those obligations, we may be required to satisfy those obligations instead. For example, in connection with the Spin-Off, we entered into amendments to the leases for the facilities in Redwood City, California, which formerly served as our corporate headquarters and which are now occupied by Facet under which Facet was added as a co-tenant under the leases and a Co-Tenancy Agreement under which Facet agreed to indemnify us for all matters related to the leases attributable to the period after the Spin-Off date. Should Facet default under its lease obligations, we would be held liable by the landlord as a co-tenant and, thus, we have in substance guaranteed the payments under the lease agreements for the Redwood City facilities, the disposition of which could have a material adverse effect on the amount or timing of any distribution to our stockholders. As of December 31, 2009, the total lease payments for the duration of the guarantee, which runs through December 2021, are approximately $130.8 million. We would also be responsible for lease related payments including utilities, property taxes and common area maintenance which may be as much as the actual lease payments. See “Item 2—Properties.” We must evaluate the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting on a periodic basis and publicly disclose the results of these evaluations and related matters. Our management is required to periodically evaluate the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting and our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year. We are also required to disclose in our periodic reports with the SEC any changes in our internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation. Compliance with these rules has resulted in increased expenses and the devotion of management resources. Our evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures may reveal material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we identify a material weakness, we would be required to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is ineffective and disclose this conclusion which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. For example, we disclosed we had material weaknesses in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the periods ended June 30, 2007, September 30, 2007, March 31, 2008 and June 30, 2008, and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 which we believe have been remediated. 14 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 