ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business and future operating results may be affected by many risks, uncertainties and other factors, including those set forth below and those contained elsewhere in this report. However, the risks, uncertainties and other factors described in this report are not the only ones we face. There may be additional risks, uncertainties and other factors that we do not currently consider material or that are not presently known to us. If any of the following risks were to occur, our business, affairs, assets, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. When we say that something could have a material adverse effect on us or on our business, we mean that it could have one or more of these effects. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY WE HAVE A HISTORY OF LOSSES, AND, DESPITE OUR RECENT PROFITABILITY, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO REMAIN PROFITABLE IN THE FUTURE. Although we recorded net income of $2,334,000 in fiscal 2005, we had incurred net losses in almost all of our prior years of operations. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $56.2 million. Accordingly, notwithstanding our recent profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase that profitability in the future. Moreover, as a result of our intended future growth and expansion of our businesses, products and services, we may incur expenses in future periods, including significant costs in developing and expanding the core distributed generation business of PowerSecure and the three new businesses of PowerSecure, as well as the telemetry business of Metretek Florida, that exceed our revenues. If our future revenues do not meet our expectations, or if our operating expenses exceed what we anticipate and cannot be reduced below our revenues, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. FROM TIME TO TIME WE DEPEND ON REVENUES FROM SIGNIFICANT PURCHASE COMMITMENTS, AND ANY LOSS, CANCELLATION, REDUCTION OR DELAY IN THESE LARGE PURCHASE COMMITMENTS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS. From time to time, our subsidiaries have derived a material portion of their revenues from one or more significant customers or large purchase commitments. For example, PowerSecure has recently received the largest purchase orders in our history from one large customer. See "Item 1. Business-Recent Developments" above. There is no assurance PowerSecure will receive any future orders from this customer. From time to time, PowerSecure receives other significant, non-recurring purchase orders from customers. In fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2005, we had one customer that was responsible for approximately 15% of our consolidated revenues. If such commitments were to be terminated or fail to recur, our revenues and net income would significantly decline. Our success will depend on our continued ability to develop new relationships and manage existing relationships with significant customers and generate recurring revenues from them. We cannot be sure that we will be able to retain our largest current customers, that we will be able to attract additional large customers in the future, or that our existing customers will continue to purchase our products and services in the same amounts as in prior years. Our business and operating results would be adversely affected by: - the loss of one or more large customers; - any cancellation of orders (including verbal orders) by, or any reduction or delay in sales to, these customers; - the failure of large purchase commitments to be renewed or to recur; - our inability to successfully develop relationships with additional customers; or - future price concessions that we may have to make to these customers. WE DO NOT HAVE LONG-TERM OR RECURRING COMMITMENTS WITH MOST OF OUR CUSTOMERS AND MAY BE UNABLE TO RETAIN EXISTING CUSTOMERS, ATTRACT NEW CUSTOMERS OR REPLACE DEPARTING CUSTOMERS WITH NEW CUSTOMERS THAT CAN PROVIDE COMPARABLE REVENUES. Because we generally do not obtain firm, long-term volume purchase commitments from our customers, many of our contracts and commitments from our customers are short-term or non-recurring. For example, most of PowerSecure's revenues are derived on a non-recurring, project by project basis, and there is no assurance that its revenues and business will continue to grow. In addition, customer orders can be canceled or rescheduled and volume levels can be reduced. We cannot assure you that our customers will continue to use our products and 16 services or that we will be able to replace, in a timely or effective manner, canceled, delayed or reduced orders with new business that generates comparable revenues. Further, we cannot assure you that our current customers will continue to generate consistent amounts of revenues over time. Our failure to maintain and expand our customer relationships customers would materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. WE MAY REQUIRE A SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT OF ADDITIONAL FUNDS TO FINANCE OUR CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS AND THE GROWTH OF OUR BUSINESS, BUT WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RAISE A SUFFICIENT AMOUNT OF FUNDS TO DO SO ON TERMS FAVORABLE TO US AND OUR STOCKHOLDERS OR AT ALL. We may need to obtain additional capital to fund our capital obligations and to finance the development and expansion of our businesses. For example, we will need substantial additional capital to finance the development and growth of the core and new businesses of PowerSecure and of Metretek Florida's telemetry business. Further, under the settlement agreement in connection with a class action lawsuit, we are required to make payments on a promissory note in the annual amount of $750,000 plus interest through June 30, 2008. In addition, from time to time as part of our business plan, we engage in discussions regarding potential acquisitions of businesses and technologies. While our ability to finance future acquisitions will probably depend on or ability to raise additional capital, as of the date of this report, we have not entered into any agreement committing us to any such acquisition. Moreover, unanticipated events, over which we have no control, could increase our operating costs or decrease our ability to generate revenues from product and service sales, necessitating additional capital. We continually evaluate our cash flow requirements as well as our opportunity to raise additional capital in order to improve our financial position. In addition, we continually evaluate opportunities to improve our credit facilities, through increased credit availability, lower debt costs or other more favorable terms. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to raise additional capital or replace our current credit facilities when needed or desired, or that the terms of any such financing will be favorable to us and our stockholders. We entered into a new credit facility in September 2005, under which we have a maximum credit facility of $4.5 million. The credit facility matures in September 2007. Our ability to borrow funds under the credit facility is limited to our loan availability based upon certain assets of our subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2005, our loan availability under the credit facility was $4,500,000, of which approximately $1,314,000 had been borrowed, leaving $3,186,000 available for future use. The amount of our loan availability, as well as the amount borrowed under the credit facility, will change in the future depending on our asset base, our liquidity and our capital requirements. Our credit facility has a number of financial covenants that our subsidiaries must satisfy. Our ability to satisfy those covenants depends principally upon our ability to achieve positive operating performance. If any of our borrowing subsidiaries is unable to fully satisfy the financial covenants of the credit facility, it will breach the terms of the credit facility. Our obligations under the credit facility are secured by a first priority security interest in substantially all of the assets of our subsidiaries, and by guarantees by us and our subsidiaries. Any breach of the covenants in the credit facility could result in a default under the credit facility and an acceleration of payment of all outstanding debt owed, which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition. We may seek to raise any needed or desired additional capital from the proceeds of public or private equity or debt offerings at the Metretek Technologies level or at the subsidiary level or both, through asset or business sales, from traditional credit financings or from other financing sources. Our ability to obtain additional capital when needed or desired will depend on many factors, including general market conditions, our operating performance and investor sentiment, and thus cannot be assured. In addition, depending on how it is structured, raising capital could require the consent of our lender. Even if we are able to raise additional capital, the terms of any financing could be adverse to the interests of our stockholders. For example, the terms of debt financing could include covenants that restrict our ability to operate our business or to expand our operations, while the terms of an equity financing, involving the issuance of capital stock or of securities convertible into capital stock, could dilute the percentage ownership interests of our stockholders, and the new capital stock or other new securities could have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our current stockholders. We cannot assure you that sufficient additional funds will be available to us when needed or desired or that, if available, such funds can be obtained on terms favorable to us and our stockholders and acceptable to our lender, if its consent is required. Our inability to obtain sufficient additional capital on a timely basis on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE ARE SUBJECT TO LAWSUITS, CLAIMS AND PROCEEDINGS FROM TIME TO TIME, AND IF IN THE FUTURE WE BECOME SUBJECT TO NEW LAWSUITS, AND IF ANY OF THOSE LAWSUITS ARE MATERIAL AND ARE SUCCESSFULLY PROSECUTED AGAINST 17 US, OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECTED. We are subject to lawsuits, claims and other proceedings from time to time, and we have been subject to lawsuits in the past that have had a material impact on us. In addition, one significant lawsuit in which we are involved is still pending. Our current proceedings are described in "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." In the future, we may become involved in other lawsuits, claims and proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. We cannot provide any assurance that any such litigation, claims or proceedings could not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. OUR FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS ARE DIFFICULT TO PROJECT AND HAVE FLUCTUATED SIGNIFICANTLY IN THE PAST, AND FLUCTUATIONS IN THE FUTURE MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Our operating results have fluctuated significantly from quarter-to-quarter, period-to-period and year-to-year in the past and are expected to continue to fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause the trading price of our common stock to fluctuate. These factors include, without limitation, the following: - the size, timing and terms of sales and orders, including large customer orders, such as the recent significant orders at PowerSecure, and the effects of customers delaying, deferring or canceling purchase orders or making smaller purchases than expected; - the effects of hurricanes and other weather conditions on the needs and demand requirements of our customers; - our ability to obtain adequate supplies of key components and materials for our products on a timely and cost-effective basis; - our ability to implement our business plans and strategies and the timing of such implementation; - the pace of development of our new businesses, including the new PowerSecure businesses, and the growth of their markets; - the timing, pricing and market acceptance of our new products and services such as Metretek Florida's new telemetry offerings; - changes in our pricing policies and those of our competitors; - variations in the length of our product and service implementation process; - changes in the mix of products and services having differing margins; - changes in the mix of international and domestic revenues; - the life cycles of our products and services; - budgeting cycles of utilities and other major customers; - general economic and political conditions; - the resolution of pending and any future litigation and claims; - economic conditions in the energy industry, especially in the natural gas and electricity sectors; - the effects of governmental regulations and regulatory changes in our markets; - changes in the prices charged by our suppliers; - our ability to make and obtain the expected benefits from acquisitions of technology or businesses, and the costs related to such acquisitions; - changes in our operating expenses; and - the development and maintenance of business relationships with strategic partners. Because we have little or no control over most of these factors, our operating results are difficult to predict. Any substantial adverse change in any of these factors could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Our revenues and other operating results are heavily dependant upon the volume and timing of customer orders and payments and the date of product delivery. The timing of large individual sales is difficult for us to 18 predict. Because our operating expenses are based on anticipated revenues and because a high percentage of these are relatively fixed, a shortfall or delay in recognizing revenue could cause our operating results to vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and could result in significant operating losses in any particular quarter. If our revenues fall below our expectations in any particular quarter, we may not be able to reduce our expenses rapidly in response to the shortfall, which could result in us suffering significant operating losses in that quarter. Due to these factors and the other risks discussed in this prospectus, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter, period-to-period or year-to-year comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. Quarterly, period and annual comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful or indicative of future performance. It is possible that in some future periods our results of operations may fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, causing the trading price of our common stock to decline. SEVERE, ADVERSE WEATHER CONDITIONS, SUCH AS HURRICANES, CAN CAUSE A SEVERE DISRUPTION IN THE BUSINESS OF SOUTHERN FLOW BY SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCING THE SHORT AND MID-TERM DEMAND REQUIREMENTS OF ITS CUSTOMERS. Southern Flow's business is in large part dependent upon the business of large oil and gas producers. Severe, adverse weather conditions, such as hurricanes, can cause serious disruptions in the production activities of those customers, which in turns reduces their demand for Southern Flow's services. While such production reductions tend to be temporary and after time return to normal levels, the disruption causes Southern Flow to lose business that is generally not replaceable. This loss of business results in a loss of revenues for Southern Flow, but since Southern Flow's expenses tend to be fixed, at least in the short term, these short-term losses of revenues have a significant effect on Southern Flow's net income, and thus a material adverse impact on our revenues, financial condition and results of operations. BECAUSE SOME OF OUR BUSINESS AND PRODUCT OFFERINGS HAVE LIMITED HISTORIES AND THEIR BUSINESS STRATEGIES ARE STILL BEING DEVELOPED AND ARE UNPROVEN, LIMITED INFORMATION IS AVAILABLE TO EVALUATE THEIR FUTURE PROSPECTS. Our business strategy includes the development and expansion of new businesses and product lines from time to time, including PowerSecure's new engineering services, management consulting and energy efficiency businesses and Metretek Florida's telemetry business. Our plans and strategies with respect to these new businesses are often based on unproven models and must be developed and modified. Our future success depends in large part upon our ability to develop these new businesses so that they will generate significant revenues, profits and cash flow. As a company developing new businesses in the rapidly evolving energy and technology markets, we face numerous risks and uncertainties which are described in this Item as well as other parts of this Report. Some of these risks relate to our ability to: - anticipate and adapt to the changing regulatory climate for energy and technology products, services and technology; - attract customers to our new businesses; - anticipate and adapt to the changing energy markets and end-user preferences; - attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; - respond to actions taken by our competitors; - integrate acquired businesses, technologies, products and services; - generate revenues, gross margins, cash flow and profits from sales of new products and services; and - implement an effective marketing strategy to promote awareness of our new businesses, products and services. Our business and financial results in the future will depend heavily on the market acceptance and profitability of our new businesses and these new product and service offerings lines. If we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks or in executing our business strategies, or if our business model fails or is invalid, then our business would be materially and adversely affected. 19 RESTRICTIONS IMPOSED ON US BY THE TERMS OF OUR CURRENT CREDIT FACILITY AND THE CLASS ACTION SETTLEMENT COULD LIMIT HOW WE CONDUCT OUR BUSINESS AND OUR ABILITY TO RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL. The terms of our current credit facility and the class action settlement contain financial and operating covenants that place restrictions on our activities and limit the discretion of our management. These covenants place significant restrictions on our ability to: - incur additional indebtedness; - create liens or other encumbrances; - issue or redeem our securities; - make dividend payments and investments; - amend our charter documents; - sell or otherwise dispose of our or our subsidiaries' stock or assets; - liquidate or dissolve; - merge or consolidate with other companies; or - reorganize, recapitalize or engage in a similar business transaction. Any future financing arrangements will likely contain similar or more restrictive covenants. As a result of these restrictions, we may be: - limited in how we conduct our business; - unable to raise additional capital, through debt or equity financings, when needed for our operations and growth; and - unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. If a default in our credit facility is declared and not waived or cured, then the entire indebtedness then owed under the credit facility could be accelerated, and we may not be able to repay it. In addition, if the credit facility matures and is not renewed, we may not be able to obtain successor financing on acceptable terms. The need to comply with the terms of our debt obligations may also limit our ability to obtain additional financing and our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business. If as a result of these covenants, we are unable to pursue a favorable transaction or course of action or to respond to an unfavorable event, condition or circumstance, then our business could be materially and adversely affected. OUR DEPENDENCE ON THIRD PARTY PARTNERS AND SUPPLIERS, INCLUDING SOLE SOURCE SUPPLIERS, MAY PREVENT US FROM DELIVERING ACCEPTABLE PRODUCTS OR PERFORMING ACCEPTABLE SERVICES ON A TIMELY BASIS. We rely on single source suppliers and highly in demand parts for some of the critical components we use in our products. Our business is dependent on our ability to anticipate our needs for components and products and our suppliers' ability to deliver such components and products in time to meet critical manufacturing and installation schedules. Our business could be adversely affected, for example, if PowerSecure is unable to obtain, on a timely and cost-efficient basis, sufficient generators to meet its customers' installation schedules. In addition, our business could be adversely affected if we experience supply constraints or if we experience any other interruption or delay in the supply chain which interfere with our ability to manufacture our products or manage our inventory levels. OUR POWERSECURE BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO MANY BUSINESS RISKS, INCLUDING THE RISK OF CHANGES IN TARIFF STRUCTURES AND IN ENVIRONMENTAL REQUIREMENTS, AND IF ANY OF THESE RISKS MATERIALIZE, THEY COULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT POWERSECURE'S BUSINESS AS WELL AS OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. PowerSecure's business is dependent, in part, upon its ability to utilize distributed generation to create favorable pricing for customers based on existing tariff structures. If utility tariffs change in some regions, then PowerSecure's business would become less viable in those regions. Moreover, even if such tariffs do not change, if PowerSecure is unable to obtain the expected benefits from those tariffs, its shared savings projects, that are dependent upon such benefits, would be materially and adversely affected. Also, PowerSecure presently utilizes diesel powered generators in its systems. If regulatory requirements in its business regions are modified to either 20 effectively ban diesel or to make diesel no longer commercially viable in those regions, then PowerSecure's business would be materially and adversely affected. While PowerSecure, in such case, would utilize its efforts to find alternative power sources, there is no assurance those alternative sources would be economically acceptable. SOME OF POWERSECURE'S LONG-TERM TURN-KEY CONTRACTS SUBJECT US TO RISKS. Some of PowerSecure's contracts for turn-key distributed generation projects have a term of many years, during which time some risks to its business may arise due to its obligations under those contracts. For example, PowerSecure is responsible for full maintenance on the generators and switchgear during the term of the contract. The reserves it has set aside may not be sufficient to cover its maintenance obligations, and the maintenance packages it purchased designed to cover maintenance on the generators may not be adequate. In addition, changes in circumstances that were not contemplated at the time of the contract could exposure PowerSecure to unanticipated risks or to protracted or costly dispute resolution. WE DEPEND ON SOLE SOURCE OR LIMITED SOURCE SUPPLIERS FOR SOME OF THE KEY COMPONENTS AND MATERIALS IN OUR PRODUCTS, WHICH MAKES US SUSCEPTIBLE TO SUPPLY SHORTAGES OR PRICE INCREASES THAT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. We depend on sole or limited source suppliers for key components and materials for some of our products such as generators, and if we are unable to obtain these components on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver our products to customers. Also, we cannot guarantee that any of the parts or components that we purchase, if available at all, will be of adequate quality or that the prices we pay for these parts or components will not increase. For example, PowerSecure is dependent upon on obtaining a timely and cost-effective supply of generators for its distributed generation system, and from time to time these generators are in short supply, affecting the timing and cost of the generators. We may experience delays in production if the supply of any critical components is interrupted or reduced and we have failed to identify an alternative vendor or if there is a significant increase in the cost of such components, which could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. WE EXTEND PRODUCT WARRANTIES WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. We provide a standard one-year warranty for hardware product sales and distributed generation equipment. In addition, we offer extended warranty terms on our distributed generation turn-key projects as well as certain hardware products. We reserve for the estimated cost of product warranties when revenue is recognized, and we evaluate our reserve periodically by comparing our warranty repair experience by product. While we engage in product quality programs and processes, including monitoring and evaluating the quality of our components suppliers and development of methods to remotely detect and correct failures, our warranty obligation is affected by actual product failure rates, parts and equipment costs and service labor costs incurred in correcting a product failure. In addition, our operating history in the distributed generation market is limited. If actual product failure rates, parts and equipment costs, or service labor costs exceed our estimates, our operating results could be adversely impacted. BECAUSE WE ARE DEPENDENT UPON THE UTILITY INDUSTRY FOR A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR REVENUE, CONTINUED REDUCTIONS OF PURCHASES OF OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES BY UTILITIES CAUSED BY REGULATORY REFORM MAY MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. We currently derive a significant portion of our revenue from sales by Metretek Florida of its products and services to the utility industry, and particularly the natural gas utility industry. A key reason that we have experienced variability of operating results on both an annual and quarterly basis has been utility purchasing patterns, including delays of purchasing decisions, as the result of mergers and acquisitions in the utility industry and potential changes to the federal and state regulatory framework within which the utility industry operates. The utility industry is generally characterized by long budgeting, purchasing and regulatory process cycles that can take up to several years to complete. Our utility customers typically issue requests for quotes and proposals, establish committees to evaluate the purchase proposals, review different technical options with vendors, analyze performance and cost/benefit justifications and perform a regulatory review, in addition to applying a normal budget approval process within the utility. In addition, utilities may defer purchases of our products and services if the utilities reduce capital expenditures as the result of mergers and acquisitions, pending or unfavorable regulatory decisions, poor revenues due to weather conditions, rising interest rates or general economic downturns, among other factors. The natural gas utility industry has been virtually the sole market for Metretek Florida's products and services. However, over the last few years, the uncertainty in the utility industry that has resulted from the regulatory uncertainty in the current era of deregulation has caused utilities to defer even further purchases of Metretek Florida's products and services. The continuation of this uncertain regulatory climate will materially and adversely affect our revenues. The domestic utility industry is currently the focus of regulatory reform initiatives in virtually every state. These initiatives have resulted in significant uncertainty for industry participants and raise concerns regarding assets that would not be considered for recovery through rate payer charges. This regulatory climate has caused many utilities to delay purchasing decisions that involve significant capital commitments. As a result of these purchasing decision delays, utilities have reduced their purchases of our products and services. While we expect some states will act on these regulatory reform initiatives in the near future, we cannot assure you that the current regulatory uncertainty will be resolved in the short term. In addition, new regulatory initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, in part as a result of the competitive pressures in the utility industry arising from the regulatory reform process, many utilities are pursuing merger and acquisition strategies. We have experienced considerable delays in purchase decisions by utilities that have become parties to merger or acquisition transactions. 21 Typically, capital expenditure purchase decisions are put on hold indefinitely when merger negotiations begin. If this pattern of merger and acquisition activity among utilities continues, our business may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if any of the utilities that account for a significant portion of our revenues decide to significantly reduce their purchases of our products and services, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. MANY OF OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES EXPERIENCE LONG AND VARIABLE SALES CYCLES, WHICH COULD HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR ANY GIVEN QUARTER OR YEAR. Our products and services are often used by our customers to address critical business needs. Customers generally consider a wide range of issues before making a decision to purchase our products and services. In addition, the purchase of some of our products and services involves a significant commitment of capital and other resources by a customer. This commitment often requires significant technical review, assessment of competitive products and approval at a number of management levels within a customer's organization. Our sales cycle may vary based on the industry in which the potential customer operates and is difficult to predict for any particular transaction. The length and variability of our sales cycle makes it difficult to predict whether particular sales will be concluded in any given quarter. While our customers are evaluating our products and services before they place an order with us, we may incur substantial sales and marketing and research and development expenses to customize our products to the customer's needs. We may also expend significant management efforts, increase manufacturing capacity and order long-lead-time components or materials prior to receiving an order. Even after this evaluation process, a potential customer may not purchase our products. As a result, these long sales cycles may cause us to incur significant expenses without ever receiving revenue to offset those expenses. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO DEVELOP NEW AND ENHANCED PRODUCTS AND SERVICES THAT ACHIEVE MARKET ACCEPTANCE IN A TIMELY MANNER, OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND COMPETITIVE POSITION COULD BE HARMED. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new and enhanced products and services that achieve market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner. The development of technology is often complex, and we occasionally have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products and services and enhancements thereof. Successful development and market acceptance of our products and services depends on a number of factors, including: - the changing requirements of customers; - the accurate prediction of market requirements; - the timely completion and introduction of new products and services; - the quality, price and performance of new products and services; - the availability, quality, price and performance of competing products, services and technologies; - our customer service and support capabilities and responsiveness; - the successful development of our relationships with existing and potential customers; and - changes in technology, industry standards or end-user preferences. We cannot provide assurance that products and services that we have recently developed or may develop in the future will achieve market acceptance. If our new products and services fail to achieve market acceptance, or if we fail to develop new or enhanced products and services that achieve market acceptance, our growth prospects, operating results and competitive position could be adversely affected. RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES MAY PREVENT US FROM REMAINING CURRENT WITH OUR TECHNOLOGICAL RESOURCES AND MAINTAINING COMPETITIVE PRODUCT AND SERVICE OFFERINGS. The markets in which our businesses operate are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent introductions of new and enhanced products and services, evolving industry standards and changes in customer needs. Significant technological changes could render our existing and planned new products, services and technology obsolete. Our future success will depend, in large part, upon our ability to: - effectively use and develop leading technologies; - continue to develop our technical expertise; 22 - enhance our current products and services; - develop new products and services that meet changing customer needs; and - respond to emerging industry standards and technological changes in a cost-effective manner. If we are unable to successfully respond to these developments or if we do not respond to them in a cost-effective manner, then our business will be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in responding to changing technology or market needs. In addition, products, services and technologies developed by others may render our products, services and technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. Even if we do successfully respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards, the integration of new technology may require substantial time and expense, and we cannot assure you that we will succeed in adapting our products, services and technology in a timely and cost-effective manner. We may experience financial or technical difficulties or limitations that could prevent us from introducing new or enhanced products or services. Furthermore, any of these new or enhanced products, services and technology could contain problems that are discovered after they are introduced. We may need to significantly modify the design of these products and services to correct problems. Rapidly changing technology and operating systems may impede market acceptance of our products, services and technology. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if we experience difficulties in introducing new or enhanced services and products or if these products and services are not received favorably by our customers. Development and enhancement of our products and services will require significant additional expenses and could strain our management, financial and operational resources. The lack of market acceptance of our products or services or our inability to generate sufficient revenues from this development or enhancements to offset their costs could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the past, we have experienced delays in releasing new products and services and enhancements, and we may experience similar delays in the future. These delays or problems in the installation of implementation of our new products and services and enhancements may cause customers to forego purchases of our products and services to purchase those of our competitors. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO CONTINUE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN KEY PERSONNEL, OUR BUSINESS WILL BE MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECTED. We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, managerial, sales, marketing, finance and operations personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain these key employees in the future. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although we have entered into employment agreements with some of our executive officers, we generally do not have employment contracts with our other key employees. In addition, we do not have key person life insurance for most of our key personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our current key personnel or that we will be able attract or retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect in the future to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. If we are unable to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, our business could be materially and adversely affected. WE FACE INTENSE COMPETITION IN THE MARKETS FOR OUR PRODUCTS, SERVICES AND TECHNOLOGY, AND IF WE CANNOT SUCCESSFULLY COMPETE IN THOSE MARKETS, OUR BUSINESS WILL BE MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECTED. The markets for our products, services and technology are intensely competitive and subject to rapidly changing technology, new competing products and services, frequent performance improvements and evolving industry standards. We expect the intensity of competition to increase in the future because the growth potential and deregulatory environment of the energy market have attracted and are anticipated to continue to attract many new competitors, including new businesses as well as established businesses from different industries. Competition may also increase as a result of industry consolidation. As a result of increased competition, we may have to reduce the price of our products and services, and we may experience reduced gross margins and loss of market share, which could significantly reduce our future revenues and operating results. Many of our existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, manufacturing and other resources than we do. This may enable our competitors to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or preferences and to devote greater resources to the 23 development, promotion and sale of their products and services than we can. Our competitors may be able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and make more attractive offers to potential employees, customers, strategic partners and suppliers and vendors than we can. Our competitors may develop products and services that are equal or superior to the products and services offered by us or that achieve greater market acceptance than our products do. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to improve their ability to address the needs of our existing and prospective customers. As a result, it is possible that new competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share or impede our ability to acquire market share in new markets. We cannot assure you that we will have the financial resources, technical expertise, portfolio of products and services or marketing and support capabilities to compete successfully in the future. Our inability to compete successfully or to timely respond to market demands or changes would have a material adverse effect on our business, conditions and results of operations. DOWNTURNS IN GENERAL ECONOMIC AND MARKET CONDITIONS COULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. There is potential for a downturn in general economic and market conditions. In recent years, some segments of the economy, including the technology industry in particular, have experienced significant economic downturns characterized by decreased product demand, price erosion, work slowdowns and layoffs. Moreover, there is increasing uncertainty in the energy and technology markets attributed to many factors, including international terrorism and strife, global economic conditions and strong competitive forces. Our future results of operations may experience substantial fluctuations from period to period as a consequence of these factors, and such conditions and other factors affecting capital spending may affect the timing of orders from major customers. An economic downturn coupled with a decline in our revenues could adversely affect our ability meet our capital requirement, support our working capital requirements and growth objectives, maintain our existing financing arrangements, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result, any economic downturns in general or in our markets, particularly those affecting industrial and commercial users of natural gas and electricity, would have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. IF WE FAIL TO EFFECTIVELY MANAGE OUR FUTURE GROWTH, OUR ABILITY TO MARKET AND SELL OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES AND TO DEVELOP NEW PRODUCTS AND SERVICES MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. We must plan and manage our growth effectively in order to offer our products and services and achieve revenue growth and profitability in a rapidly evolving market. Our future growth will place a significant strain on our management systems and resources. If we are not able to effectively manage our growth in the future, our business may be materially and adversely affected. CHANGES IN OUR PRODUCT MIX COULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. The margins on our revenues from some of our product and service offerings is higher than the margins on some of our other product and service offerings. In addition, we cannot currently accurately estimate the margins of some of our new and developing products and services due to their limited operating history. Our new products and services may have lower margins than our current products and services. If in the future we derive a proportionately greater percentage of our revenues from lower margin products and services, then our overall margins on our total revenues will decrease and, accordingly, will result in lower net income, or higher net losses, and less cash flow on the same amount of revenues. OUR MANAGEMENT OF MM 1995-2, A PRIVATE PROGRAM, PRESENTS RISKS TO US. MGT is our subsidiary that manages and holds a minority ownership interest in MM 1995-2, a private program that owns and operates four oil and gas production water disposal facilities. While MGT does not intend to form any new private programs, it may from time to time increase its economic interest in the program or initiate or manage actions intended to expand the program's assets or activities. This program was financed by a private placement of equity interests raising capital to acquire the assets and business operated by the program. Our management of this program presents risks to us, including: - lawsuits by investors in this program who become dissatisfied with the results of the program; 24 - material adverse changes in the business, results of operations and financial condition of the program due to events, conditions and factors outside of our control, such as general and local conditions affecting the oil and gas market generally and the revenues of the program specifically; - risks inherent in managing a program and taking significant actions that affect its investors; - changes in the regulatory environment relating to the program; - reliance upon significant suppliers and customers by the program; - hazards of oil production water disposal facilities, including environmental hazards; and - changes in technology. If any of these risks materialize and we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. OUR INTERNATIONAL SALES ACTIVITIES ARE SUBJECT TO MANY RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES THAT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS IF THEY MATERIALIZE. We market and sell some of our products and services in international markets. While our sales into international markets have declined in recent years, generating only approximately 1% of our consolidated revenues in fiscal 2005, 2% in fiscal 2004 and 3% in fiscal 2003, one component of our strategy for future growth involves the expansion of our products and services into new international markets and the expansion of our marketing efforts in our current international markets. This expansion will require significant management attention and financial resources to establish additional offices, hire additional personnel, localize and market products and services in foreign markets and develop relationships with international service providers. However, we have only limited experience in international operations, including in developing localized versions of our products and services and in developing relationships with international service providers. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be successful in expanding our international operations, or that revenues from international operations will be sufficient to offset these additional costs. If revenues from international operations are not adequate to offset the additional expense from expanding these international operations, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We are exposed to several risks inherent in conducting business on an international level that could result in increased expenses, or could limit our ability to generate revenues, including: - difficulties in collecting international accounts receivable and longer collection periods; - the impact of local economic conditions and practices; - difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; - difficulties in complying with foreign regulatory and commercial requirements; - increased costs associated with maintaining international marketing efforts; - fluctuations in currency exchange rates; - potential adverse tax consequences; - adverse changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements; - import and export restrictions; - export controls relating to technology; - tariffs and other trade barriers; - political and economic instability; - reduced protection for intellectual property rights; - cultural and language difficulties; - the potential exchange and repatriation of foreign earnings; and - the localization and translation of products and services. Our success in expanding our international sales activities will depend in large part on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks, many of which are outside of our control. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. We 25 cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to successfully market, sell and deliver our products and services in foreign markets. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO ACQUIRE OTHER BUSINESSES, TECHNOLOGY OR COMPANIES, OR TO FORM STRATEGIC ALLIANCES AND RELATIONSHIPS, OR TO SUCCESSFULLY REALIZE THE BENEFITS OF ANY ACQUISITION OR ALLIANCE. In the past, we have grown by acquiring complimentary businesses, technologies, services and products and entering into strategic alliances and relationships with complimentary businesses. We evaluate potential acquisition opportunities from time to time, including those that could be material in size and scope. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to continue to evaluate potential acquisitions, investment opportunities and strategic alliances on an ongoing basis as they present themselves to facilitate our ability to enhance our existing products, services and technology, and to introduce new products, services and technology, on a timely basis. However, we do not know if we will be able to identify any future opportunities that we believe will be beneficial for us. Even if we are able to identify an appropriate acquisition opportunity, we may not be able to successfully finance the acquisition. If we are unable to identify, finance or obtain the benefits of future acquisitions and alliances, our growth may be impaired and our business may be adversely affected. Any future acquisition involves risks commonly encountered in business relationships, including: - difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and services of the acquired business; - the technologies, products or businesses that we acquire may not achieve expected levels of revenue, profitability, benefits or productivity; - difficulties in retaining, training, motivating and integrating key personnel; - diversion of management's time and resources away from our normal daily operations; - difficulties in successfully incorporating licensed or acquired technology and rights into our product and service offerings; - difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies within the combined organizations; - difficulties in retaining relationships with customers, employees and suppliers of the acquired company; - risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience; - potential disruptions of our ongoing businesses; and - unexpected costs and unknown liabilities associated with the acquisitions. For these reasons, future acquisitions could materially and adversely affect our existing businesses. Moreover, we cannot predict the accounting treatment of any acquisition, in part because we cannot be certain whether current accounting regulations, conventions or interpretations will prevail in the future. In addition, to finance any future acquisitions, it may be necessary for us to incur additional indebtedness or raise additional funds through public or private financings. These financings may not be available to us at all, or if available may not be available on terms satisfactory to us or to those whose consents are required for such financings. Available equity or debt financings may materially and adversely affect our business and operations and, in the case of equity financings, may significantly dilute the percentage ownership interests of our stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will make any additional acquisitions or that any acquisitions, if made, will be successful, will assist us in the accomplishment of our business strategy, or will generate sufficient revenues to offset the associated costs and other adverse effects or will otherwise result in us receiving the intended benefits of the acquisition. In addition, we cannot assure you that any acquisition of new businesses or technology will lead to the successful development of new or enhanced products and services, or that any new or enhanced products and services, if developed, will achieve market acceptance or prove to be profitable. IF WE FAIL TO ADEQUATELY PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS, WE COULD LOSE IMPORTANT PROPRIETARY TECHNOLOGY, WHICH COULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. 26 Our success and ability to compete depends, in substantial part, upon our ability to develop and protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights to distinguish our products, services and technology from those of our competitors. The unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights and proprietary technologies by others could materially harm our business. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, along with confidentiality agreements, contractual provisions and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. Although we hold copyrights and trademarks in our business, and we have applied for a patent and the registration of a number of new trademarks and service marks and intend to introduce new trademarks and service marks, we believe that the success of our business depends more upon our proprietary technology, information, processes and know-how than on patents or trademark registrations. In addition, much of our proprietary information and technology may not be patentable. We may not be successful in obtaining any patents or in registering new marks. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, existing laws afford only limited protection, and our actions may be inadequate to protect our rights or to prevent others from claiming violations of their proprietary rights. Unauthorized third parties may attempt to copy, reverse engineer or otherwise obtain, use or exploit aspects of our products and services, develop similar technology independently, or otherwise obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. We cannot assure you that our competitors will not independently develop technology similar or superior to our technology or design around our intellectual property. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights as fully or in the same manner as the laws of the United States. We may need to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, and to determine the validity and scope of other companies' proprietary rights in the future. However, litigation could result in significant costs or in the diversion of management and financial resources. We cannot assure you that any such litigation will be successful or that we will prevail over counterclaims against us. Our failure to protect any of our important intellectual property rights or any litigation that we resort to in order to enforce those rights could materially and adversely affect our business. IF WE FACE CLAIMS OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY INFRINGEMENT BY THIRD PARTIES, WE COULD ENCOUNTER EXPENSIVE LITIGATION, BE LIABLE FOR SIGNIFICANT DAMAGES OR INCUR RESTRICTIONS ON OUR ABILITY TO SELL OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES. Although we are not aware of any present infringement of our products or technologies on the intellectual property rights of others, we cannot be certain that our products, services and technologies do not or in the future will not infringe on the valid intellectual property rights held by third parties. In addition, we cannot assure you that third parties will not claim that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. We may incur substantial expenses in litigation defending against any third party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement claims against us could result in substantial monetary liability, require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, or otherwise materially disrupt the conduct of our business. In addition, even if we prevail on these claims, this litigation could be time-consuming and expensive to defend or settle, and could result in the diversion of our time and attention, which could materially and adversely affect our business. In recent years, there has been a significant amount of litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. In the future, we may be a party to litigation as a result of an alleged infringement of others' intellectual property. These claims and any resulting lawsuits, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights. These lawsuits, regardless of their success, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management time and attention. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: - stop selling, incorporating or using our products and services that use the infringed intellectual property; - obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all; or - redesign the products and services that use the technology. If we are forced to take any of these actions, our business may be seriously harmed. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. 27 WE FACE SOME RISKS THAT ARE INHERENT IN NATURAL GAS AND ELECTRICAL OPERATIONS. Some of our operations are subject to the hazards and risks inherent in the servicing and operation of natural gas assets, including encountering unexpected pressures, explosions, fire, natural disasters, blowouts, cratering and pipeline ruptures, as well as in the manufacture, sale and operation of electrical equipment such as PowerSecure's distributed generation system, including electrical shocks, which hazards and risks could result in personal injuries, loss of life, environmental damage and other damage to our properties and the properties of others. These operations involve numerous financial, business, regulatory, environmental, operating and legal risks. Damages occurring as a result of these risks may give rise to product liability claims against us. Although we believe that our insurance is adequate and customary for companies of our size that are engaged in operations similar to ours, Losses due to risks and uncertainties could occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or could exceed our insurance coverage of $6 million coverage per occurrence and $7 million annual aggregate coverage. Therefore, the occurrence of a significant adverse effect that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material and adverse effect on our business. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at reasonable rates. WE COULD BECOME SUBJECT TO BURDENSOME GOVERNMENT REGULATION THAT AFFECTS OUR ABILITY TO OFFER OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES OR THAT AFFECTS DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES. Our business operations are subject to varying degrees of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. Regulatory agencies may impose special requirements for implementation and operation of our products, services or technologies that may significantly impact or even eliminate some of our target markets. We may incur material costs or liabilities in complying with government regulations. In addition, potentially significant laws, regulations and requirements may be adopted or imposed in the future. Furthermore, some of our customers must comply with numerous laws and regulations. The modification or adoption of future laws and regulations could adversely affect our business and our ability to continually modify or alter our methods of operations at reasonable costs. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be able, for financial or other reasons, to comply with all applicable laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could become subject to substantial penalties which could materially and adversely affect our business. OUR BUSINESS COULD SUFFER IF WE CANNOT MAINTAIN AND EXPAND OUR CURRENT STRATEGIC ALLIANCES AND DEVELOP NEW ALLIANCES. One element of our business strategy is the development of corporate relationships such as strategic alliances with other companies to provide products and services to existing and new markets and to develop new products and services and enhancements to existing products and services. We believe that our success in the future in penetrating new markets will depend in large part on our ability to maintain these relationships and to cultivate additional or alternative relationships. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to develop new corporate relationships, or that these relationships will be successful in achieving their purposes. Our failure to continue our existing corporate relationships and develop new relationships could materially and adversely affect our business. TERRORIST ACTIVITIES AND RESULTING MILITARY AND OTHER ACTIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. The terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 disrupted commerce throughout the world. In response to such attacks, the U.S. is actively using military force to pursue those behind these attacks and initiating broader actions against global terrorism. The continued threat of terrorism throughout the world, the escalation of military action, and heightened security measures in response to such threats may cause significant disruption to commerce throughout the world. To the extent that such disruptions result in reductions in capital expenditures or spending on technology, longer sales cycles, deferral or delay of customer orders, or an inability to effectively market our products or services, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. CHANGES IN LAWS, REGULATIONS AND FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS COULD CAUSE US TO INCUR INCREASED COSTS AND EXPENSES, MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECTING OUR BUSINESS AND OUR REPORTED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. 28 Recently enacted changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, especially those pertaining to corporate governance and public disclosure such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related SEC regulations, have caused us to incur increased costs of compliance and have resulted in changes in accounting standards or accepted practices within our industry. New laws, regulations and accounting standards, as well as the questioning of, or changes to, currently accepted accounting practices may increase our costs and thus adversely affect our reported financial results, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. New laws, rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, forcing us to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as our executive officers. CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING RULES FOR STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS, OUR STOCK PRICE AND OUR COMPETITIVENESS IN THE EMPLOYEE MARKETPLACE. We have a history of using employee stock options and other stock-based compensation to hire, motivate and retain our employees. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (Revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment," which has required us, since January 1, 2006, to measure compensation costs for all stock-based compensation, including stock options, at fair value and to recognize these costs as expenses in our statements of income. The recognition of these expenses in our statements of income will have a negative effect on our earnings per share, which could negatively impact our future stock price. In addition, if we reduce or alter our use of stock-based compensation to minimize the recognition of these expenses, our ability to recruit, motivate and retain employees may be impaired, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage in the employee marketplace. THERE IS NO ASSURANCE THAT WE WILL BE ABLE TO IMPLEMENT, IN A TIMELY MANNER, THE INTERNAL CONTROLS PROCEDURES NECESSARY TO ALLOW OUR MANAGEMENT TO REPORT ON THE EFFECTIVENESS OF OUR INTERNAL CONTROLS. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we may be required to furnish an internal controls report of management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls as part of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, based on the recent trading price of our common stock. Our independent registered public accounting firm will then be required to attest to, and report on, our assessment. In order to issue our report, our management must document both the design of our internal controls and the testing processes that support management's evaluation and conclusion. Our management has begun the necessary processes and procedures for issuing its report on our internal controls. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to complete the work necessary for our management to issue its management report in a timely manner, or that management will be able to report that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 