ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information included and incorporated by reference in this Annual Report, including the risk factors listed below. Any of these risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the trading price of shares of our common stock. Additional risks not currently known or currently material to us may also harm our business. Keep these risk factors in mind when you read forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report and the documents incorporated by reference in this Annual Report. These statements relate to our expectations about future events and time periods. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential,” “continue” or “opportunity,” the negative of these words or words of similar import. Similarly, statements that describe our reserves and our future plans, strategies, intentions, expectations, objectives, goals or prospects are also forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and future events and circumstances could differ significantly from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. We must protect our patent and other intellectual property rights to succeed. Our success is dependent in significant part on our ability to protect the scope, validity and enforceability of our intellectual property, including our patents, SPCs and license agreements. The scope, validity, enforceability and effective term of patents and SPCs can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal and factual questions and proceedings. In addition, the legal principles applicable to patents in any given jurisdiction may be altered through changing court precedent and legislative action, and such changes may affect the scope, strength and enforceability of our patent rights or the nature of proceedings which may be brought by us or a third party related to our patent rights. A finding in a proceeding related to our patent rights which narrows the scope or which affects the validity or enforceability of some or all of our patent rights could have a material impact on our ability to continue to collect royalty payments from our licensees or execute new license agreements. Any of these proceedings could further result in either loss of a patent or loss or reduction in the scope of one or more of the claims of the patent or claims underlying an SPC. These proceedings could be expensive, last several years and result in a significant reduction in the scope or invalidation of our patents. Any limitation in claim scope could reduce our ability to collect royalties or commence enforcement proceedings based on these patents. Moreover, the scope of a patent in one country does not assure similar scope of a patent with similar claims in another country. Also, claim interpretation and infringement laws vary among countries. Additionally, we depend on our license agreements to enforce royalty obligations against our licensees. Any limitations in our ability to enforce, such as limits on the scope of and/or an adverse interpretation of, the various licensee obligations in our licenses and related agreements could reduce our ability to collect royalties based on our license agreements. As a result of these factors, we are unable to predict the extent of our intellectual property protection in any country. For further information, see “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” Our common stock may lose value, our common stock could be delisted from NASDAQ and our business may be liquidated due to several factors, including the expiration of our Queen et al. patents, the failure to acquire other sources of royalty revenue, the payment of dividends or distributions to our stockholders and failure to meet analyst expectations. Our revenues consist almost entirely of royalties from licensees of our Queen et al. patents, which finally expire in December of 2014. The continued payment of dividends or distributions to our stockholders without other revenue sources and the approaching patent expiration will likely reduce the price of our common stock. If the price of our common stock were to fall below NASDAQ listing standards, our common stock may be delisted. If our common stock were delisted, market liquidity for our common stock could be severely affected and our stockholders’ ability to sell securities in the secondary market could be limited. Delisting from NASDAQ would negatively affect the value of our common stock. Delisting could also have other negative results, including, but not limited to, the potential loss of confidence by employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. Unless we are able to acquire patents or other sources of royalty revenue on commercially reasonable terms, we will no longer receive patent-related royalties once our licensees have sold all their inventory of licensed product that was manufactured before the expiration of the Queen et al. patents. If we are unsuccessful in acquiring new sources of royalty revenue, we will likely liquidate our business. If we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, or if adverse conditions prevail or are perceived to prevail with respect to our business, the price of the common stock would likely drop significantly. Our revenues in Europe depend on the validity and enforceability of our SPCs and an adverse judgment would severely reduce our future revenues. Our ‘216B Patent in Europe was granted in 1996 by the European Patent Office (EPO). The ‘216B Patent expired on December 28, 2009. To extend the period of enforceability of the ‘216B Patent against specific products which received marketing approval in Europe as of the expiration date of the ‘216B Patent, we applied for SPCs in various European national patent offices to cover Avastin, Herceptin, Xolair, Lucentis and Tysabri to the extent these products are made and sold outside the United States (the SPC Products). These SPCs generally expire in 2014. While our SPCs extend the period of enforceability of our ‘216B Patent against the SPC Products, their enforcement will be subject to varying, complex and evolving national requirements and standards relevant to enforcement of patent claims pursuant to SPCs. In the event that our SPCs are challenged in the national courts of the various countries in Europe in which we own granted SPCs, such a challenge could be directed against the validity of the SPC, the validity of the underlying patent claims and/or whether the product named in the SPC actually infringes those claims and whether the SPC was properly granted pursuant to controlling European law. Such a proceeding would involve complex legal and factual questions and proceedings. In addition, the European Court of Justice has the authority to interpret the SPC regulation and could do so in a manner that materially impacts the enforceability of our SPCs against the SPC Products. As a result of these factors, we are unable to predict the extent of protection afforded by our SPCs. 7 Table of Contents Based on information provided to us in the quarterly royalty statements from our licensees, the royalties we collect on sales of the SPC Products approximated 33% of our royalty revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011. Based on announcements by Roche regarding moving manufacturing outside of the United States, we expect this amount to increase in the future. Our inability to collect those royalties would have a material negative impact on our cash flow, our ability to pay dividends in the future and our ability to service our debt obligations. An adverse decision could also encourage challenges to our related Queen et al. patents in other jurisdictions including the United States. For further information, see “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” We derive a significant portion of our royalty revenues from Genentech and our future success depends on continued market acceptance of their products and approval of their licensed products that are in development, as well as continued performance by Genentech of its obligations under its agreements with us. Our revenues consist almost entirely of royalties from licensees of our Queen et al. patents of which the Genentech Products accounted for 86%, 86% and 71% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our future success depends upon the continued market acceptance of the Genentech products and upon the ability of Genentech to develop, introduce and deliver products that achieve and sustain market acceptance. We have no control over the sales efforts of Genentech and our other licensees, and our licensees might not be successful. Reductions in the sales volume or average selling price of Genentech Products could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our business and results of operations also depend on Genentech continuing to perform its obligations under its license agreements with us. For example, 60% of the royalties we currently receive from Genentech are dedicated to service the debt related to our QHP PhaRMASM Senior Secured Notes due March 15, 2015 (Non-recourse Notes) that we, through our wholly-owned subsidiary, QHP Royalty Sub LLC, issued in November 2009. In August 2010, we received a letter from Genentech on behalf of Roche and Novartis asserting that the Genentech Products do not infringe our SPCs for each of the Genentech Products. If Genentech is successful in asserting this position, then under the terms of our license agreements with Genentech, it would not owe us royalties on ex-U.S.-based Manufacturing and Sales of the Genentech Products. These royalties accounted for approximately 33% of our royalty revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011. If Roche, as Roche has publicly announced, moves more manufacturing outside of the United States, this percentage will increase. We believe that these SPCs are enforceable against the Genentech Products and intend to vigorously assert our SPC-based patent rights. If we are unable to resolve the dispute with Genentech, we will incur significant additional costs and senior management time in asserting our rights under our various agreements with Genentech, whether through continued litigation, arbitration or otherwise. To the extent Genentech stops or reduces payment of royalties on ex-U.S.-based Manufacturing and Sales of the Genentech Products, this would have a material negative impact on our cash flow and our ability to pay dividends in the future and would also cause us to extend the anticipated repayment of our Non-recourse Notes due in March 2015 for which we currently anticipate full repayment in the third quarter of 2012. See “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” Our licensees may be unable to maintain regulatory approvals for currently licensed products, or to obtain regulatory approvals for new products, and they may voluntarily remove currently licensed products from marketing and commercial distribution. Any of such events, whether due to safety issues or other factors, could reduce our revenues. Our licensees are subject to stringent regulation with respect to product safety and efficacy by various international, federal, state and local authorities. Of particular significance are the FDA requirements covering research and development, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling and promotion of drugs for human use in the United States. As a result of these requirements, the length of time, the level of expenditures and the laboratory and clinical information required for approval of a biologic license application or new drug application are substantial and can require a number of years. In addition, even if our licensees’ products receive regulatory approval, they remain subject to ongoing FDA and other international regulations including, but not limited to, obligations to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing, changes to the product label, new or revised regulatory requirements for manufacturing practices, written advisements to physicians and/or a product recall or withdrawal. Our licensees may not maintain necessary regulatory approvals for their existing licensed products or our licensees may not obtain necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all, for any of the licensed products our licensees are developing or manufacturing. The occurrence of adverse events reported by any licensee may result in the revocation of regulatory approvals or decreased sales of the applicable product due to a change in physicians’ willingness to prescribe, or patients’ willingness to use the applicable product. Our licensees could also choose to voluntarily remove their licensed products from marketing and commercial distribution. In any of these cases, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents For example, in November 2011, the FDA removed the indication for breast cancer from Avastin’s label. Other licensed products have been suspended from marketing and commercial distribution, such as Mylotarg, which is currently suspended, and Tysabri, which was temporarily suspended and then returned to the market. In such a case, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the current regulatory framework could change or additional regulations could arise at any stage during our licensees’ product development or marketing which may affect our licensees’ ability to obtain or maintain approval of their licensed products. Delays in our licensees receiving regulatory approval for licensed products or their failure to maintain existing regulatory approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our licensees face competition. Our licensees face competition from other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. The introduction of new competitive products or follow-on biologics may result in lost market share for our licensees, reduced use of licensed products, lower prices and/or reduced licensed product sales, any of which could reduce our royalty revenues and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may enter into acquisitions or other material royalty asset transactions now and in the future and such acquisitions may not produce anticipated royalty revenues. We are engaged in a continual review of opportunities to acquire existing royalty assets or to acquire companies that hold royalty assets. We currently, and generally at any time, have acquisition opportunities in various stages of active review, including, for example, our engagement of consultants and advisors to analyze particular opportunities, technical, financial and other confidential information, submission of indications of interest and involvement as a bidder in competitive auctions. Many potential acquisition targets do not meet our criteria, and for those that do, we may face significant competition for these acquisitions from other royalty buyers and enterprises. Competition for future royalty asset acquisition opportunities in our markets could increase the price we pay for royalty assets we acquire and could reduce the number of potential acquisition targets. The success of our royalty asset acquisitions is based on our ability to make accurate assumptions regarding the valuation, timing and amount of royalty payments. The failure of any of these acquisitions to produce anticipated royalty revenues may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We intend to reserve from time to time a certain amount of cash in order to satisfy the obligations relating to our convertible notes. The maturity or conversion of any of our convertible notes may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results, which could adversely affect the amount or timing of dividends to our stockholders. As of February 2, 2012, $155.3 million in principal remained outstanding under our May 2015 Notes, $1.0 million in principal remained outstanding under our February 2015 Notes and $179.0 million in principal remained outstanding under our Series 2012 Notes. At maturity, we will have to pay the holders of such notes the full aggregate principal amount of the convertible notes, then outstanding. For example, on February 15, 2015, we will have to pay the full aggregate principal amount of our Series 2012 Notes, $179.0 million as of February 2, 2012. Holders of the February 2015 Notes may convert their notes at any time, at the holder’s election. Holders of the May 2015 Notes and Series 2012 Notes may convert their notes at their option under the following circumstances: (i) during any fiscal quarter commencing after the fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2011, in the case of our May 2015 Notes, and December 31, 2011, in the case of our Series 2012 Notes, if the last reported sale price of our common stock for at least 20 trading days in a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter exceeds 130% of the conversion price for the notes on the last day of such preceding fiscal quarter; (ii) during the five business-day period immediately after any five consecutive trading-day period, which we refer to as the measurement period, in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of notes for each trading day of that measurement period was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of our common stock and the conversion rate for the notes for each such day; or (iii) upon the occurrence of specified corporate events. On and after November 1, 2014, in the case of our May 2015 Notes, and August 15, 2014, in the case of our Series 2012 Notes, holders may convert their notes at any time, regardless of the foregoing circumstances. These notes “net share settle,” meaning that if a conversion occurs, the principal amount is due in cash, and to the extent that the conversion value exceeds the principal amount, the difference is due in shares of our common stock. If one or more holders elect to convert their notes when conversion is permitted, we would be required to make cash payments to satisfy up to the face value of our conversion obligation in respect of each note, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their May 2015 Notes or Series 2012 Notes, because our May 2015 Notes and Series 2012 Notes are net share settled, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of our May 2015 Notes and Series 2012 Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which could result in a material reduction of our net working capital. We intend to reserve from time to time a certain amount of cash in order to satisfy these repurchase or other obligations relating to the convertible notes which could adversely affect the amount or timing of any distribution to our stockholders or any royalty asset acquisition. In addition, we may redeem (except in the case of our Series 2012 Notes that are unredeemable by us), repurchase or otherwise acquire the convertible notes in the open market in the future, any of which could adversely affect the amount or timing of any cash distribution to our stockholders. 9 Table of Contents The conversion of any of our February 2015 Notes, our May 2015 Notes or our Series 2012 Notes into shares of our common stock would have a dilutive effect which could cause our stock price to go down. Our May 2015 Notes, until November 1, 2014, and our Series 2012 Notes, until August 15, 2014, are convertible into shares of our common stock only if specified conditions are met and thereafter convertible at any time, at the option of the holder. Our February 2015 Notes are convertible at any time at the holder’s election. We have reserved shares of our authorized common stock for issuance upon conversion of these convertible notes. Upon conversion, the principal amount is due in cash, and to the extent that the conversion value exceeds the principal amount, the difference is due in shares of common stock. If any or all of these convertible notes are converted into shares of our common stock, our existing stockholders will experience immediate dilution of voting rights and our common stock price may decline. Furthermore, the perception that such dilution could occur may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The conversion rate as of February 2, 2012, for our February 2015 Notes and Series 2012 Notes is 155.396 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount or a conversion price of approximately $6.44 per share of common stock and the conversion rate for our May 2015 Notes is 135.9607 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount, or a conversion price of approximately $7.36 per share of common stock. Because the conversion rates of these convertible notes adjust upward upon the occurrence of certain events, such as a dividend payment, our existing stockholders may experience more dilution if any or all of these convertible notes are converted into shares of our common stock after the adjusted conversion rates became effective. We entered into purchased call option and warrant transactions in connection with the issuance of our May 2015 Notes that may affect the value of our common stock. In connection with the issuance of our May 2015 Notes, we entered into purchased call option transactions. Separately, we also entered into warrant transactions at that time. The purchased call option transactions are expected to reduce the potential dilution with respect to our common stock upon conversion of our May 2015 Notes. The warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect from the issuance of our common stock pursuant to the warrants. The purchased call option and warrant transactions are accounted for as an adjustment to our stockholders’ deficit. In connection with hedging these transactions, the hedge counterparties to the hedge transactions or their respective affiliates may enter into, or may unwind, various derivative transactions and/or purchase or sell our common stock in secondary market transactions prior to maturity of our May 2015 Notes (and are likely to do so during any cash settlement averaging period related to any conversion of our May 2015 Notes). Such activities could have the effect of decreasing the trading price of our common stock during any cash settlement averaging period related to a conversion of our May 2015 Notes. In addition, we intend to exercise the purchased call options whenever May 2015 Notes are converted, if ever. In order to unwind their hedge positions with respect to those exercised options, the hedge counterparties or their respective affiliates may sell shares of our common stock in secondary market transactions or unwind various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock during the cash settlement averaging period for the converted notes. The effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the trading price of our common stock will depend, in part, on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Further, a failure by the hedge counterparties or their respective affiliates (due to bankruptcy or otherwise) to pay or deliver, as the case may be, amounts owed to us under the purchased call option transactions will not reduce the consideration we are required to deliver to a holder upon its conversion of our May 2015 Notes and may result in an increase in dilution with respect to our common stock. Changes in the third-party reimbursement environment may affect product sales from which we generate royalty revenues. Sales of products from which we generate royalties will depend significantly on the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatments will be available to physicians and patients from various levels of U.S. and international government health authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Third-party payers and government health administration authorities increasingly attempt to limit and/or regulate the reimbursement of medical products and services, including branded prescription drugs. Changes in government legislation or regulation, such as the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010; the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2009 and the Medicare, Medicaid and State Children’s Health Insurance Program Extension Act of 2007; changes in formulary or compendia listing or changes in private third-party payers’ policies toward reimbursement for such products may reduce reimbursement of the cost of such products to physicians, pharmacies and distributors. Decreases in third-party reimbursement could reduce usage of such products and sales to collaborators, which may have a material adverse effect on our royalties. In addition, macroeconomic factors may affect the ability of patients to pay or co-pay for costs or otherwise pay for products from which we generate royalties by, for example, decreasing the number of patients covered by insurance policies or increasing costs associated with such policies. 10 Table of Contents Our revenues and operating results will likely fluctuate in future periods. Our royalty revenues may be unpredictable and fluctuate because they depend upon, among other things, the rate of growth of sales of licensed products as well as the mix of U.S.-based Sales and ex-U.S.-based Manufacturing and Sales in connection with our master patent license agreement with Genentech. The Genentech agreement provides for a tiered royalty structure. The royalty rate Genentech must pay on 95% of the underlying gross U.S.-based Sales in a given calendar year decreases on incremental U.S.-based Sales above certain net sales thresholds. As a result of the tiered royalty structure, Genentech’s average annual royalty rate for a given year declines as Genentech’s U.S.-based Sales increase during that year. Because we receive royalties one quarter in arrears, the average royalty rate for the payments we receive from Genentech in the second calendar quarter, which would be for Genentech’s sales from the first calendar quarter, has been and is expected to continue to be higher than the average royalty rate for following quarters. The average royalty rate for payments we receive from Genentech is generally lowest in the fourth quarter and first calendar quarter of the following year, which would be for Genentech’s sales from the third and fourth calendar quarter, when Genentech’s U.S.-based Sales bear royalties at a 1% royalty rate. With respect to the ex-U.S.-based Manufacturing and Sales, the royalty rate that we receive from Genentech is a fixed rate of 3% based on 95% of the underlying gross ex-U.S.-based Manufacturing and Sales. The mix of U.S.-based Sales and ex-U.S.-based Manufacturing and Sales has fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate in future periods, particularly in light of the 2009 acquisition of Genentech by Roche. For example, Roche has announced plans to move certain Avastin and Lucentis manufacturing to Singapore. We may experience increases and decreases in our royalty revenues due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and we may be unsuccessful in our attempts to mitigate this risk. A material portion of our royalties are calculated based on sales in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Fluctuations in foreign currency rates, particularly the Eurodollar, relative to the U.S. dollar can significantly affect our revenues and operating results. While foreign currency conversion terms vary by license agreement, generally most agreements require that royalties first be calculated in the currency of sale and then converted into U.S. dollars using the average daily exchange rates for that currency for a specified period at the end of the calendar quarter. For example, when the U.S. dollar weakens in relation to other currencies, the converted amount is greater than it would have been had the U.S. dollar exchange rates remained unchanged. More than 50% of our licensees’ product sales are in currencies other than U.S. dollars; as such, our revenues may fluctuate due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and is subject to foreign currency exchange risk. For example, in a quarter in which we generate $70 million in royalty revenues, approximately $35 million is based on sales in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. If the U.S. dollar strengthens across all currencies by 10% during the conversion period for that quarter, when compared to the same amount of local currency royalties for the prior year, U.S. dollar converted royalties will be approximately $3.5 million less in the current quarter than in the prior year. To compensate for Eurodollar currency fluctuations, we hedge Eurodollar currency exposures with Eurodollar forward contracts and Eurodollar option contracts (collectively, Eurodollar contracts) to offset the risks associated with these Eurodollar currency exposures. We may suspend the use of these contracts from time to time or we may be unsuccessful in our attempt to hedge our Eurodollar currency risk. We will continue to experience foreign currency related fluctuations in our royalty revenues in certain instances when we do not enter into foreign currency exchange contracts or where it is not possible or cost effective to hedge our foreign currency related exposures. Currency related fluctuations in our royalty revenues will vary based on the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, whether we have entered into foreign currency exchange contracts to offset these exposures and other factors. All of these factors could materially impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows, the timing of which is variable and generally outside of our control. 11 Table of Contents We must attract, retain and integrate key employees in order to succeed. It may be difficult to recruit, retain and integrate key employees. To be successful, we must attract, retain and integrate qualified personnel. Our business is intellectual property asset management, investing in new royalty bearing assets and maximizing the value of our patent portfolio and related assets, which requires only a small number of employees. Due to the unique nature and remote location of our company, it may be difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified personnel. If we are unsuccessful in attracting, retaining and integrating qualified personnel, our business could be impaired. Our agreements with Facet may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arm’s-length negotiations between unaffiliated third parties. The agreements associated with the Spin-Off of Facet in December 2008, including the Separation and Distribution Agreement, Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement and Cross License Agreement, were negotiated in the context of the Spin-Off while Facet was still part of PDL and, accordingly, may not reflect more favorable terms that may have resulted from arm’s-length negotiations between unaffiliated third parties. We may have obligations for which we may not be able to collect under our indemnification rights from Facet. Under the terms of the Separation and Distribution agreement with Facet, we and Facet agreed to indemnify the other from and after the Spin-Off with respect to certain indebtedness, liabilities and obligations that were retained by our respective companies. These indemnification obligations could be significant. The ability to satisfy these indemnities, if called upon to do so, will depend upon the future financial strength of each of our companies. We cannot assure you that, if Facet has to indemnify us for any substantial obligations, Facet will have the ability to satisfy those obligations. If Facet does not have the ability to satisfy those obligations, we may be required to satisfy those obligations instead. For example, in connection with the Spin-Off, we entered into amendments to the leases for the facilities in Redwood City, California, which formerly served as our corporate headquarters, under which Facet was added as a co-tenant under the leases and a Co-Tenancy Agreement under which Facet agreed to indemnify us for all matters related to the leases attributable to the period after the Spin-Off date. Should Facet default under its lease obligations, we would be held liable by the landlord as a co-tenant and, thus, we have in substance guaranteed the payments under the lease agreements for the Redwood City facilities, the disposition of which could have a material adverse effect on the amount or timing of any distribution to our stockholders. As of December 31, 2011, the total lease payments for the duration of the guarantee, which runs through December 2021, are approximately $110.8 million. We would also be responsible for lease related payments including utilities, property taxes and common area maintenance which may be as much as the actual lease payments. In April 2010, Abbott Laboratories (Abbott) acquired Facet and later renamed the company Abbott Biotherapeutics Corp. We do not know how Abbott’s acquisition of Facet will impact our ability to collect under our indemnification rights or whether Facet’s ability to satisfy its obligations will change. In addition, we have limited information rights under the Co-Tenancy Agreement. As a result, we are unable to determine definitively whether Facet continues to occupy the space and whether it has subleased the space to another party. See “Item 2—Properties.” We depend on our licensees for the determination of royalty payments. We may not be able to detect errors and payment calculations may call for retroactive adjustments. The royalty payments we receive are determined by our licensees based on their reported sales. Each licensee’s calculation of the royalty payments is subject to and dependent upon the adequacy and accuracy of its sales and accounting functions, and errors may occur from time to time in the calculations made by a licensee. Our license agreements provide us the right to audit the calculations and sales data for the associated royalty payments; however, such audits may occur many months following our recognition of the royalty revenue, may require us to adjust our royalty revenues in later periods and may require expense on the part of the Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 