Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and future operating results may be affected by many risks, uncertainties and other factors, including those set forth below and those contained elsewhere in this report. If any of the following risks were to occur, our business, affairs, assets, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. When we say that something could have a material adverse effect on us or on our business, we mean that it could have one or more of these effects. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The ongoing economic difficulties, including the challenging business and market conditions and the continuing volatility and disruption in the financial and capital markets, have adversely affected our business and financial results in recent years and could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results in future periods. The United States and world economies continue to suffer from unfavorable economic conditions, struggling to recover from the economic recession and financial crisis that are still impacting the business community and the financial markets. These economic conditions include uncertainty over the sustainability of economic recovery, ongoing lagging economic activity, volatility in energy prices, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns in our markets, which have in recent years adversely affected and may in future periods continue to adversely affect our customers and our markets. These poor economic conditions have adversely affected our business and our financial condition and results of operations by extending the length of the sales cycle and causing potential customers to delay, defer or decline to make purchases of our products and services due to uncertainties surrounding the future performance of their businesses, limitations on their capital expenditures, and the adverse effects of the economy and the credit markets on them, especially the business and operating and capital spending budgets of: • utilities; • industrial, institutional, commercial, and governmental users of electricity; • grocery, drug and convenience store retailers; and • oil and natural gas producers. While these economic and financial conditions, which have been adversely affecting our business since 2008, have shown signs of improvement, there is no assurance this improvement will continue or that these conditions will not deteriorate further. These conditions make it difficult for our customers, our vendors, and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. Our results of operations may be negatively impacted in future periods and we may experience substantial fluctuations from period to period as a consequence of these factors, as such conditions and other factors restricting capital spending may affect the timing of orders from major customers. Until these economic and financial conditions improve sufficiently to allow our customers to gain confidence in a sustained economic recovery, these factors could limit our growth and expansion and otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results can fluctuate significantly from period to period, which makes our operating results difficult to predict and can cause our operating results to be less than comparable periods and expectations from time to time. Our operating results have fluctuated significantly from quarter-to-quarter, period-to-period and year-to-year during our operating history and are likely to continue to fluctuate in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Factors that affect our operating results include the following: • the effects of general economic and financial conditions, including the ongoing challenges in the economy and the difficult capital and credit markets, and the potential for such economic and market challenges to continue or recur in the future, negatively impacting our business operations and our revenues and net income, including the negative impact these conditions could have on the timing of and amounts of orders from our customers, and the potential these factors have to negatively impact our access to capital to finance our business; • the size, timing and terms of sales and orders, including large customer orders, as well as the effects of the timing of project phases of completion, and customers delaying, deferring or canceling purchase orders or making smaller purchases than expected; 21 Table of Contents • our ability to increase our revenues through long-term recurring revenue projects, recognizing that increasing our revenues from recurring revenue projects will require significant up-front capital expenditures and protract revenue and profit recognition, while increasing our gross margins over the long-term, including our ability to sell, complete and recognize satisfactory levels of quarterly revenues and net income related to our project-based sales and product and service revenues, which are recognized and billed as they are completed, in order to maintain our current profits and cash flow and to satisfy our financial covenants in our credit facilities and to successfully finance the recurring revenue portion of our business model; • our ability to maintain and grow our utility infrastructure revenues, and maintain and increase pricing, utilization rates and productivity rates, given the significant levels of vehicles, tools and labor in which we have invested and which is required to serve utilities in this business area; • the sale of our Southern Flow business effective January 1, 2011, and the associated loss of revenues, cash flow and income from that business; • our ability to obtain adequate supplies of key components and materials of suitable quality for our products on a timely and cost-effective basis, including the impact of potential supply line constraints, substandard parts, and fluctuations in the cost of raw materials and commodity prices, including without limitation with respect to our Energy Efficiency business unit in relation to third party manufacturing arrangements we have with vendors in China; • the performance of our products, services and technologies, and the ability of our systems to meet the performance standards they are designed and built to deliver to our customers, including but not limited to our recurring revenue projects for which we retain the on-going risks associated with the performance and ownership of the systems; • our ability to access significant capital resources on a timely basis in order to fund working capital requirements, fulfill large customer orders, and finance capital required for recurring revenue projects and equipment for our utility infrastructure business; • our ability to implement our business plans and strategies and the timing of such implementation; • the pace of revenue and profit realization from our new businesses and the development and growth of their markets, including the timing, pricing and market acceptance of our new products and services; • changes in our pricing policies and those of our competitors, including the introduction of lower cost competing technologies and the potential for them to impact our pricing and our profit margins; • variations in the length of our sales cycle and in the product and service delivery and construction process; • changes in the mix of our products and services having differing margins; • changes in our operating expenses, including prices for materials including but not limited to copper, aluminum and other raw materials, labor costs and other components of our products and services, fuel prices including diesel, natural gas, oil and gasoline, and our ability or inability to hedge or otherwise manage these prices to protect our costs and revenues, minimize the impact of volatile exchange rates and mitigate unforeseen or unanticipated expenses; • changes in our valuation allowance for our net deferred tax asset, and the resulting impact on our current tax expenses, future tax expenses and balance sheet account balances; • the effects of severe weather conditions, such as hurricanes, on the business operations of our customers, and the potential effect of such conditions on our results of operations; • the life cycles of our products and services, and competitive alternatives in the marketplace; • budgeting cycles of utilities and other industrial, commercial and institutional customers, including impacts of the current downturn in the economy and difficult capital markets conditions on capital projects and other spending items; • changes and uncertainties in the lead times required to obtain the necessary permits and other governmental and regulatory approvals for projects; • the development and maintenance of business relationships with strategic partners such as utilities and large customers; 22 Table of Contents • economic conditions and regulations in the energy industry, especially in the electricity, natural gas and oil sectors, including the effects of changes in energy prices, electricity pricing and utility tariffs; • changes in the prices charged by our suppliers; • the effects of governmental regulations and regulatory changes in our markets; • the effects of litigation, warranty claims and other claims and proceedings; and • our ability to make and obtain the expected benefits from the development or acquisition of technology or businesses, and the costs related to such development or acquisitions. Because we have little or no control over most of these factors, our operating results are difficult to predict. Any substantial adverse change in any of these factors could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Our revenues and other operating results are heavily dependent upon the size and timing of customer orders and payments, and the timing of the completion of those projects. The timing of large individual orders, and of project completion, is difficult for us to predict. Because our operating expenses are based on anticipated revenues over the long-term and because a high percentage of these are relatively fixed, a shortfall or delay in recognizing revenues can cause our operating results to vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and can result in significant operating losses or declines in profit margins in any particular quarter. If our revenues fall below our expectations in any particular quarter, we may not be able to or it may not be prudent to reduce our expenses rapidly in response to the shortfall, which can result in us suffering significant operating losses or declines in profit margins in that quarter. As we develop new lines of business, our revenues and costs will fluctuate because generally new businesses require start-up expenses but take time for revenues to develop. Another factor that could cause material fluctuations in our quarterly results is the amount of recurring, as opposed to project-based, sources of revenue we generate for our distributed generation and utility infrastructure projects. To date, the majority of our Energy and Smart Grid Solutions segment revenues have consisted of project-based distributed generation revenues, project-based utility infrastructure revenues and sales of EfficientLights lighting fixtures, which are recognized as the sales occur or the projects are completed. However, we have marketing efforts focused on developing more sales under our recurring revenue model, for which the costs and capital is invested initially and the related revenue and profit is recognized over the life of the contract, generally five to fifteen years. Recurring revenue projects, compared to project-based sales, are generally more profitable but result in delayed recognition of revenue and net income, especially in the short-term, as we implement an increased number of these recurring revenue projects. Our Energy Services segment operating results will vary as a result of fluctuations in energy prices. Results from our WaterSecure operations have, in the past, fluctuated significantly with changes in oil and natural gas prices and production in Colorado. Due to these factors and the other risks discussed in this report, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter, period-to-period or year-to-year comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. Quarterly, period and annual comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful or indicative of future performance. As a result, it is likely that, from time to time, our results of operations could fall below historical levels or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. We may not be able to remain profitable or return to or exceed the levels of revenues, profits and growth that we have experienced in recent years. In recent years our operations have generally been profitable and, until 2009, we generally experienced a high rate of growth in our revenues. We may not be able to return to or exceed our historic levels of growth, revenues or profitability in future periods due to the factors listed in this item as well as other factors discussed elsewhere in this report. For example, the difficult economic conditions are negatively affecting our markets and our customers’ demand for our products, services and systems. Also, due to sales of our products and services under our recurring revenue model, which model entails significant up-front capital expenditures and costs with the corresponding revenues being realized over an extended number of years, as well as due to costs we incur in connection with the expansion of new businesses, products and services, our revenues and profits may not grow in the future at the same rates as they have grown in the past or could even decline, and we also could incur expenses and capital expenditures in the short-term that could adversely affect our operating results. As a result, there is no assurance that we will continue to generate revenues and profits in future periods that exceed or are comparable to prior periods, or that we will be profitable in any particular future period. If our future growth rates, revenues and margins do not meet our expectations, or if our operating expenses are higher than we anticipate, then our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents The recent sale of our non-core Southern Flow business will reduce our revenues and profits in the near term and could adversely affect our financial results in the longer term, and we could experience similar negative effects to our revenue and profit to the extent that we monetize our other non-core business, our WaterSecure operations. The recent sale of Southern Flow in 2011 represents a continuation of our strategy to monetize our non-core assets where beneficial in order to focus on our core Energy and Smart Grid Solutions businesses. We received net cash proceeds of approximately $16.5 million in connection with the sale of Southern Flow. However, we will no longer receive the revenues, positive cash flows and positive earnings generated by that business. In 2010, for example, Southern Flow generated $19.4 million in revenues, $2.8 million in operating cash flow, and $2.5 million in operating income. We intend to deploy the cash proceeds from this sale into core business investments, with the goal of generating even higher revenues, cash flow and operating income from this capital in future periods than we believe our Southern Flow business would have realized. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to find the appropriate business opportunities to invest such cash proceeds, or when those opportunities will arise, or how long it will take them to be financially successfully or how successful the financial results of those opportunities will be. Our failure to timely and successfully deploy the capital received from the monetization of our non-core businesses could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We may require a substantial amount of additional funds to finance our capital requirements and the growth of our business, and we may not be able to raise a sufficient amount of funds, or to do so on terms favorable to us and our stockholders, or at all. Although we believe we have adequate liquidity and capital resources to fund our operations internally for the foreseeable future, we may need to obtain additional capital to fund our capital obligations and to finance the growth and expansion of our businesses. For example, we may need substantial capital to finance the development and growth of our recurring revenue projects, which are capital intensive. In addition, our Energy Efficiency and Utility Infrastructure business units have experienced high growth rates, which have required, and will likely continue to require, additional funds to finance working capital needs, and investments in operational equipment. Moreover, from time to time as part of our business plan, we engage in discussions regarding potential acquisitions of businesses and technologies. While our ability to finance future acquisitions could depend on our ability to raise additional capital, as of the date of this report, we have not entered into any agreement committing us to any such acquisition. Moreover, unanticipated events, and events over which we have no control, could increase our operating costs or decrease our ability to generate revenues from product and service sales, necessitating additional capital. We continually evaluate our cash flow requirements as well as our opportunity to raise additional capital in order to improve our financial position. In addition, we continually evaluate opportunities to optimize the availability, cost and terms of our credit facilities. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to maintain our existing debt facilities, raise additional capital or replace our current credit facility when needed or desired, or that the terms of any such financing will be favorable to us and our stockholders. Under our credit facility, which was amended in January 2011 in connection with our sale of Southern Flow and reduced in size in light of the cash proceeds we received, we have a maximum credit line of $25 million, subject to our meeting certain financial and operating covenants. The credit facility matures on November 12, 2013, but we have the option prior to that maturity date, assuming we are in compliance with all our financial covenants and not otherwise in default, to convert a portion of the outstanding principal balance under that credit facility into a non-revolving term loan for a two year period expiring November 12, 2015, with quarterly payments based upon a four year amortization. However, upon maturity of the credit facility in November 2013, we would still need to refinance any balance of our credit facility that is not so converted, and to obtain funding for our future capital requirements. As of December 31, 2010, we had $5.0 million of borrowings outstanding under our credit facility, which was the same balance as of March 10, 2011, and we were in full compliance with all our covenants. 24 Table of Contents Our ability to borrow under the revolving credit facility is subject to our ability to satisfy a number of financial covenants, including a maximum leverage ratio, minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, minimum asset coverage ratio, minimum consolidated tangible net worth, a maximum debt to net worth ratio, and until March 31, 2012 a minimum cash balance equal to 65% of our outstanding credit facility borrowings. Our ability to satisfy those covenants depends principally upon our ability to achieve positive operating performance. If we are unable to fully satisfy the financial covenants of the credit facility, including until March 31, 2012 minimum cash balance equal to 65% of our outstanding credit facility borrowings, and any such failure is not waived by our lenders, then we will be in breach of the terms of our credit facility. Our obligations under the credit facility are secured by a first priority security interest in substantially all of the assets of our operating subsidiaries, which have guaranteed the credit facility. Any breach of the covenants in the credit facility could result in a default under the credit facility, and lead to an acceleration of the payment of all outstanding debt owed, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. In such case, we would seek an amendment, or a waiver of any breach of any term of our credit agreement, or consider other options, such as raising capital through an equity issuance to pay down debt, which could be dilutive to stockholders. There can be no assurance that our lenders would agree to any such amendment or waiver. In the event we obtain such an amendment or waiver under our credit agreement, we would likely incur additional fees and higher interest expense. Moreover, we could be adversely affected by the failure of one or more of our lenders to fulfill their commitments under our credit facility, due to the recent crisis in the financial markets and banking industry. Our credit facility is provided by a syndicate of several financial institutions, with each institution agreeing severally, and not jointly, to make revolving credit loans to us in accordance with the terms of the credit agreement. If one or more of these financial institutions were to default on its obligation to fund its commitment, the portion of the credit facility provided by such defaulting financial institution would not be available to us. We may seek to raise any needed or desired additional capital from the proceeds of public or private equity or debt offerings at the holding company level or at the subsidiary level or both, through asset or business sales, from traditional credit financings or from other financing sources. Our ability to obtain additional capital when needed or desired will depend on many factors, including market conditions, our operating performance and investor sentiment, and thus cannot be assured. In addition, depending on how it is structured, raising capital could require the consent of our lenders. Even if we are able to raise additional capital, the terms of any financing could be adverse to the interests of our stockholders. For example, the terms of a debt financing could include covenants that restrict our ability to operate our business or to expand our operations, while the terms of an equity financing, involving the issuance of capital stock or of securities convertible into capital stock, could dilute the percentage ownership interests of our stockholders, and the new capital stock or other new securities could have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our current stockholders. We cannot provide any assurance that sufficient additional funds will be available to us when needed or desired or that, if available, such funds can be obtained on terms favorable to us and our stockholders and acceptable to our lending group, if its consent is required. Our inability to obtain sufficient additional capital on a timely basis on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Restrictions imposed on us by the terms of our credit facility limit how we conduct our business and our ability to raise additional capital. The terms of our credit facility contain financial and operating covenants that place restrictions on our activities and limit the discretion of our management. These covenants place significant restrictions on our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • allow our cash position to fall below certain limits; • create liens or other encumbrances; • issue or redeem our securities; • make dividend payments, stock repurchases and investments; • incur capital expenditures above certain limits; • amend our charter documents; • sell or otherwise dispose of our or our subsidiaries’ stock or assets; • liquidate or dissolve; • make acquisitions above certain limits; or • reorganize, recapitalize or engage in a similar business transaction. 25 Table of Contents Any future financing arrangements will likely contain similar or more restrictive covenants. As a result of these restrictions, we may be: • limited in how we conduct our business; • unable to raise additional capital, through debt or equity financings, when needed for our operations and growth; and • unable to compete effectively, make desired acquisitions or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The need to comply with the terms of our debt obligations may also limit our ability to obtain additional financing and our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business. If, as a result of these covenants, we are unable to pursue a favorable transaction or course of action or to respond to an unfavorable event, condition or circumstance, then our business could be materially and adversely affected. From time to time, a large portion of our revenues and operating results are driven by significant purchase commitments from one or a few customers, and if we do not continue to receive additional significant purchase commitments in the future from those or other customers, our revenues and operating results could be adversely affected. From time to time, we have certain customers that account for a large portion of our consolidated revenues during a year, and we receive other significant, non-recurring purchase orders from other customers. See “Item 1. Business—Customers” above. For example, from 2006 though 2008, we derived a significant portion of our revenues from one customer, Publix, the revenues from which constituted a range of 33% to 47% of our consolidated revenues during those years. However, by the end of 2008 we had completed the majority of the projects we were awarded by Publix, and in 2009 and 2010 revenues from Publix represented only 13% and 8% of our consolidated revenues, respectively. While we have been diversifying our markets and customer base in order to reduce our dependence on any one or small group of customers in the future, there is no assurance we will be successful in diversifying our business or obtaining additional significant purchase commitments from other customers to replace work that has been completed. If we are unable to obtain additional significant purchase orders in the future and to otherwise diversify and expand our customer base, our revenues and net income in future periods could be adversely affected. Our success will depend on our continued ability to develop new relationships and to maintain beneficial relationships with our current utility partners and with significant customers and to generate project-based and recurring revenues from those relationships. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to attract additional large customer orders in the future to replace revenues from large customer orders in prior years, or that our existing customers will continue to purchase our products and services in future years in the same amounts as in prior years. Our business and operating results would be adversely affected by: • the loss of one or more large customers; • any cancellation of orders by, or any reduction or delay in sales to, these customers, including actual customer purchases being less than originally expected when we received the project or sales awards; • the failure of large purchase commitments to be renewed or to recur; • delays in timing of future projects with existing and new customers; • our inability to successfully develop relationships with additional customers; or • future price concessions that we may have to make to these customers. We do not have long-term commitments for significant revenues with most of our customers and may be unable to retain existing customers, attract new customers or replace departing customers with new customers that can provide comparable revenues. Because we generally do not obtain firm, long-term volume purchase commitments from our customers, most of our contracts and commitments from our customers are short-term and project-based, although we are focusing on enhancing our long-term commitments through securing additional recurring revenue projects. As long as the majority of our revenues continue to be recognized on a project by project basis, we remain dependent upon securing new contracts in the future in order to sustain and grow our revenues. Accordingly, there is no assurance that our revenues and business will grow in the future. We cannot provide any assurance that our customers will continue to use our products and services or that we will be able to replace, in a timely or effective manner, canceled, delayed or reduced orders with new business that generates comparable revenues. Further, we cannot assure you that our current customers will continue to generate consistent amounts of revenues over time. Our failure to maintain and expand our customer relationships could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Because a significant portion of our backlog consists of non-contractual orders that can be deferred, reduced or cancelled by the customers, our backlog may not be fully recognized or may not result in profits. A significant portion of our backlog is not comprised of firm, non-cancellable orders. Because a significant portion of the orders in our backlog are not based on contracts, they are subject to delay, deferral, reduction or cancellation from time to time by our customers. Such reductions in backlog could significantly reduce the revenue and profit we actually receive from contracts included in backlog. However, we purchase inventory and equipment, and expend labor resources, on these orders in advance of their delivery and completion, which puts us at risk of incurring expenses against which anticipated revenues may be deferred, reduced or even lost. In the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but typically have no contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. In addition, projects may remain in backlog for extended periods of time. All of these uncertainties are heightened as a result of negative economic conditions and their impact on our customers’ spending. Consequently, we cannot assure you that our estimates of backlog are accurate or that we will be able to realize our estimated backlog. Accordingly, if a significant amount of orders are deferred, reduced or cancelled, our financial condition and results of operations, including our revenues, gross margins, net income and cash flow, could be materially and adversely affected. The quality and performance of our products are, in part, dependent on the quality of their component parts that we obtain from various suppliers, as well as the specific design and purpose for which the parts are incorporated into our systems, which makes us susceptible to performance issues that arise from time to time that could materially and adversely affect our business, our financial results and our reputation. From time to time, in the ordinary course of business, we encounter performance issues with component parts that affect the performance of our distributed generation systems, switchgear systems, utility infrastructure products, engines, generators, alternators, breakers, fuel systems, LED and other lighting products, electrical circuit boards, power drivers, and other complex electrical products. While we strive to utilize high quality component parts from reputable suppliers, and to back-up their quality and performance with manufacturers’ warranties, even the best parts and components have performance issues from time to time, and these performance issues create significant financial and operating risks to our business, operations and financial results. Because we regularly develop new products and technical designs, we often incorporate component parts into these new products in configurations, for uses, and in environments, for which limited experience exists and that exposes us to performance risks which may not be covered by warranties. As we strive to bring solutions to customers with unique capabilities that provide performance and cost advantages, from time to time we use new suppliers and new products for applications where a track record of performance does not exist or is difficult to ascertain. Although we believe our suppliers’ warranties cover many of these performance issues, from time to time we face disputes with our suppliers with respect to those performance issues and their warranty obligations. Additionally, the outcome of any warranty claims is inherently difficult to predict due to the uncertainty of technical solutions, cost, customer requirements, and the uncertainty inherent in litigation and disputes generally, and thus there is no assurance we will not be adversely affected by these or other performance issues with key parts and components. Moreover, from time to time performance issues are not covered by manufacturer’s warranties, certain suppliers may not be financially able to fulfill their warranty obligations, and customers may also claim damages as a result of those performance issues. Also, the mere existence of performance issues, even if finally resolved with our suppliers and customers, can have an adverse effect on our reputation for quality, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. We estimate that from time to time we have performance issues related to component parts which have a cost basis of approximately 5-20% of our estimated annual revenues, although not necessarily limited to this amount, which are installed in equipment we own and have sold to various customers across our business lines, and additional performance issues could arise in the future. In addition, the failure or inadequate performance of these components pose potential material and adverse effects on our business, operations, reputation and financial results, including reduced revenues for projects in process or future projects, reduced revenues for recurring revenue contracts which are dependent on the performance of the affected equipment, additional expenses and capital cost to repair or replace the affected equipment, inventory write-offs for defective components held in inventory, asset write-offs for company-owned systems which have been deployed, the cancellation or deferral of contracts by our customers, or claims made by our customers for damages as a result of performance issues. 27 Table of Contents As of the date of this report, we have experienced performance issues with two types of component parts, in particular, that we are working to resolve. One issue involves a supplier of a substantial distributed generation system component that has indicated its warranty does not cover performance issues related to a component from another supplier that is in many of the distributed generation systems deployed for our customers. Another issue involves generators from a certain supplier that have had performance issues in a distributed generation system we own, and for which we have a performance-based recurring revenue contract that is dependent on the system’s positive operating performance. In both of these matters, we are actively working to assess and correct the performance issues, and when possible, we have sought the assistance of the suppliers in resolving these issues. Given that we are in the process of assessing and addressing these performance issues, the uncertainty regarding the assistance we may or may not receive from our suppliers, our track record of repairing many of these types of issues as well as the inherent uncertainty in addressing technical issues specifically and disputes generally, as of the date of this report we are unable to estimate the potential negative impacts from these particular items, if any, in addition to other component part performance issues discussed above. Thus, there is no assurance that we will not be materially adversely affected by performance issues with key parts and components in our systems that arise from time to time. In addition, at this time we have not recorded any adjustment to our warranty reserve for these particular performance issues, other than an immaterial amount for certain minor repairs, as the estimated cost, if any, of fulfilling our warranty obligations for these performance issues within a possible range of outcomes is not determinable at this time. Because our future success depends, in part, upon the success of our recurring revenue project business model, which requires us to make up-front investments in capital for distributed generation equipment and utility infrastructure that we will continue to own, and therefore requires us to incur the risks associated with ownership, if we do not receive substantially all of the benefits anticipated by those projects or if one or more of the risks associated with those projects materializes, then our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. A growing portion of our revenues, cash flow and net income is generated by our recurring revenue projects, in which we install and own distributed generation systems and utility infrastructure and realize recurring revenues derived from regular fees paid by the customer to utilize these assets over a long-term contract, typically five to fifteen years. The revenues from these business arrangements include fixed free contracts, variable fee contracts, and fees which are dependent on the energy cost reductions realized by our customers. While to date recurring revenue projects have constituted only a modest portion of our revenue base, they are growing significantly, and we expect and intend that they will represent a more significant portion of our revenues in the future. The success of these recurring revenue projects is dependent upon our ability to realize the revenues over the life of the contracts and on our ability to manage the costs of those projects. Accordingly, if we do not realize most of the revenues of these recurring revenue projects, or if the costs to operate or maintain these systems increases significantly, including the cost of fuel, or if one or more material risks related to these projects discussed below materializes, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Under these recurring revenue projects, we derive recurring revenues from our customers, which revenue stream enhances the size and dependability of our revenues, cash flow, gross margins and income over the long-term. However, the amount of anticipated recurring revenues and related gross margins and cash flows from these long-term projects are based on a number of assumptions and estimates, including those pertaining to customer demand, energy consumption, energy costs and savings, tariff structures, fuel cost, maintenance cost, our monitoring ability, the quality, reliability and availability of the associated equipment, our capital resources, and the initial and ongoing expenses of the projects. Changes in our estimates or assumptions causing us to fail to realize the benefits of these recurring revenue projects may result in the recurring revenues, gross margins on those revenues and cash flows we receive being substantially less than expected. 28 Table of Contents Moreover, these recurring revenue projects have certain risks associated with them, in addition to the risks associated with our traditional turn-key distributed generation sales, due to our continued ownership of the underlying equipment and the nature of the relationship we have with the customers under these projects. These risks of engaging in recurring revenue projects include the following: • disputes arising with the customer about the project that ultimately results in either the customer requiring us, or in us determining, to remove the equipment from the customer’s site, which could result in a significant loss in revenues and cash flow until the equipment can be re-deployed in a new project or, if the equipment is not re-usable, a significant write-down of our assets; • our inability to receive the intended benefits from the project due to changes associated with the distributed generation model, such as due to changes in tariff structures or customer requirements; • our inability to receive recurring revenues due to customer issues, such as deterioration in the customer’s ability to pay our ongoing fees or a dispute with the customer delaying, deferring or reducing the project fees payable to us, or the closure of the customer’s facility; • the failure of the equipment to properly function and to perform and deliver the intended benefits, which could result in claims by the customer for damages to its equipment, lost revenues and profits or safety issues and in attempts by the customer to cancel the contract related to the project or to refuse or to delay making payments in amounts we believe are due to us under those contracts; • new regulations, or changes in the interpretation of existing regulations, such as those pertaining to air emissions or those relating to the requirements and conditions for the ownership of power generation systems, that could render our projects no longer economically viable, or technically obsolete, or legally impractical; • the costs of operating and maintaining the systems increases significantly, including fuel costs, and maintenance expenses; • damages, payment delays and other issues due to issues with the performance of component parts; • injuries to persons caused by problems or failures of equipment owned by us; and • environmental effects, such as fuel spills, requiring costly and time-consuming remediation efforts and potentially subjecting us to fines and penalties related to environmental requirements and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot provide any assurance that we will realize substantially all the benefits that we expect, or that our business will not face some of the risks, including the risks discussed above, related to these recurring revenue projects, on which we anticipate we will become more dependant in future periods. If we do not receive substantially all of the expected benefits, or if we face one or more significant risks, related to these recurring revenue projects, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We face potential challenges managing our growth to the extent the market continues its strong adoption of LEDs for the general lighting market and for our products in particular. Our potential for growth depends significantly on the adoption of LEDs within the general lighting market, our ability to positively affect this rate of adoption as it relates to our products, and our ability to successfully manage our potential growth of this business. Although LED lighting has grown rapidly in recent years, adoption of LEDs for general lighting is relatively new, still limited and faces significant challenges before it is adopted on a widespread basis. In order to manage our growth and business strategy effectively, we must continue to: • invest in adequate manufacturing facilities and equipment to meet customer demand; • maintain a sufficient supply of raw materials to support our growth; and • invest in research and development, engineering, sales and marketing, technical support, distribution capabilities and administrative functions. While we intend to focus on managing our costs and expenses, over the long term we expect to make investments to support our growth and may have additional unexpected costs. Additionally, such investments take time to become fully operational and productive, and we may not be able to expand quickly enough to exploit targeted market opportunities. There are also inherent execution risks in addressing these new market opportunities that could increase costs and reduce our operating results, including design and cost overruns, poor production process yields and reduced quality control during the start-up phase. 29 Table of Contents The adoption of or changes in government policies, standards or regulations relating to the efficiency, performance or other aspects of LED lighting or changes in government policies, standards or regulations that discourage the use of certain traditional lighting technologies, could impact the demand for our LED products. The adoption of or changes in government policies, standards or regulations relating the efficiency, performance or other aspects of LED lighting may impact the demand for our LED products. For example, the Chinese government recently delayed purchases of LED street and tunnel lighting while developing new standards for the required performance for such lighting products in China. The process resulted in reduced short-term demand for those lighting applications. Demand for our LED products may also be impacted by changes in government policies, standards or regulations that discourage the use of certain traditional lighting technologies. For example, the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 in the United States imposes constraints on the sale of incandescent lights beginning in 2012. These constraints may be eliminated or delayed by legislative action, which could have a negative impact on demand for our LED lighting. If we were to lose the services of one or more of our executive officers, we might not be able to execute our business strategy and our business could be materially and adversely affected. Our future success depends in large part upon the continued service of our executive officers. In particular, we are dependent upon Sidney Hinton, our President and Chief Executive Officer, who is the visionary and leader of our business and who is critical to the overall management of our company as well as to the development of our business, our future growth and performance and our strategic direction. Although we have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers, we have key man life insurance only on Mr. Hinton, and it might not be in an amount sufficient to offset the adverse effects of the loss of his services to us. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers, especially Mr. Hinton, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain key personnel, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We believe our future success and performance depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified leaders for our business units and technical, managerial, sales, marketing, finance and operations personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain these key employees in the future. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although we have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers and the leaders of some of our business units, we generally do not have employment contracts with our other key employees. In addition, we do not have key person life insurance for most of our key personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our current key personnel or that we will be able to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect in the future to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. If we are unable to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Price increases in some of the key components in our products and systems could materially and adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. The prices of some of the key components of our products and systems are subject to fluctuation due to market forces beyond our control. If we incur price increases from our suppliers for key components in our products and systems or from our contractors, we may not be able to pass all of those price increases on to our customers in the form of higher sales prices, which would adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. For example, most of our revenues in recent years have been generated from fixed price distributed generation projects, and increases in the prices of key components in those projects, such as generators, diesel fuel, copper, aluminum and labor, would increase our operating costs and, accordingly, reduce our margins in those projects. Although we intend to adjust the pricing on future projects based upon long-term changes in the prices of these components, we generally cannot pass on short-term price increases on fixed priced projects, and we may not be able to pass on all long-term price increases. Such price increases could occur from time to time due to spot shortages of commodities or labor, longer-term shortages due to market forces beyond our control or exchange rate fluctuations. An increase in our operating costs due to price increases from these components causing a reduction in our margins could materially and adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and cash flows. 30 Table of Contents We depend on sole source and limited source suppliers for some of the key components and materials in our products and systems, which makes us susceptible to supply shortages or price increases that could materially and adversely affect our business. We depend upon sole source and limited source suppliers for some of the key components and materials that we use in our products and systems. If we experience delays in receiving these components or parts, we will not be able to deliver our products and systems to our customers on a timely basis, which could defer revenue and income recognition, cause the cancellation or reduction of some projects and contracts or cause us to incur financial penalties. Also, we cannot guarantee that any of the parts or components that we purchase, if available at all, will be of adequate quality or that the prices we pay for these parts or components will not increase. For example, we are dependent upon obtaining a timely and cost-effective supply of generators for our distributed generation business, but from time to time these generators are in short supply, affecting the timing of our performance and cost of the generators. From time to time we may experience delays in production because the supply of one or more critical components is interrupted or reduced, or because of malfunctions or failures of key components, or we may experience significant increases in the cost of such components. If any of those events occurs and we have failed to identify an alternative vendor, then we may be unable to meet our contractual obligations and customer expectations, which could damage our reputation and result in lost customers and sales, or we may incur higher than expected expenses, either of which could materially and adversely affect our business, operations and results of operations. Our business is subject to the risk of changes in utility tariff structures, which changes could materially and adversely affect our business as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is dependent, in part, upon our ability to utilize distributed generation systems to create favorable pricing for customers based on utility tariff structures. If utility tariffs change in some regions, then our business would become less viable in those regions. Moreover, even if such tariffs do not change, if we are unable to obtain the expected benefits from those tariffs, our revenues and income would be materially and adversely affected. Changes in utility tariffs or our inability to obtain the benefits of tariff structures could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to the risk of changes in environmental requirements, which changes could materially and adversely affect our business as well as our financial condition and results of operations. We presently utilize diesel powered generators in our systems. While these systems can be modified to utilize a blend of natural gas and diesel, and can also utilize biodiesel, diesel is the primarily fuel utilized across our fleet of systems. If regulatory requirements in the business regions of our customers are modified to unfavorably affect the utilization of diesel for generation, or require the diesel to have certain properties that impacts the operation of our distributed generation systems or their cost, then our business could be materially and adversely affected. While, in such case, we would utilize our best efforts to find alternative power sources, there is no assurance those alternative sources would be economically acceptable. Thus, unfavorable changes to such regulatory environmental requirements could materially and adversely affect our business as well as our financial condition and results of operations. In some of our project-based distributed generation system sales, the contracts with our customers have long-term performance requirements that subject us to risks. In some of our project-based distributed generation system sales, the contracts with our customers have long-term performance requirements that we are responsible for, and these projects subject us to risks due to our obligations under those contracts. For example, in some cases, we are responsible for the full maintenance on the generators and switchgear during the term of the contract, but the reserves we have set aside may not be sufficient to cover our maintenance obligations, and the maintenance package we have purchased designed to cover maintenance on the generators may not be adequate. In addition, changes in circumstances that were not contemplated at the time of the contract could expose us to unanticipated risks or to protracted or costly dispute resolution. Utility companies or governmental entities could place barriers to our entry into the marketplace that could adversely affect our business. Utility companies or governmental entities could place barriers on the installation of our products or the interconnection of our distributed generation systems with the electric grid. Further, they could charge additional fees to our customers for installing distributed generation. These types of restrictions, fees or charges could impair our ability to sell our distributed generation systems, or the ability of our customers to effectively use our systems, or they could increase the costs of operating our systems. This could make our distributed generation systems less desirable, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 31 Table of Contents We could become subject to burdensome government regulation that affects our ability to offer our products and services or that affects demand for our products and services. Our business operations are subject to varying degrees of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. For example, our products, services and technologies are subject to government oversight and regulation under federal, state and local ordinances relating to emissions, building codes, public safety regulations pertaining to electrical connections, security protocols and local and state licensing requirements. Regulatory agencies may impose special requirements for the implementation and operation of our products, services or technology that may significantly impact or even eliminate some of our target markets. We may incur material costs or liabilities in complying with government regulations. In addition, potentially significant laws, regulations and requirements may be adopted or imposed in the future. For example, our recurring revenue projects could be materially and adversely affected by new laws or regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, that would ban the ownership of power generation by a third party, such as us. Furthermore, some of our customers must comply with numerous laws and regulations. In February 2009, Congress adopted a stimulus package entitled the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, commonly referred to as ARRA. ARRA provides funding for various energy projects and directly impacts alternative generation technologies, renewable energy requirements, environmental restrictions and costs and incentives to invest in the electric grid in the United States. While some of the measures, requirements, benefits and funding in this legislation directly and indirectly benefit our business, our customers and our utility partners, other aspects of ARRA benefit our competitors and competitive technologies. Currently, ARRA is not materially impacting our business. However, changes in priorities, spending approvals or beneficiaries of ARRA could impact our business in a more significant manner in the future. The modification or adoption of future laws and regulations could adversely affect our business, cause us to modify or alter our methods of operations and increase our costs and the price of our products, services and technology. In addition, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able, for financial or other reasons, to comply with all applicable laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could become subject to substantial penalties or restrictions that could materially and adversely affect our business. We may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial or reputational impacts relating to occupational health and safety matters and other accident and safety risks and hazards that are inherent in energy operations. Portions of our operations are subject to many hazards and risks inherent in the servicing and operation of electrical power lines and production water disposal sites, including encountering unexpected electrical charges, fires, natural disasters, blowouts, cratering and pipeline ruptures. For example, our WaterSecure operations suffered fires in 2008 that resulted in personal injuries, damages to property and the loss of revenues, net income and cash flow due to business interruption, and increased operating expenses due to enhanced safety measures implemented. Additionally, we face risks related to the manufacture, installation, sale, servicing and operation of electrical equipment such as our distributed generation system equipment and utility infrastructure construction, maintenance and service work, including electric shocks and other physical hazards inherent in working with electrical equipment. These hazards and risks could result in personal injuries, loss of life, environmental damage and other damage to our properties and the properties of others and other consequential damages, and could lead to the suspension of certain of our operations, large damage claims, damage to our safety reputation and loss of business. While we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in our occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. Although we have taken what we believe are appropriate precautions, we have suffered accidents in the past and may suffer additional accidents in the future. Serious accidents could result in losses to us as the result of fatalities, personal injuries, damage to property and business interruption, some of which could occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or could exceed our insurance coverage. In addition, the risks inherent in our business are such that we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at reasonable rates. If our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time or we were to suffer substantial penalties or criminal prosecution for violation of health and safety regulations, our customers could cancel our contracts and not award us future business. Therefore, the occurrence of a significant accident, or other risk event or hazard, that is not fully covered by insurance could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results, and even if fully covered by insurance could materially and adversely affect our business due to the impact on our reputation for safety. 32 Table of Contents Because many of our businesses and our product offerings have limited histories and their business strategies are still being developed, their markets may be limited and concentrated, and limited information is available to evaluate their future prospects. Our business strategy includes the development and expansion of new businesses and product lines from time to time. Examples of recent new product offerings and those in development include our LED-based street lights being developed by our Energy Efficiency business unit, our PowerPackages medium speed engine business that we acquired in 2009, our new SmartStation and micro-grid products, and new engine and generator technologies. Our plans and strategies with respect to these new businesses and product offerings are often based on limited histories and market information and are continually being modified as we seek to maximize their potential. In addition, our new businesses generally have a limited number of customers, and our future success depends in large part upon our ability to expand our customer base and to enhance and develop our products and services in these new businesses so that they will generate significant revenues, profits and cash flow. As a company developing new businesses in the rapidly evolving energy and technology markets, we face numerous risks and uncertainties that are described in this item as well as other parts of this report. Some of these risks relate to our ability to: • anticipate, adapt and influence the changing regulatory climate for energy and technology products, services and technology; • provide new products and services at price points that deliver economic benefits to our customers and to us; • expand our customer base in our new businesses; • anticipate and adapt to the changing energy markets and customer preferences; • attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel and leaders for these new businesses; • respond to actions taken by our competitors; • integrate acquired businesses, technologies, products and services; • generate revenues, gross margins, cash flow and profits from sales of new products and services; and • implement effective marketing strategies to promote awareness of our new businesses, products and services. Our business and financial results in the future will depend heavily on the market acceptance and profitability of our new businesses and these new product and service offerings. If we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks or in executing our business strategies, or if our business model fails or is invalid, then our business could be materially and adversely affected. Changes in our product mix can materially and adversely affect our business. The margins on our revenues from some of our product and service offerings are higher than the margins on other product and service offerings. For example, the operating margins we obtain on recurring revenue contracts are generally higher than the margins we obtain on project-based sales. Additionally, our margins fluctuate from project to project, depending on the project’s scope, technical specifications, and materials and labor costs, among other factors. Our margins can also fluctuate based upon competition, alternative products and services, operating costs, tariff systems and contractual factors. In addition, we cannot currently accurately estimate the margins of some of our new and developing products and services due to their limited operating history. Our new products and services may have lower margins than our current products and services. If in the future we derive a proportionately greater percentage of our revenues from lower margin products and services, then our overall margins on our total revenues will decrease and, accordingly, will result in lower profits and less cash flow on the same amount of revenues. 33 Table of Contents We are subject to lawsuits, claims and proceedings from time to time, and in the future we could become subject to new proceedings, and if any of those proceedings are material and are successfully prosecuted against us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. From time to time, we are involved in a variety of claims, suits, investigations, proceedings and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of our business, including actions with respect to labor and employment, taxes, breach of contract, property damage and other matters. For example, from time to time, we are involved in disputes relating to the scope of our services, or services that we receive from our vendors, and charges or fees relating to those services. These disputes have historically been limited in number and dollar amount and, in the opinion of management, based upon current information, no currently pending or overtly threatened claim is expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, our historical experience is not necessarily indicative of the number or dollar amount of future disputes or claims, and the ultimate outcome of these types of matters cannot be accurately predicted due to the inherent uncertainty of litigation. We have vigorously defended all claims against us in the past, and intend to continue to do so in the future. However, even if we are successful on the merits, any pending or future lawsuits, claims or proceedings could be time-consuming and expensive to defend or settle and could result in the diversion of significant management time and operational resources, which could materially and adversely affect us. In addition, it is possible that an unfavorable resolution of one or more such disputes, claims or proceedings could in the future materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We extend product warranties which could adversely affect our operating results. We provide a standard one year warranty for our distributed generation, switchgear, and utility infrastructure equipment and a five year warranty for our LED lighting products. In certain cases, we offer extended warranty terms for those product lines. We reserve for the estimated cost of product warranties when revenue is recognized, and we evaluate our warranty reserves periodically by reviewing our warranty repair experience. While we engage in product quality programs and processes, including monitoring and evaluating the quality of our components suppliers and instituting methods to remotely detect and correct failures, our warranty obligation is affected by actual product failure rates, parts and equipment costs and service labor costs incurred in correcting a product failure. Our warranty reserves may be inadequate due to undetected product defects, unanticipated component failures, or changes in estimates for material, labor and other costs we may incur to replace projected product failures. As a result, if actual product failure rates, parts and equipment costs, or service labor costs exceed our estimates, our operating results could be adversely impacted. Because we are dependent upon the utility industry for a growing portion of our revenues, reductions or deferrals of purchases of our products and services by utilities or their customers could materially and adversely affect our business. One of our marketing approaches involves partnering with utilities and selling our products and services to their large commercial, institutional, federal and industrial customers. We have generated a significant portion of our revenues using this approach. However, the purchasing patterns of these customers are cyclical and generally characterized by long budgeting, purchasing and regulatory processes. These customers typically issue requests for quotes and proposals, establish committees to evaluate the purchase proposals, review different technical options with vendors, analyze performance and cost/benefit justifications and perform a regulatory review, in addition to applying budgetary approval processes and operational and financial justifications. In addition, utilities and their customers may defer purchases of our products and services if the utilities reduce capital expenditures as the result of the currently difficult economic and financial market conditions, mergers and acquisitions, pending or unfavorable regulatory decisions, poor revenues due to weather conditions, rising interest rates or general economic downturns, among other factors. These unfavorable conditions could reduce the demand for our products and services and materially and adversely affect our business. 34 Table of Contents Consolidation in our customer base and utility relationships generates risks that could adversely affect our business. From time to time industry consolidation can occur and impact our customers and potential customers, as well as our utility relationships and potential utility relationships. Industry consolidation has the potential to impact virtually every area of our business. In each of our businesses, industry consolidation has the potential to create both positive and negative effects on our business. The risks created by industry consolidation include, but are not limited to, instances where our customers or utility company relationships are purchased by other customers or utilities who: • have vendors other than us from which they prefer to source our products and services; • seek to reduce the prices they pay for our products and services; • have not adopted our methodologies and technology; • impact organizational structures and personnel such that our relationships are negatively affected; or • in the case of utilities, the consolidation leads to changes in tariff structures that are unfavorable to our business. Many of our products and services experience long and variable sales cycles, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations for any given quarter or year. Purchases of our products and services are usually significant financial investments for our customers and are used by our customers to address important and complex business needs. Customers generally consider a wide range of issues before making a decision to purchase our products and services. Before customers commit to purchase our products, they often require a significant technical review, assessment of competitive products and approval at a number of management levels within their organization. Our sales cycle may vary based on the industry in which the potential customer operates and is difficult to predict for any particular transaction. The length and variability of our sales cycle makes it difficult to predict whether particular sales commitments will be received in any given quarter. During the time our customers are evaluating our products and services, we may incur substantial sales and marketing and research and development expenses to customize our products to the customer’s needs. We may also expend significant management efforts, increase manufacturing capacity, hire employees, purchase or lease equipment, order long-lead-time components or purchase significant amounts of inventory prior to receiving an order. Even after this evaluation process, a potential customer may not purchase our products. As a result, these long sales cycles may cause us to incur significant expenses without receiving revenue to offset those expenses. If we are unable to develop new and enhanced products and services that achieve market acceptance in a timely manner, our operating results and competitive position could be harmed. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new and enhanced products and services that achieve market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner. The markets in which our businesses operate are characterized by frequent introductions of new and enhanced products and services, evolving industry standards and regulatory requirements, government incentives and changes in customer needs. The successful development and market acceptance of our products and services depends on a number of factors, including: • the changing requirements and preferences of the potential customers in our markets; • the accurate prediction of market requirements, including regulatory issues; • the timely completion and introduction of new products and services; • the quality, price and performance of new products and services; • the availability, quality, price and performance of competing products, services and technologies; • our customer service and support capabilities and responsiveness; • the successful development of our relationships with existing and potential customers; and • changes in industry standards. We may experience financial or technical difficulties or limitations that could prevent us from introducing new or enhanced products or services. Furthermore, any of these new or enhanced products and services could contain problems that are discovered after they are introduced. We may need to significantly modify the design of these products and services to correct problems. Rapidly changing industry standards and customer preferences and requirements may impede market acceptance of our products and services. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if we experience difficulties in introducing new or enhanced services and products or if these products and services are not received favorably by our customers. 35 Table of Contents Development and enhancement of our products and services will require significant additional expenses and could strain our management, financial and operational resources. The lack of market acceptance of our products or services or our inability to generate sufficient revenues from this development or enhancements to offset their costs could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we may experience delays or other problems in releasing new products and services and enhancements, these delays or problems may cause customers to forego purchases of our products and services to purchase those of our competitors. We cannot provide assurance that products and services that we have recently developed or that we develop in the future will achieve market acceptance. If our new products and services fail to achieve market acceptance, or if we fail to develop new or enhanced products and services that achieve market acceptance, our growth prospects, operating results and competitive position could be adversely affected. Rapid technological changes may prevent us from remaining current with our technological resources and maintaining competitive product and service offerings. The markets in which our businesses operate are characterized by rapid technological change. Significant technological changes could render our existing and planned new products, services and technology obsolete. Our future success will depend, in large part, upon our ability to: • effectively use and develop leading technologies; • continue to develop our technical expertise; • enhance our current products and services with new, improved and competitive technology; and • respond to technological changes in a cost-effective manner. If we are unable to successfully respond to technological change or if we do not respond to it in a cost-effective manner, then our business will be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in responding to changing technology. In addition, technologies developed by others may render our products, services and technology uncompetitive or obsolete. Even if we do successfully respond to technological advances, the integration of new technology may require substantial time and expense, and we cannot assure you that we will succeed in adapting our products, services and technology in a timely and cost-effective manner. Failures in the integrity of our current systems and future system upgrades could materially affect our business performance and our ability to accurately and timely report our financial results. Our ability to generate accurate and timely financial information for management reporting and public reporting purposes is dependent on the integrity and stability of our current financial systems and upgrades to our systems. This includes our financial and operational systems and underlying processes. Disruptions in our systems integrity could lead to operational issues and inefficiencies in our business which could be material. Our significant growth requires that we upgrade our financial systems from time to time, and we expect financial system upgrades will improve our financial operations when complete, but transitional issues could occur during the upgrade process which could adversely impact our performance as well as the integrity or timing of our financial results. We face intense competition in the markets for our products, services and technology, and if we cannot successfully compete in those markets, our business could be materially and adversely affected. The markets for our products, services and technology are intensely competitive and subject to rapidly changing technology, new competing products and services, frequent performance improvements and evolving industry standards. The markets for energy solutions are fragmented. We compete against traditional supply-side resources as well as against solutions offered by utilities and competitive electricity suppliers. We expect the intensity of competition to increase in the future because the growth potential and deregulatory environment of the energy market have attracted and are anticipated to continue to attract many new competitors, including new businesses as well as established businesses from different industries. In addition, the economic downturn has resulted in supply-side imbalances in some of our markets. As a result of increased competition, we may have to reduce the price of our products and services, and we may experience reduced gross margins and loss of market share, which could significantly reduce our future revenues and operating results. 36 Table of Contents Many of our existing competitors, as well as many potential new competitors, have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, manufacturing and other resources than we do. This may enable our competitors to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or preferences and to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services than we can. Our competitors may be able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and make more attractive offers to potential employees, customers, strategic partners and suppliers and vendors than we can. Our competitors may develop products and services that are equal or superior to the products and services offered by us or that achieve greater market acceptance than our products do. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to improve their ability to address the needs of our existing and prospective customers. As a result, it is possible that new competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share or impede our ability to acquire market share in new markets. We cannot assure you that we will have the financial resources, technical expertise, portfolio of products and services or marketing and support capabilities to compete successfully in the future. Our inability to compete successfully or to timely respond to market demands or changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, conditions and results of operations. If we fail to effectively manage our operations as we grow, our ability to sell our products and services and to provide quality customer service may be adversely affected. As our revenues have grown, our business operations and number of employees have grown significantly in recent years to drive and support the growth in our business. Notwithstanding the current negative effects of the recent difficult economic and financial market conditions on our recent operating results, we anticipate our business will grow over the long-term, especially as we expand into new lines of business and new geographic areas. This growth could place a significant strain on our management and operational resources, including our ability to timely and cost-effectively satisfy our customers’ demand requirements. We must plan and manage our resources effectively in order to continue to offer quality and successful products and services and to achieve revenue growth and profitability in rapidly evolving markets. If we are not able to effectively manage our long-term growth in the future, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our investment in and management of the water processing business held by our WaterSecure operations presents risks to us. WaterSecure is our subsidiary that manages and holds a significant minority ownership interest in the WaterSecure operations, a private business that owns and operates natural gas production water disposal facilities. While WaterSecure does not intend to form any new businesses of this type, it may from time to time increase its economic interest in this business or initiate or manage actions intended to expand the business’s assets or activities. Our investment in and management of this business presents risks to us, including: • potential material adverse changes in the business, results of operations and financial condition of the WaterSecure operations due to events, conditions and factors outside of our control, such as changes in the price of oil and other general and local conditions affecting the oil and gas market generally, which could reduce the revenues, net income and cash flows of the business and, because we record equity income and receive cash distributions from the business based upon its financial results and available cash, adversely affect our financial results and cash flow; • potential new market entrants and competition in the oil and natural gas market generally and the specific oil and natural gas market served by our WaterSecure operations in Colorado, which could adversely affect the financial results of the business and, accordingly, our results of operations; • the hazards of oil production water processing and disposal facilities, including fires, such as the fires that occurred at the facilities in early 2008, that can result in loss of life, personal injuries, damages to facilities that may not be insured, lawsuits by parties that are injured or damaged by those hazards, and the related loss of business, revenues, net income and cash flows; • environmental contamination and the costs associated with fixing any environmental problems and the risk of damages due to such contamination; • lawsuits by minority investors in this business who become dissatisfied with its results or other business actions, transactions, or managerial decisions; • the ability of the business to finance its current and future capital needs; • changes in the regulatory environment relating to the business; • reliance upon significant suppliers and customers by the business; and • changes in technology. If any of these risks materialize and we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 37 Table of Contents We may be unable to acquire other businesses, technologies or companies or engage in other strategic transactions, or to successfully realize the benefits of any such strategic transactions. In the past, in addition to organic growth, we have grown by acquiring complimentary products, services, technologies and businesses and entering into other strategic transactions that have enabled us to increase our product and service offerings, expand our markets and add experienced management. As part of our business strategy, we expect to continue to evaluate and consider potential strategic transactions, including business combinations, acquisitions and strategic alliances, to enhance our existing businesses and to develop new products, services. At any given time we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of these types of transactions, and any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. However, we do not know if we will be able to identify any future opportunities that we believe will be beneficial for us. Even if we are able to identify an appropriate business opportunity, we may not be able to successfully consummate the transaction, and even if we do consummate such a transaction we may be unable to obtain the benefits or avoid the difficulties and risks of such transaction. Any future acquisition involves risks commonly encountered in business relationships, including: • the difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, systems, technologies, products and services of the acquired business; • the technologies, products or businesses that we acquire may not achieve expected levels of revenue, profitability, benefits or productivity; • the difficulties in retaining, training, motivating and integrating key personnel; • the diversion of management’s time and resources away from our normal daily operations; • the difficulties in successfully incorporating licensed or acquired technology and rights into our product and service offerings; • the difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies within the combined organizations; • the difficulties in retaining relationships with customers, employees and suppliers of the acquired business; • the risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience; • potential disruptions to our ongoing businesses; and • unexpected costs and unknown risks and liabilities associated with the acquisition. For these reasons, future acquisitions could materially and adversely affect our existing businesses. Moreover, we cannot predict the accounting treatment of any acquisition, in part because we cannot be certain whether current accounting regulations, conventions or interpretations will prevail in the future. We cannot assure you that we will make any additional acquisitions or that any acquisitions, if made, will be successful, will assist us in the accomplishment of our business strategy, or will generate sufficient revenues to offset the associated costs and other adverse effects or will otherwise result in us receiving the intended benefits of the acquisition. In addition, we cannot assure you that any acquisition of new businesses or technology will lead to the successful development of new or enhanced products and services, or that any new or enhanced products and services, if developed, will achieve market acceptance or prove to be profitable. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, we could lose important proprietary technology, which could materially and adversely affect our business. Our success and ability to compete depends, in substantial part, upon our ability to develop and protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights to distinguish our products, services and technology from those of our competitors. The unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights and proprietary technology by others could materially harm our business. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, along with confidentiality agreements, contractual provisions and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. Although we hold copyrights and trademarks in our business, and we have applied for a patent and the registration of a number of new trademarks and service marks and intend to continue to introduce new trademarks and service marks, we believe that the success of our business depends more upon our proprietary technology, information, processes and know-how than on patents or trademark registrations. In addition, much of our proprietary information and technology may not be patentable. Also, we may not be successful in obtaining any patents or in registering new marks. 38 Table of Contents Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, existing laws afford only limited protection, and our actions may be inadequate to protect our rights or to prevent others from claiming violations of their proprietary rights. Unauthorized third parties may attempt to copy, reverse engineer or otherwise obtain, use or exploit aspects of our products and services, develop similar technology independently, or otherwise obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. We cannot assure you that our competitors will not independently develop technology similar or superior to our technology or design around our intellectual property. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights as fully or in the same manner as the laws of the United States. We may need to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, and to determine the validity and scope of other companies’ proprietary rights in the future. However, litigation could result in significant costs or in the diversion of management and financial resources. We cannot assure you that any such litigation will be successful or that we will prevail over counterclaims against us. Our failure to protect any of our important intellectual property rights or any litigation that we resort to in order to enforce those rights could materially and adversely affect our business. If we face claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties, we could encounter expensive litigation, be liable for significant damages or incur restrictions on our ability to sell our products and services. Although we are not aware of any present infringement of our products, services or technology on the intellectual property rights of others, we cannot be certain that our products, services and technologies do not or in the future will not infringe on the valid intellectual property rights held by third parties. In addition, we cannot assure you that third parties will not claim that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. In recent years, there has been a significant amount of litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. In the future, we may be a party to litigation as a result of an alleged infringement of others’ intellectual property. Successful infringement claims against us could result in substantial monetary liability, require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, or otherwise materially disrupt the conduct of our business. In addition, even if we prevail on these claims, this litigation could be time-consuming and expensive to defend or settle, and could result in the diversion of our time and attention and of operational resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling, incorporating or using our products and services that use the infringed intellectual property; • obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all; or • redesign the products and services that use the technology. If we are forced to take any of these actions, our business may be seriously harmed. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. As discussed in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies” and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in this report, a significant portion of our revenues is recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. In applying the percentage-of-completion method to our distributed generation turn-key projects, we have identified the key output project phases that are standard components of these projects. We have further identified, based on past experience, an estimate of the value of each of these output phases based on a combination of costs incurred and the value added to the overall construction project. While the order of these phases varies depending on the project, each of these output phases is necessary to complete each project and each phase is an integral part of the turn-key product solution we deliver to our customers. We use these output phases and percentages to measure our progress toward completion of our construction projects. For each reporting period, the status of each project, by phase, is determined by employees who are managers of or are otherwise directly involved with the construction project and is reviewed by our accounting personnel. Utilizing this information, we recognize project revenues (and associated project costs) and gross profit based on the percentage associated with output phases that are complete or in process on each of our projects. 39 Table of Contents In applying the percentage-of-completion method to our utility infrastructure projects, revenues and gross profit are recognized as work is performed based on the relationship between actual costs incurred and total estimated costs at completion. In all cases where we utilize the percentage-of-completion, revenues and gross profit are adjusted prospectively for revisions in estimated total contract costs and contract values. Estimated losses, if any, are recorded when identified. Because the percentage-of-completion method of accounting relies upon estimates described above, recognized revenues and profits are subject to revision as a project progresses to completion. Revisions in profit estimates are charged to income in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known. In the event we were required to adjust any particular project’s estimated revenues or costs, the effect on the current period earnings may be significant. If, however, conditions arise that requires us to adjust our estimated revenues or costs for a series of similar construction projects, the effect on current period earnings would more likely be significant. In addition, certain contracts provide for cancellation provisions prior to completion of a project. The cancellation provisions generally provide for payment of costs incurred, but may result in an adjustment to profit already recognized in a prior period. When we become unable to use existing net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes, either because we exhaust them or because we lose the ability to use them for any reason, we would face exposure to significant tax liabilities in the future, adversely affecting our net income and cash flow. We recorded taxable income since 2005, other than in 2009 when we recorded a taxable loss primarily as a result of utilizing bonus deprecation of current year acquisitions of equipment, and expect to continue to report taxable income in the future. We have been able to offset a substantial amount of our taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes by utilizing our net operating loss carryforwards, which we refer to as NOLs, and intend to continue to do so in the future. As of December 31, 2010, our available federal NOLs were approximately $25.8 million, none of which expire over the next three years. When our aggregate future net income, for federal income tax purposes, exceeds the amount of our available NOLs, we will commence incurring liability for federal income taxes, which will adversely affect our net income, cash flow and available cash resources compared to previous periods during which we were able to utilize our NOLs. In addition, our ability to utilize these NOLs is subject to significant conditions and restrictions. If we fail to meet these conditions and restrictions, we may be unable to fully utilize some or all of these NOLs. For example, the use of our NOLs is limited under the alternative minimum tax provisions of the U.S. federal income tax, as a result of which we have recorded and paid U.S. federal income taxes in the last three years. Other limitations imposed on our ability to use NOLs to offset future taxable income could cause us to pay U.S. federal income taxes earlier than we otherwise would if such limitations were not in effect, adversely affecting our future net income and cash flow. For example, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” for U.S. federal income tax purposes is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its NOLs to offset future taxable income. A corporation generally undergoes an “ownership change” when the ownership of its stock, by value, changes by more than 50 percentage points over any three year period. Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes as well. We may have tax expense exposure that is greater than anticipated in our estimated tax liabilities. The determination of our provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation and significant judgment, but there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our determination of our tax liability is always subject to review by applicable taxing authorities, and we are from time to time subject to audits and examinations by the Internal Revenue Service and by state and local tax authorities. Any adverse outcome from these audits or examinations could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. We regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these audits and examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome of any tax audits may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. 40 Table of Contents Changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our future effective tax rates may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: • changes in government administrations, such as at the Federal level in the United States, as well as at the state level and in other countries in which we may from time to time operate; • changes in tax laws or interpretation of such tax laws and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; • the jurisdiction in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; • the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various authorities; • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; • increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; • changes in available tax credits; and • the recognition and measurement of uncertain tax positions. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact net income for future periods. In addition, the determination of our income tax provision requires complex estimations, significant judgments and significant knowledge and experience concerning the applicable tax laws. To the extent our income tax liability materially differs from our income tax provisions and accruals due to factors, including the above, which were not anticipated at the time we estimated our tax provision, our net income or cash flows could be adversely affected. We are subject to the risks of owning real property. We own real property, including the land and building constituting our principal executive offices. The ownership of real property subjects us to risks, including: • the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with fixing any environmental problems and the risk of damages resulting from such contamination; • adverse changes in the value of the property, due to interest rate changes, changes in the neighborhood in which the property is located, or other factors; • ongoing maintenance expenses and costs of improvements; • the possible need for structural improvements in order to complying with zoning, seismic, disability act or other requirements; and • possible disputes with neighboring owners or others. Our current and anticipated future international activities subject us to many legal, business, political and economic risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our operating results if they materialize. We acquire some of our inventory, primarily for our Energy Efficiency business, and we expect to market and sell some of our products and services, in international markets. While virtually none of our sales have been into international markets in recent years, one component of our strategy for future growth involves the expansion of our products and services into new international markets and the expansion of our marketing efforts in our current international markets. This expansion will require significant management attention and financial resources to establish additional offices, hire additional personnel, localize and market products and services in foreign markets and develop relationships with international service providers. Moreover, we acquire a significant amount of our inventory for our Energy Efficiency business from Asian nations. We have very limited experience in international operations, including developing localized versions of our products and services and developing relationships with international service providers. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be successful in developing international operations, or that revenues from international operations will be sufficient to offset these additional costs. If revenues from international operations are not adequate to offset the additional expense from expanding these international operations, our business could be materially and adversely affected. 41 Table of Contents International business activities expose us to many of the risks inherent in conducting business on an international level that could result in increased expenses, or could limit our ability to generate revenues, including: • difficulties in collecting international accounts receivable and longer collection periods; • challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences and by doing business with foreign agencies and governments; • the impact of local economic conditions and practices; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • difficulties in complying with foreign regulatory and commercial requirements; • increased costs associated with maintaining international marketing efforts; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • potential adverse tax consequences; • adverse changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements; • import and export restrictions; • export controls relating to technology; • tariffs, customs and other trade barriers; • political, social and economic instability; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights; • cultural and language difficulties; • natural disasters and public health emergencies; • the potential nationalization of businesses; • shipping costs and delays; • foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating foreign earnings or impair our ability to acquire inventory or transfer assets; and • the localization and translation of products and services. Our success in expanding our international sales activities will depend in large part on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks, many of which are outside of our control. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to successfully market, sell and deliver our products and services in foreign markets. We are subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change. We are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with greenhouse gases, commonly referred to as GHGs, and global climate change. While there is significant controversy and uncertainty over this issue, climate change creates physical and financial risks and uncertainties. Physical risks from climate change could include the risks of an increase in sea level and changes in weather conditions, such as an increase in changes in precipitation and extreme weather events. The possibility of sea level rises could adversely affect our customers in coastal communities. In addition, our potential customers’ energy needs vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity. To the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change, the energy use in our markets could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of the changes. While the effects of increased energy use could enhance the need for our products and services, decreased energy use due to weather changes could adversely affect our business and financial condition, through decreased revenues. In addition, to the extent climate change impacts a region’s economic health, it may also impact our revenues because our financial performance is tied, in part, to the health of the regional economies we serve. To the extent financial markets view climate change and emissions of GHGs as a financial risk, this could negatively affect our ability to access capital markets or cause us to receive less beneficial terms and conditions in future credit financings. Moreover, the potential economic effects of climate change, such as an increase in energy prices, and the potential effect of future legislation aimed at reducing the impact of climate change and lowering emissions could increase the pace of development of alternative energy sources and supplies, and the voluntary reduction in energy use, each of which could reduce the need for distributed generation and utility infrastructure services, adversely affecting our business and operating results. 42 Table of Contents We may be subject to legislative and regulatory responses to climate change, with which compliance could be difficult and costly. Legislative and regulatory responses related to climate change and new interpretations of existing laws through climate change litigation create financial risk. Increased public awareness and concern has resulted in more federal, state and local requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of GHGs. Thus, there is a risk that our distributed generation operations, or other businesses could be subject to regulation under climate change laws at the federal, state or local level in the future, and that any such regulation could be difficult and costly to our business and adversely affect our results of operations. Risks Related to the Ownership of our Shares Our charter documents, as well as certain portions of Delaware law, contain anti-takeover provisions that could discourage or prevent a third-party acquisition of our common stock, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Some provisions in our second restated certificate of incorporation and of our amended and restated by-laws, as well as some provisions of Delaware law, could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a third party from attempting to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to stockholders, including transactions in which investors might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions could also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors in which only approximately one-third of the total board members are elected at each annual meeting; • limitations on the ability of stockholders to change the authorized number of directors or to fill vacancies on the board of directors; • the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors; • provisions permitting a director to be re-elected in an uncontested election even if less than a majority of the shares voted in that election vote in favor of that director; • authority for our board of directors to issue shares of our common stock and of our preferred stock, and to determine the price, voting and other rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of undesignated shares of preferred stock, without any vote by or approval of our stockholders; • super-majority voting requirements to effect material amendments to our second restated certificate and restated by-laws; • a limitation on which persons may call a special meeting of stockholders; • a prohibition on stockholders acting by written consent without a meeting; • a fair price provision that sets minimum price requirements for potential acquirers under certain conditions; • anti-greenmail provisions which limit our ability to repurchase shares of common stock from significant stockholders; • restrictions under Delaware law on mergers and other business combinations between us and any 15% stockholders; and • advance notice requirements for director nominations and for stockholder proposals. In addition, we have entered into employment agreements with most of our executive officers which, among other things, include provisions for severance payments and accelerated vesting of benefits, such as accelerated vesting of restricted stock and stock options, upon a change in control or circumstances after a change in control. 43 Table of Contents Our stockholder rights agreement makes effecting a change of control more difficult, which may discourage offers for shares of our common stock. Our board of directors has adopted an amended and restated rights agreement, which is intended to maximize the value of our shares in a non-negotiated takeover, control bid or other sale context. However, our rights agreement may have the effect of delaying, deterring, or preventing changes in our management or control of us, which may discourage potential acquirers who otherwise might wish to acquire us at a price deemed inadequate by the board, without the consent of the board of directors. Under the rights plan, if a person or group acquires 15% or more of our common stock, all holders of rights (other than the acquiring stockholder) may, upon payment of the purchase price then in effect, purchase common stock having a value of twice the purchase price. In the event that we are involved in a merger or other similar transaction where we are not the surviving corporation, all holders of rights (other than the acquiring stockholder) shall be entitled, upon payment of the then in effect purchase price, to purchase common stock of the surviving corporation having a value of twice the purchase price. The rights will expire on November 30, 2011, unless we extend the term of the rights agreement or we earlier redeem or exchange the rights. We have not in the past and we do not currently intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend on retaining any future earnings to fund our operations and growth and do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future on the common stock. Future dividends, if any, will be determined by our board of directors, based upon our earnings, financial condition, capital resources, capital requirements, charter restrictions, contractual restrictions and such other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. The market for our common stock is volatile and subject to extreme trading price and volume fluctuations. The market price and volume of our common stock has in the past been, and in the future is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. For example, since January 1, 2010, the closing sale price of our common stock has fluctuated from a low of $6.09 to a high of $11.68. The stock market in general, and the market for small cap companies and energy companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years, and these fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. A number of factors could cause wide fluctuations in the market price and trading volume of our common stock to continue in the future, including: • the effects of economic and market conditions on our business and revenues, especially the effects of the recent financial crisis and economic recession, including the length thereof and the timing of and strength of an economic recovery and its effects on our markets, and the volatility and disruption of the capital and the credit markets on the demand for our products, services and technologies; • actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors, or companies that investors consider comparisons to ours; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, significant technical innovations, new products or services, product improvements, significant contracts, strategic relationships or capital commitments; • the receipt, deferral or loss of significant customer orders, including replacing, sustaining and growing revenues from new customers; • the introduction of new products and services by us or by our competitors; • the commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation or other legal or regulatory proceedings; • announcements by us or our competitors about the success or status of business; • conditions or trends in the energy and technology industries in general, and in the particular markets we serve; • potential favorable or unfavorable regulatory and legislative impacts, including provisions and spending which may or may not be included in federal economic stimulus legislation; • changes in revenue or earnings guidance, new business announcements, or our revenue backlog including timing and amounts; • our financing and capital raising activities; 44 Table of Contents • recommendations by securities analysts and their revenue and earnings estimates, including changes thereto; • changes in, or the failure by us to meet, securities analysts’ estimates and expectations; • the lower coverage by securities analysts and the media of smaller issuers like us; • changes in the market valuation of other energy or technology companies; • additions or departures of key personnel; • purchases or sales of our common stock by our directors, executive officers and significant stockholders; and • general economic, business and market conditions. Many of these factors are beyond our control. The occurrence of any one or more of these factors could cause the market price of our common stock to increase or decrease significantly, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, broad fluctuations in price and volume may be unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. Any significant fluctuations in the future might result in a material decline in the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation is often expensive to defend or settle and could divert management’s attention and operational resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, even if we ultimately prevail in the litigation. 45 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 