ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information included and incorporated by reference in this Annual Report, including the risk factors listed below. Any of these risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the trading price of shares of our common stock. Additional risks not currently known or currently material to us may also harm our business. Keep these risk factors in mind when you read forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report and the documents incorporated by reference in this Annual Report. These statements relate to our expectations about future events and time periods. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as "may," "will," "intends," "plans," "believes," "anticipates," "expects," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," "continue" or "opportunity," the negative of these words or words of similar import. Similarly, statements that describe our reserves and our future plans, strategies, intentions, expectations, objectives, goals or prospects are also forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and future events and circumstances could differ significantly from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. 14 From March 2005 through the date that we sold the Commercial and Cardiovascular Assets products in March 2008, we marketed and sold the Cardene IV, Retavase and IV Busulfex commercial products through our U.S. hospital-focused sales force, which focused on the emergency cardiac, neurological and intensive care units of hospitals. Our periodic reports on Form 10-Q and 10-K filed during this period included risk factors related to our marketing and sale of commercial products. Because we closed the sales of these products in March 2008, these risk factors no longer apply to us and do not appear below. We have ended our solicitation of interest in the Company and its assets, other than our humanization royalty stream assets, and undertaken to restructure the Company, which could distract our management and employees, disrupt operations, make more difficult our ability to attract and retain key employees and cause other difficulties. From October 2007 until March 2008, we pursued a process to solicit interest in the purchase of the Company or its key assets, including our commercial and cardiovascular assets and humanization royalty stream assets. In March 2008, we announced that we had ended the process announced on October 1, 2007, and would focus on discovering and developing innovative new antibodies for cancer and immunologic diseases. We also announced that we are evaluating several alternative structures that would, if completed, result in the distribution to our stockholders of 50% or more of the value of future antibody humanization royalties that would be received from currently marketed products. In an effort to reduce operating costs to a level more consistent with a biotechnology company focused solely on antibody discovery and development, in March 2008, we commenced a restructuring pursuant to which we intend to eliminate approximately 250 employment positions over approximately one year. The restructuring will take time to implement and we will need to provide various transition services to Otsuka, EKR and Genmab in connection with our sale of assets to these parties. As a result, we hope to retain during a transition period of less than a year approximately 120 of the 250 employees who will be terminated in connection with our restructuring. We have offered these transition employees and the employees that we expect to retain after the restructuring retention bonuses and other incentives to encourage these employees to stay with the Company. The disruption, anxiety and uncertainty caused by our restructuring could cause employees to seek other employment opportunities notwithstanding the retention incentives we have implemented. The loss of personnel during this period could disrupt operations and adversely impact our ability to perform the transition services we are obligated to perform for Otsuka, EKR and Genmab. This disruption and uncertainty may also make the recruitment of key personnel more difficult. We are currently engaged in a search for a new Chief Executive Officer, and the disruption and uncertainty caused by our restructuring may make such recruitment more difficult. The failure to recruit a new Chief Executive Officer could adversely impact our future performance Our restructuring efforts have and may continue to divert the attention of our management and employees away from our operations, harm our reputation and increase our expenses. We cannot assure you that we will not undertake additional restructuring activities, that any of our restructuring efforts will succeed, or that we will be able to realize the cost savings and other anticipated benefits from our restructuring plans. In addition, employees whose positions we will eliminate in connection with this reduction may seek employment with our competitors. Although all employees are required to sign a confidentiality agreement with us at the time of hire, we cannot assure you that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment. 15 We may not be able to realize revenues based on receipt of contingent consideration from the sale of our Cardiovascular Assets. In March 2008, we sold our Cardiovascular Assets to EKR for $85 million in cash at closing, and up to an additional $85 million in development and sales milestones, as well as royalty payments. Receipt of these milestone and royalty payments is dependent upon certain contingencies, including the receipt of marketing approval from the United States Food and Drug Administration and future net sales. We cannot assure you that these development and sales milestones will be met and that we will be able to receive any of the additional $85 million in milestone payments and any of the royalty payments based on future net sales. We may not be able to consummate the sale of our manufacturing related assets in Minnesota to GMN, Inc. In February 2008, we entered into a definitive agreement with GMN Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Genmab A/S (Genmab), for the sale of our Manufacturing Assets. Consummation of this transaction is subject to certain conditions. These conditions and contingencies include the expiration of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (HSR) and the receipt of consents from third parties, including third parties which have the right to consent to the transfer of contractual rights. We have received early termination of the waiting period under HSR, however, we cannot assure you that the other conditions to close will be met or waived in a timely manner or at all, that the necessary approvals will be obtained, or that we will be able to successfully consummate this transaction as currently contemplated or at all. Any significant delay in obtaining required approvals or satisfying closing conditions, or other developments relating to this transaction, may result in continued uncertainty for our partners and employees, could cause continued distraction to management or could otherwise increase the risk of the planned sale of our Manufacturing Assets not occurring. If this transaction is not consummated, whether as a result of the termination of the agreement or a failure to meet closing conditions: •the market price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price includes a market assumption that this transaction will be completed; •we would remain liable for significant transaction costs, including legal, accounting, financial advisory and other costs relating to these transactions, without receiving the acquisition consideration to offset these costs; •we may experience a negative reaction to the termination of this transaction from our partners or employees, which may adversely impact our future operating results; and •we would not be able to distribute the net proceeds of this sale to our stockholders as currently contemplated. The occurrence of any of these events individually or in combination could have a material effect on our results of operations and our stock price. In addition, if the agreement for the sale of our Manufacturing Assets is terminated, and we seek another buyer or buyers, we may not be able to find a party willing to pay a price as attractive as the price Genmab has agreed to pay. The process of pursuing and implementing multiple significant transactions and transaction structures simultaneously diverts the attention of our management and employees, increases our professional services expenses and may disrupt our operations. The process of pursuing an asset sale and other strategic transactions is generally a time-consuming process for the seller and demands the time and efforts of management and employees 16 during the due diligence, negotiation and transition processes, including management presentations and discussions with and document production to potential buyers, the evaluation of bids from potential buyers, review of alternative structures and, when a transaction is pursued, the negotiation of agreements. In addition, once completed, asset sale transactions may require a substantial transition effort, with significant on-going management efforts. The demands of this process tend to be compounded in an auction process in which a seller is interacting with multiple bidders simultaneously. The process we have undertaken entails our pursuing multiple strategic transactions simultaneously, including the sale or other monetization of our humanization royalty stream assets in an auction process. We have closed two of these transactions, the sale of IV Busulfex product related rights to Otsuka, and the sale of the Cardiovascular Assets to EKR and are in the process of completing the sale of our Manufacturing Assets to Genmab, and we will have ongoing, post-closing transition obligations to each of these parties. The diversion of our management's and employees' attention to these processes may disrupt our operations, including by adversely impacting the progress of our discovery and development efforts and our relationships with partners. We have increased our expenditures for professional services in connection with our pursuit of offers for the sale of our entire Company or of our key assets, including for legal and accounting services, and we will also be obligated to pay investment banking fees upon the completion of certain transactions we have executed or may execute. We may not implement a structure to distribute to our stockholders the value of our antibody humanization patent royalty stream received from currently marketed licensed products. The form, size and timing of any royalty-related distribution is uncertain and the conclusion of any transaction or structure leading to such a distribution would be subject to numerous conditions including potential negotiation with third parties, market conditions and determination of the final form, which could include, among others, a sale of the right to future royalties, a securitization of future royalties, or a distribution to stockholders of securities related to the royalty stream. We may not be able to implement a structure relating to our antibody humanization patent royalty stream on terms acceptable to us, or at all. The consummation of any transaction or structure relating to the royalty stream, even if on acceptable terms, could be adversely impacted or prevented by failure to satisfy closing conditions or regulatory delays. We have a history of operating losses and may not achieve sustained profitability. In general, our expenses have exceeded our revenues. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $591.3 million. We expect our operating expenses in the near term to decrease significantly relative to expense levels during 2005 to 2007 because we have divested the Commercial and Cardiovascular Assets we formerly held and have undertaken a significant restructuring and reduction in force. We will, however, incur a significant amount of restructuring costs through 2008, including severance payments to terminated employees and additional costs, including retention incentives to retained employees. After these divestitures and our restructuring are complete, operating expenses may increase on average if we are successful in advancing potential products in clinical trials primarily because of the extensive resource commitments required to achieve regulatory approval. Since we or our partners or licensees may not successfully develop additional products, obtain required regulatory approvals, manufacture products at an acceptable cost or with appropriate quality, or successfully market such products with desired margins, our expenses may continue to exceed our revenues. Our commitment of resources to the continued development of our products will require significant additional funds for development. Our operating expenses may also increase as: •our earlier stage potential products move into later stage clinical development, which is generally a more expensive stage of development; 17 •additional pre-clinical product candidates are selected for further clinical development; •we pursue clinical development of our potential products in new indications; •we increase the number of patents we are prosecuting; •we expend additional resources to defend our patents; •we invest in research or acquire additional technologies, product candidates or businesses; and •we increase our capital expenditures as we improve our research, development and other facilities and as a result also record higher depreciation expenses. In the absence of substantial revenues from licensing and other revenues from third-party collaborators, royalties on sales of products licensed under our intellectual property rights or other sources of revenues, we will continue to incur operating losses and may require additional capital to fully execute our business strategy. The likelihood of reaching and time required to reach sustained profitability are highly uncertain. Our revenues, expenses and operating results will likely fluctuate in future periods. Our revenues and revenue growth have varied in the past and will likely continue to fluctuate considerably from quarter to quarter and from year to year. As a result, our revenues in any period may not be predictive of revenues in any subsequent period. In particular, because we have divested our Commercial and Cardiovascular Assets, sales of which constituted 40% and 44% of our total revenues (including discontinued operations) in 2006 and 2007, respectively, we expect our revenues to decline significantly in the near term. We are also actively evaluating structures that would result in the distribution to our stockholders of 50% or more of the value of future antibody humanization royalties to be received from currently marketed products. Our humanization royalty stream assets constituted 74% and 85% of our revenues from continuing operations in 2006 and 2007, respectively. In addition, our royalty revenues, even after any potential transaction, may be unpredictable and fluctuate since they depend upon: •the seasonality and rate of growth of sales of existing and licensed products; •the mix of U.S.-based Sales and ex-U.S.-based Sales in connection with our master patent license agreement with Genentech; •the existence of competing products; •the continued safety of approved licensed products; •the marketing and promotional efforts of our licensees from whom we receive royalty payments; •our ability to successfully defend and enforce our patents; and •the timing of milestone payments, licensing and signing fees and completion of manufacturing, development or other services we must pay or that we may receive under licensing, collaboration and royalty arrangements. We receive a significant portion of our royalty revenues from sales of Synagis, which is marketed by MedImmune. This product has significantly higher sales in the fall and winter, which to date have resulted in much higher royalties paid to us in our first and second quarters than in other quarters. The seasonality of Synagis sales is expected to continue to contribute to fluctuation in our revenues from quarter to quarter. Additionally, our master patent license agreement with Genentech provides for a tiered royalty structure under which the royalty rate Genentech must pay on royalty-bearing products sold in the United States or manufactured in the United States and sold anywhere (U.S.-based Sales) in a given 18 calendar year decreases on incremental U.S.-based Sales above several net sales thresholds. As a result, Genentech's average annual royalty rate declines as Genentech's U.S.-based Sales increase. Because we receive royalties in arrears, the average royalty rate for the payments we receive from Genentech in the second calendar quarter—which would be for Genentech's sales from the first calendar quarter—is higher than the average royalty rate for following quarters and is lowest in the first calendar quarter when more of Genentech's U.S.-based Sales bear royalties at lower royalty rates. The average royalty rate for payments we receive from Genentech is lowest in the first calendar quarter of each year, which would be for Genentech's sales from the fourth calendar quarter from the preceding year, when more of Genentech's U.S.-based Sales bear royalties at lower royalty rates. With respect to Genentech's royalty-bearing products that are both manufactured and sold outside of the United States (ex-U.S.-based Sales), the royalty rate that we receive from Genentech is a fixed rate based on a percentage of the underlying ex-U.S.-based Sales. The mix of U.S.-based Sales and ex-U.S.-based Sales and the manufacturing location has fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate in future periods. The recognition of license, collaboration and other revenues that we otherwise would defer and recognize over a period of time under applicable accounting principles may be accelerated in certain circumstances. For example, if a licensee of ours terminates a development program for which we received an upfront non-refundable fee that required our ongoing performance, the recognition of the revenues would be accelerated and recognized in the period in which the termination occurred. In such a case, it may cause our revenues during that period to be higher than it otherwise would have been had the circumstances not occurred. For example, during the third quarter of 2006 we recognized $18.8 million of deferred revenue, or 17% of the total revenues for that quarter, related to Roche's election in August 2006 to discontinue its co-development of daclizumab in treating asthma and other respiratory diseases. Our expenses may be unpredictable and may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to the timing and the unpredictable nature of clinical trial and related expenses, including payments owed by us and to us under collaborative agreements for reimbursement of expenses and which we record during the quarter in which such expenses are reported to us or to our partners and agreed to by us or our partners. Moreover, the underlying terms of in-licensing and royalty arrangements, especially those with tiered payment structures, will impact the timing of costs and expenses recognized during any particular quarter. In addition, the recognition of clinical trial and other expenses that we otherwise would recognize over a period of time under applicable accounting principles may be accelerated in certain circumstances. In such a case, it may cause our expenses during that period to be higher than they otherwise would have been had the circumstances not occurred. For example, if we terminate a clinical trial for which we paid non-refundable upfront fees to a clinical research organization and in which we did not accrue all of the patient costs, the recognition of the expense associated with those fees that we were recognizing as we accrued patient costs would be accelerated and recognized in the period in which the termination occurred. We face significant competition. We face significant competition from entities with substantially greater resources than we do, more experience in the commercialization and marketing of pharmaceuticals, superior product development capabilities and superior personnel resources. Potential competitors in the United States and other countries include major pharmaceutical and chemical companies, specialized pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions. These entities have developed and are developing human and humanized antibodies or other compounds for treating autoimmune and inflammatory diseases, asthma and cancers and technologies that may compete with our antibody technology platform. These competitors may succeed in more rapidly developing and marketing technologies and products that are more effective than our products or that would render our products or technology obsolete or noncompetitive. Our products may also face significant competition from 19 both brand-name and generic manufacturers that could adversely affect the future sales of our products. Any product that our collaborative partners or we succeed in developing and for which regulatory approval is obtained must then compete for market acceptance and market share. The relative speed with which we and our collaborative partners can develop products, complete the clinical testing and approval processes, and supply commercial quantities of the products to the market compared to competitive companies will affect market success. In addition, the amount of marketing and sales resources and the effectiveness of the marketing used with respect to a product will affect its marketing success. Changes in the U.S. and international health care industry, including regarding reimbursement rates, could adversely affect the commercial value of our development products. The U.S. and international health care industry is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences that may significantly affect the purchasing practices and pricing of pharmaceuticals. The FDA and other health care policies may change, and additional government regulations may be enacted, which could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. Cost containment measures, whether instituted by health care providers or imposed by government health administration regulators or new regulations, could result in greater selectivity in the purchase of drugs. As a result, third-party payers may challenge the price and cost effectiveness of our products. In addition, in many major markets outside the United States, pricing approval is required before sales may commence. As a result, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of approved health care products. We may not be able to obtain or maintain our desired price for the products we develop. Any product we introduce may not be considered cost effective relative to alternative therapies. As a result, adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to obtain or maintain prices sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development, should any of our development products be approved for marketing. Also, the trend towards managed health care in the United States and the concurrent growth of organizations such as health maintenance organizations, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may all result in lower prices, reduced reimbursement levels and diminished markets for our development products. These factors will also affect the products that are marketed by our collaborative partners and licensees. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we might not be permitted to market our future products and our business could suffer. Our humanization patents, which are of significant value to us, are being challenged and a successful challenge or refusal to take a license could limit our future revenues. Our Queen patents are of significant value to us. Royalty revenues received under agreements for the license of rights under our Queen patents accounted for 82% of revenues from continuing operations in 2005, 74% of revenues from continuing operations in 2006 and 85% of revenues from continuing operations in 2007. We are actively evaluating structures that would result in the distribution to our stockholders of 50% or more of the value of future antibody humanization royalties to be received from currently marketed products. We expect that these royalty revenues will constitute the vast majority of our revenues now that we have completed the divestiture of our commercial products. We expect that we will continue to experience aggregate royalty revenue growth based on the assumed continued growth in aggregate product sales underlying our royalty revenues and that these royalty revenues will continue to represent the majority of our total revenues until our Queen patents expire in 2014. 20 Two of our Queen patents were issued to us by the European Patent Office, European Patent No. 0 451 216 (the '216 Patent) and European Patent No. 0 682 040 (the '040 Patent). Eighteen notices of opposition to our '216 Patent and eight notices of opposition to our '040 Patent were filed by major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, among others, and we are currently in two separate opposition proceedings with respect to these two patents. Although six opponents, including Genentech, have withdrawn from the opposition proceedings with respect to the opposition to our '216 Patent, 12 opponents to this patent remain. In addition, although the Opposition Division upheld claims in our '216 Patent in April 2007 that are virtually identical to the claims remitted by the Technical Board of Appeal to the Opposition Division, the opponents in this opposition have the right to appeal the Opposition Division's recent decision and this proceeding has not yet concluded. A description of both opposition proceedings is included under the heading "Legal Proceedings" in Part II, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report. If our patents are successfully opposed in either of these two proceedings or third parties decline to take licenses to our Queen patents, our future revenues would be adversely affected. For example, if the opponents in the proceeding regarding our '216 Patent are successful, our ability to collect royalties on European sales of antibodies humanized by others would depend on: (i) the scope and validity of our '040 Patent; and (ii) whether the antibodies are manufactured in a country outside of Europe where they are covered by one or more of our patents and, if so, on the terms of our license agreements. In addition, until the opposition proceedings are resolved, we may be limited in our ability to collect royalties or to negotiate future license agreements based on our Queen patents. An adverse decision by the Opposition Division could encourage challenges to our related Queen patents in other jurisdictions, including the United States. Such a decision may lead some of our licensees to stop making royalty payments or lead potential licensees not to take a license, either of which might result in us initiating formal legal proceedings to enforce our rights under our Queen patents. In such a situation, a likely defensive strategy to our action would be to challenge our patents in that jurisdiction. During the opposition process with respect to our '216 Patent, if we were to commence an infringement action in Europe to enforce that patent, such an action would likely be stayed until the opposition is decided by the European Patent Office. As a result, we may not be able to successfully enforce our rights under our European or related U.S. patents. Although we intend to vigorously defend the European patents in these two proceedings, we may not prevail in either of these opposition proceedings or any litigation contesting the validity of these patents. For example, our Japanese humanization patent, which was issued in September 1998, was opposed and eventually revoked by the Japanese Patent Office in March 2001. Although we appealed the Japanese Patent Office's revocation of this patent, the Tokyo High Court upheld the revocation of the patent and, in December 2004, the Japanese Supreme Court denied our petition for review of the Tokyo High Court's decision. The decision by the Japanese Supreme Court concluded the proceedings in the matter and the Japanese Patent Office's decision to revoke our patent is final and nonappealable. If the outcome of either of the European opposition proceedings or any litigation involving our antibody humanization patents were to be unfavorable, our ability to collect royalties on existing licensed products and to license our patents relating to humanized antibodies may be materially harmed. In addition, these proceedings or any other litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against infringement claims by others could result in substantial costs and diversion of management's time and attention, which could harm our business and financial condition. Our ability to maintain and increase our revenues from licensing our Queen patents is dependent upon third parties entering into new patent licensing arrangements, exercising rights under existing patent rights agreements, paying royalties under existing patent licenses with us and not terminating those existing licenses with us. To date, with the exception of Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Alexion), we have succeeded in obtaining and maintaining such licensing arrangements, and in receiving royalties 21 on product sales, from parties whose products may be covered by our patents. However, there can be no assurance that we will continue to succeed in our licensing efforts in the future. In the past, we have experienced challenges in our licensing efforts, such as the disagreement we had with Genentech in 2003 over whether its Xolair antibody was covered under our humanization patents. Although we subsequently reached an amicable settlement with Genentech that is intended to resolve such disagreements, Genentech or other companies may, in the future not enter into or terminate their licensing agreements with us, or seek to challenge our U.S. patents through litigation or patent office proceedings, such as re-examinations or interferences. More recently, in March 2007, the FDA approved Alexion's Soliris™ (eculizumab) humanized antibody product for marketing and we filed a lawsuit against Alexion seeking monetary damages for infringement of certain of certain claims of our Queen patents and other relief. In June 2007, Alexion filed an answer denying that its Soliris product infringes our patents, asserting certain defenses and counterclaiming for non-infringement and invalidity, and thereafter amended its answer to include a defense of unenforceability. In July 2007, the discovery stage of this litigation began and discovery is ongoing. We intend to vigorously assert our rights under the patents-in-suit and defend against Alexion's counterclaims. If we experience difficulty in enforcing our patent rights through licenses, or if our licensees, or prospective licensees, challenge our antibody humanization patents, our revenues and financial condition could be adversely affected, and we could be required to undertake additional actions, including litigation, to enforce our rights. Such efforts would increase our expenses and could be unsuccessful. The amount of royalty revenues we receive depends on, among other things, the efforts and successes of our licensees. The amount and timing of any royalties we may receive from our licensees will depend, in part, on the product development and marketing efforts and successes of our licensees. Our licensees may not successfully complete the product development, regulatory and marketing efforts required to sell royalty-bearing products. Competition from other products or therapies could adversely affect sales of our licensees' products. In addition, even if a licensee receives regulatory approval to sell a drug on which we would receive royalties, the licensee or a regulatory agency, such as the FDA, could terminate or suspend the marketing of the drug as a result of safety or other events. For example, in February 2005, Biogen Idec and Elan announced that they had voluntarily suspended the marketing and commercial distribution of the Tysabri antibody, a drug approved to treat MS and which is licensed under our humanization patents, because Biogen Idec and Elan had received reports of cases of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), a rare and frequently fatal, demyelinating disease of the central nervous system, in certain patients treated with Tysabri antibody. In July 2006, Biogen Idec and Elan reintroduced the Tysabri antibody, however, the Tysabri antibody's label now includes prominent warnings regarding the Tysabri antibody's risks and Biogen Idec and Elan implemented a risk management plan to inform physicians and patients of the benefits and risks of Tysabri antibody treatment and to minimize the risk of PML potentially associated with Tysabri antibody monotherapy. We must protect our patent and other intellectual property rights to succeed. Our success is dependent in significant part on our ability to develop and protect patent and other intellectual property rights and operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of others. Our pending patent applications may not result in the issuance of valid patents or the claims and claim scope of our issued patents may not provide competitive advantages. Also, our patent protection may not prevent others from developing competitive products using related or other technology that does not infringe our patent rights. A number of companies, universities and research institutions have filed patent applications or received patents in the areas of antibodies and other fields relating to our programs. Some of these applications or patents may be competitive with our applications or have claims that could prevent the issuance of patents to us or result in a significant reduction in the claim 22 scope of our issued patents. In addition, patent applications are confidential for a period of time after filing. We therefore may not know that a competitor has filed a patent application covering subject matter similar to subject matter in one of our patent applications or that we were the first to invent the innovation we seek to patent. This may lead to disputes including interference proceeding or litigation to determine rights to patentable subject matter. These disputes are often expensive and may result in our being unable to patent an innovation. The scope, enforceability and effective term of patents can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal and factual questions and proceedings. No consistent policy has emerged regarding the breadth of claims in biotechnology patents, so that even issued patents may later be modified or revoked by the relevant patent authorities or courts. These proceedings could be expensive, last several years and either prevent issuance of additional patents to us relating to humanization of antibodies or result in a significant reduction in the scope or invalidation of our patents. Any limitation in claim scope could reduce our ability to negotiate or collect royalties or to negotiate future collaborative research and development agreements based on these patents. Moreover, the issuance of a patent in one country does not assure the issuance of a patent with similar claim scope in another country, and claim interpretation and infringement laws vary among countries, so we are unable to predict the extent of patent protection in any country. In addition to seeking the protection of patents and licenses, we also rely upon trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, suppliers and licensees. If these agreements are not honored, we might not have adequate remedies for any breach. Additionally, our trade secrets might otherwise become known or patented by our competitors. We may need to obtain patent licenses from others in order to manufacture or sell our potential products and we may not be able to obtain these licenses on terms acceptable to us or at all. Other companies, universities and research institutions may obtain patents that could limit our ability to use, import, manufacture, market or sell our products or impair our competitive position. As a result, we may need to obtain licenses from others before we could continue using, importing, manufacturing, marketing, or selling our products. We may not be able to obtain required licenses on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we do not obtain required licenses, we may encounter significant delays in product development while we redesign potentially infringing products or methods or we may not be able to market our products at all. For example, the European Patent Office (EPO) granted Celltech Therapeutics Limited (Celltech), which UCB Group acquired, a patent covering humanized antibodies, which we have opposed. At an oral hearing in January 2005, the Opposition Division of the European Patent Office revoked this patent. Celltech has appealed this decision. The appeal was dismissed by the Technical Board of Appeal of the European Patent Office at an oral hearing in March 2008 and the patent remains revoked. Also, we do not know whether the EPO will grant Celltech a patent on a pending divisional application with claims broad enough to generally cover humanized antibodies. Celltech has also been issued a corresponding U.S. patent that contains claims that may be considered broader in scope than its European patent. In addition, Celltech was recently issued a second U.S. patent with claims that may be considered broader than its first U.S. patent. We have entered into an agreement with Celltech providing each company with the right to obtain nonexclusive licenses for up to three antibody targets under the other company's humanization patents, which rights may be exercised under the agreement through December 2014. Notwithstanding this agreement, if our humanized antibodies were covered by Celltech's European or U.S. patents and if we need more than the three licenses under those patents currently available to us under the agreement, we would need to negotiate additional licenses under those patents or significantly alter our processes or products. We might not be able to successfully alter 23 our processes or products to avoid conflict with these patents or to obtain the required additional licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, if a Celltech U.S. patent application conflicts with our U.S. patents or patent applications, we may become involved in proceedings to determine which company was the first to invent the products or processes contained in the conflicting patents. These proceedings could be expensive, last several years and either prevent issuance of additional patents to us relating to humanization of antibodies or result in a significant reduction in the scope or invalidation of our patents. Any limitation would reduce our ability to negotiate or collect royalties or to negotiate future collaborative research and development agreements based on these patents. We do not have a license to an issued U.S. patent assigned to Stanford University and Columbia University, which may cover a process we use to produce our potential products. We have been advised that an exclusive license has been previously granted to a third party, Centocor, under this patent. If our processes were found to be covered by either of these patents, we might need to obtain licenses or to significantly alter our processes or products. We might not be able to successfully alter our processes or products to avoid conflicts with these patents or to obtain licenses on acceptable terms or at all. We do not have licenses to issued U.S. patents which may cover one of our development-stage products. If we successfully develop this product, we might need to obtain licenses to these patents to commercialize the product. In the event that we need to obtain licenses to these patents, we may not be able to do so on acceptable terms or at all. If our collaborations are not successful or are terminated by our partners, we may not effectively develop and market some of our products. We have agreements with pharmaceutical and other companies to develop, manufacture and market certain of our potential products. In some cases, we rely on our partners to manufacture such products and essential components for those products, design and conduct clinical trials, compile and analyze the data received from these trials, obtain regulatory approvals and, if approved, market these licensed products. As a result, we may have limited or no control over the manufacturing, development and marketing of these potential products and little or no opportunity to review the clinical data prior to or following public announcement. In addition, the design of the clinical studies may not be sufficient or appropriate for regulatory review and approval and we may have to conduct further studies in order to facilitate approval. In September 2005, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Biogen Idec under which Biogen Idec became our partner on the development of daclizumab in certain indications, including MS, and volociximab (M200) in all indications. This agreement is particularly important to us. The collaboration agreement provides significant combined resources for the development, manufacture and potential commercialization of covered products. We and Biogen Idec each assume certain responsibilities and share expenses. Because of the broad scope of the collaborations, we are particularly dependent upon the performance by Biogen Idec of their obligations under the agreement. The failure of Biogen Idec to perform their obligations, our failure to perform our obligations, our failure to effectively manage the relationship, or a material contractual dispute between us and Biogen Idec would have a material adverse effect on our prospects or financial results. Moreover, our financial results depend in substantial part upon our efforts and related expenses for these programs. Our revenues and expenses recognized under the collaboration will vary depending on the work performed by us and Biogen Idec in any particular reporting period. The arrangement with Roche pursuant to which we were co-developing daclizumab for asthma and transplant maintenance was also particularly important to us. In 2006, however, Roche decided to first discontinue its involvement in the co-development of daclizumab in treating asthma and then later to 24 discontinue its co-development of daclizumab in transplant maintenance and terminate the Roche Co-Development Agreement effective in May 2007. We rely on other collaborators, such as clinical research organizations, medical institutions and clinical investigators, including physician sponsors, to conduct nearly all of our clinical trials, including recruiting and enrolling patients in the trials. If these parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be delayed or may not obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates. If any of the third parties upon whom we rely to conduct our clinical trials do not comply with applicable laws, successfully carry out their obligations or meet expected deadlines, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated. If the quality or accuracy of the clinical data obtained by third party contractors is compromised due to their failure to adhere to applicable laws, our clinical protocols or for other reasons, we may not obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize any of our product candidates. If our relationships with any of these organizations or individuals terminates, we believe that we would be able to enter into arrangements with alternative third parties. However, replacing any of these third parties could delay our clinical trials and could jeopardize our ability to obtain regulatory approvals and commercialize our product candidates on a timely basis, if at all. Our partners can terminate our collaborative agreements under certain conditions, and in some cases on short notice. A partner may terminate its agreement with us or separately pursue alternative products, therapeutic approaches or technologies as a means of developing treatments for the diseases targeted by us, or our collaborative effort. For example, in August 2006, following a portfolio review at Roche, Roche elected to discontinue its involvement in the development of daclizumab in treating asthma and other respiratory diseases in accordance with the terms of the collaboration agreement we had with Roche, and in November 2006, Roche elected to terminate the entire collaboration agreement. Even if a partner continues to contribute to the arrangement, it may nevertheless decide not to actively pursue the development or commercialization of any resulting products. In these circumstances, our ability to pursue potential products could be severely limited. Continued funding and participation by partners will depend on the continued timely achievement of our research and development objectives, the retention of key personnel performing work under those agreements and on each partner's own financial, competitive, marketing and strategic capabilities and priorities. These considerations include: •the commitment of each partner's management to the continued development of the licensed products or technology; •the relationships among the individuals responsible for the implementation and maintenance of the development efforts; and •the relative advantages of alternative products or technology being marketed or developed by each partner or by others, including their relative patent and proprietary technology positions, and their ability to manufacture potential products successfully. Our ability to enter into new relationships and the willingness of our existing partners to continue development of our potential products depends upon, among other things, our patent position with respect to such products. If we are unable to successfully maintain our patents we may be unable to collect royalties on existing licensed products or enter into additional agreements. In addition, our collaborative partners may independently develop products that are competitive with products that we have licensed to them. This could reduce our revenues under our agreements with these partners. 25 If our research and development efforts are not successful, we may not be able to effectively develop new products. We are engaged in research activities intended to, among other things, identify antibody product candidates that we may progress into clinical development. These research activities include efforts to discover and validate new targets for antibodies in our areas of therapeutic focus. We obtain new targets through our own drug discovery efforts and through in-licensing targets from institutions or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies. Our success in identifying new antibody product candidates depends upon our ability to discover and validate new targets, either through our own research efforts, or through in-licensing or collaborative arrangements. In order to increase the possibilities of identifying antibodies with a reasonable chance for success in clinical studies, part of our business strategy is to identify a higher number of potential targets than we expect to be able to progress through clinical development. Our antibody product candidates are in various stages of development and many are in an early development stage. If we are unsuccessful in our research efforts to identify and obtain rights to new targets and generate antibody product candidates that lead to the required regulatory approvals and the successful commercialization of products, our ability to develop new products could be harmed. To supplement our own research efforts, from time to time we may in-license or otherwise acquire from others rights to products in-development or early-stage technology. Acquiring rights to products in this manner poses risks, including because we may not be unable to successfully integrate the research, development and commercialization capabilities necessary to bring these products to market. The failure to gain market acceptance of our product candidates among the medical community would adversely affect our revenue. Even if approved, our product candidates may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, third-party payers and the medical community. We may not achieve market acceptance even if clinical trials demonstrate safety and efficacy and we obtain the necessary regulatory and reimbursement approvals. The degree of market acceptance of any product candidates that we develop will depend on a number of factors, including: •establishment and demonstration of clinical efficacy and safety; •cost-effectiveness of our product candidates; •their potential advantage over alternative treatment methods; •reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers; and •marketing and distribution support for our product candidates, including the efforts of our collaborators where they have marketing and distribution responsibilities. Physicians will not recommend our products until clinical data or other factors demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product as compared to conventional drug and other treatments. Even if we establish the clinical safety and efficacy of our product candidates, physicians may elect not to use our product for any number of other reasons, including whether the mode of administration of our products is effective for certain indications. Antibody products, including our product candidates as they would be used for certain disease indications, are typically administered by infusion or injection, which requires substantial cost and inconvenience to patients. Our product candidates, if successfully developed, may compete with a number of drugs and therapies that may be administered more easily. The failure of our product candidates to achieve significant market acceptance would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 26 The clinical development of drug products is inherently uncertain and expensive and subject to extensive government regulation. Our future success depends in large part upon the success of our clinical development efforts. Clinical development, however, is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process and subject to significant risks of failure. In addition, we must expend significant amounts to comply with extensive government regulation of the clinical development process. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any products, we must demonstrate through preclinical testing and clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective for their intended use in humans. We have incurred and will continue to incur substantial expense for, and we have devoted and expect to continue to devote a significant amount of time to, preclinical testing and clinical trials. Despite the time and expense incurred, our clinical trials may not adequately demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our product candidates. Completion of clinical development generally takes several years or more. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and submit an application for marketing and manufacturing approvals varies significantly according to the type, complexity and intended use of the product candidate and is difficult to predict. Further, we, the FDA, European Medicines Agency (EMEA), investigational review boards or data safety monitoring boards may decide to temporarily suspend or permanently terminate ongoing trials. Failure to comply with extensive regulations may result in unanticipated delay, suspension or cancellation of a trial or the FDA's or EMEA's refusal to accept test results. As a result of these factors, we cannot predict the actual expenses that we will incur with respect to preclinical or clinical trials for any of our potential products, and we expect that our expense levels will fluctuate unexpectedly in the future. Despite the time and expense incurred, we cannot guarantee that we will successfully develop commercially viable products that will achieve FDA or EMEA approval or market acceptance, and failure to do so would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Early clinical trials such as phase 1 and 2 trials generally are designed to gather information to determine whether further trials are appropriate and, if so, how such trials should be designed. As a result, data gathered in these trials may indicate that the endpoints selected for these trials are not the most relevant for purposes of assessing the product or the design of future trials. Moreover, success or failure in meeting such early clinical trial endpoints may not be dispositive of whether further trials are appropriate and, if so, how such trials should be designed. We may decide, or the FDA may require us, to make changes in our plans and protocols. Such changes may relate, for example, to changes in the standard of care for a particular disease indication, comparability of efficacy and toxicity of potential drug product where a change in the manufacturing process or manufacturing site is proposed, or competitive developments foreclosing the availability of expedited approval procedures. We may be required to support proposed changes with additional preclinical or clinical testing, which could delay the expected time line for concluding clinical trials. Larger or later stage clinical trials may not produce the same results as earlier trials. Many companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including our Company, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, including advanced clinical trials, even after promising results had been obtained in earlier trials. For example, in August 2007, we announced that we would terminate the phase 3 program of our Nuvion® (visilizumab) antibody in intravenous steroid-refractory ulcerative colitis because data from treated patients showed insufficient efficacy and an inferior safety profile in the visilizumab arm compared to IV steroids alone. Even when a drug candidate shows evidence of efficacy in a clinical trial, it may be impossible to further develop or receive regulatory approval for the drug if it causes an unacceptable incidence or severity of side effects, or further development may be slowed down by the need to find dosing regimens that do not cause such side effects. 27 In addition, we may not be able to successfully commence and complete all of our planned clinical trials without significant additional resources and expertise because we have a relatively large number of potential products in clinical development. The approval process takes many years, requires the expenditure of substantial resources, and may involve post-marketing surveillance and requirements for post-marketing studies. The approval of a product candidate may depend on the acceptability to the FDA of data from our clinical trials. Regulatory requirements are subject to frequent change. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals may: •adversely affect the successful commercialization of any drugs that we develop; •impose costly procedures on us; •diminish any competitive advantages that we may attain; and •adversely affect our receipt of revenues or royalties. In addition, we may encounter regulatory delays or failures of our clinical trials as a result of many factors, all of which may increase the costs and expense associated with the trial, including: •changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development; •delays in obtaining sufficient supply of materials to enroll and complete clinical studies according to planned timelines; •delays in obtaining regulatory approvals to commence a study; •delays in identifying and reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical trial sites; •delays in the enrollment of patients; •lack of efficacy during clinical trials; or •unforeseen safety issues. Regulatory review of our clinical trial protocols may cause us in some cases to delay or abandon our planned clinical trials. Our potential inability to commence or continue clinical trials, to complete the clinical trials on a timely basis or to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our potential products, further adds to the uncertainty of regulatory approval for our potential products. The "fast track" designation for development of any of our products may not lead to a faster development or regulatory review or approval process and it does not increase the likelihood the product will receive regulatory approval. If a drug is intended for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening condition and the drug demonstrates the potential to address unmet medical needs for this condition, the drug sponsor may apply for FDA "fast track" designation for a particular indication. Marketing applications filed by sponsors of products in fast track development may qualify for priority review under the policies and procedures offered by the FDA, but the fast track designation does not assure any such qualification. If we obtain a fast track designation from the FDA for any of our development stage products, this designation may not result in a faster development process, review or approval compared to drugs considered for approval under conventional FDA procedures. In addition, the FDA may withdraw any fast track designation it has granted at any time which could delay the approval process. In addition, our fast track designation does not guarantee that we will qualify for or be able to take advantage of the expedited review procedures and does not increase the likelihood that a product will receive regulatory approval. 28 We may be unable to enroll a sufficient number of patients in a timely manner in order to complete our clinical trials. The rate of completion of clinical trials is significantly dependent upon the rate of patient enrollment. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including: •the size of the patient population; •perceived risks and benefits of the drug under study; •availability of competing therapies, including those in clinical development; •availability of clinical drug supply; •availability of clinical trial sites; •design of the protocol; •proximity of and access by patients to clinical sites; •patient referral practices of physicians; •eligibility criteria for the study in question; and •efforts of the sponsor of and clinical sites involved in the trial to facilitate timely enrollment. We may have difficulty obtaining sufficient patient enrollment or clinician support to conduct our clinical trials as planned, and we may need to expend substantial additional funds to obtain access to resources or delay or modify our plans significantly. These considerations may result in our being unable to successfully achieve our projected development timelines, or potentially even lead us to consider the termination of ongoing clinical trials or development of a product for a particular indication. We must attract and retain key employees in order to succeed. To be successful, we must attract and retain qualified clinical, scientific, management and other personnel and we face significant competition for experienced personnel. If we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, particularly at the management level, our business could be impaired. The uncertainty caused by the strategic review and asset sales processes and restructuring we have recently undertaken has created anxiety among our employees. We believe this has caused attrition to increase because of employees' uncertainty regarding the continuation of employment. We have put in place certain severance and retention programs in an effort to mitigate the number of voluntary terminations, however, our programs may not provide effective incentive to employees to stay with us. The uncertainly may also make the recruitment of key personnel more difficult. We are currently engaged in a search for a new Chief Executive Officer, and the disruption and uncertainty caused by our restructuring may make such recruitment more difficult. The failure to recruit a new Chief Executive Officer could adversely impact our future performance. Pursuant to rules adopted under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we must evaluate the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting on a periodic basis, publicly disclose the results of these evaluations and publicly disclose whether we have implemented any changes in our internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Our management is required to periodically evaluate the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting and our independent registered public 29 accounting firm must attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year. We are also required to disclose in our periodic reports with the SEC any changes in our internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Our evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures may reveal material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we identify a material weakness we would be required to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is ineffective and disclose this conclusion, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. For example, we disclosed we had material weaknesses in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the periods ended September 30, 2005, June 30, 2007 and September 30, 2007 and our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. In addition, the rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation. Compliance with these rules has resulted in increased expenses and the devotion of significant management resources and we expect that the expenses for this process will continue to increase modestly. We rely on sole source, third-party contract manufacturers to manufacture our products. Assuming we successfully sell our Manufacturing Assets to Genmab, we will not have the capability to manufacture any of our development-stage products. We have entered into a supply agreement with Genmab that would become effective upon the closing of the sale of our Manufacturing Assets to Genmab, which would have an initial term of two years. If we experience supply problems with Genmab, there may not be sufficient supplies of our development-stage products for us to meet clinical trial demand, in which case our operations and results could suffer. Our products must be manufactured in FDA-approved facilities and the process for qualifying and obtaining approval for a manufacturing facility is time-consuming. The manufacturing facilities on which we rely will be subject to ongoing, periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and state agencies to ensure compliance with good manufacturing practices. Assuming we successfully sell our Manufacturing Assets to Genmab, if our relationship with Genmab was to terminate unexpectedly or on short notice or expire without being renewed, our ability to meet clinical trial demand for our development-stage products could be adversely affected while we qualify a new manufacturer for that product and our operations and future results could suffer. In addition, we would need to expend significant amounts to qualify a new manufacturer and transfer technology from Genmab to the new manufacturer which would also adversely affect our results of operations. Product supply interruptions, whether as a result of regulatory action or the termination of a relationship with a manufacturer, could significantly delay clinical development of our potential products, reduce third-party or clinical researcher interest and support of proposed clinical trials, and possibly delay commercialization and sales of these products. Our ability to file for, and to obtain, regulatory approvals for our products, as well as the timing of such filings, will depend on the abilities of the contract manufacturers we engage. We or our contract manufacturers may encounter problems with the following: •production yields; •quality control and assurance; •availability of qualified personnel; 30 •availability of raw materials; •adequate training of new and existing personnel; •on-going compliance with standard operating procedures; •on-going compliance with FDA regulations; •production costs; and •development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturing changes may result in delays in obtaining regulatory approval or marketing for our products. If we make changes in the manufacturing process, we may be required to demonstrate to the FDA and corresponding foreign authorities that the changes have not caused the resulting drug material to differ significantly from the drug material previously produced. Further, any significant manufacturing changes for the production of our product candidates could result in delays in development or regulatory approval or in the reduction or interruption of commercial sales of our product candidates. Our or our contract manufacturers' inability to maintain manufacturing operations in compliance with applicable regulations within our planned time and cost parameters could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have made manufacturing changes and are likely to make additional manufacturing changes for the production of our products currently in clinical development. These manufacturing changes or an inability to immediately show comparability between the older material and the newer material after making manufacturing changes could result in delays in development or regulatory approvals or in reduction or interruption of commercial sales and could impair our competitive position. Our business may be harmed if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials. We depend on outside vendors for the supply of raw materials used to produce our product candidates for use in clinical trials. Once a supplier's materials have been selected for use in the manufacturing process, the supplier in effect becomes a sole or limited source of that raw material due to regulatory compliance procedures. If the third-party suppliers were to cease production or otherwise fail to supply us with quality raw materials and we were unable to contract on acceptable terms for these services with alternative suppliers, our ability to produce our products and to conduct preclinical testing and clinical trials of product candidates would be adversely affected. This could impair our competitive position. We must comply with extensive government regulations and laws. We are subject, directly or through our customers, to extensive regulation by federal government, state governments, and the foreign countries in which we conduct our business. In particular, we are subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation as a developer of drug products. For example, the FDA regulates, among other things, the development, testing, research, manufacture, safety, efficacy, record-keeping, labeling, storage, approval, quality control, adverse event reporting, advertising, promotions, sale and distribution of biopharmaceutical products. Our product candidates and any future products may also be subject to extensive regulation by foreign governments. The regulatory review and approval process, which includes preclinical studies and clinical trials of each product candidate, is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. We must rely on our contract manufacturers and third-party suppliers for regulatory compliance and adhering to the FDA's current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) requirements. If these 31 manufacturers or suppliers fail to comply with applicable regulations, including FDA pre-or post-approval inspections and cGMP requirements, then the FDA could sanction us. These sanctions could include fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delay, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, product seizures or recalls, operational restrictions or criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. Laws that may directly or indirectly affect our ability to operate our business include, but are not limited, to the following: •the federal Anti-Kickback Law, which prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce either the referral of an individual, or furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; •the federal False Claims Act, which imposes civil and criminal liability on individuals and entities who submit, or cause to be submitted, false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government; •the federal False Statements Statute, which prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services; •the federal Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits corporations and individuals from engaging in certain activities to obtain or retain business or to influence a person working in an official capacity; and •state law equivalents to the Anti-Kickback Law and False Claims Act, which may not be limited to government reimbursed items. If our operations are found to violate any applicable law or other governmental regulations, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, damages and fines, including exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Similarly, if the hospitals, physicians or other providers or entities with which we do business are found non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on us. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations, and additional legal or regulatory change. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management's attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation. We expend a significant amount on compliance efforts and the expenses have been, and may in the future be unpredictable, and adversely affect our results. Changing laws, regulations and standards may also create uncertainty and increase insurance costs. We are committed to compliance and maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. 32 We may be unable to obtain or maintain regulatory approval for our products. Even if the FDA grants us marketing approval for a product, the FDA may impose post-marketing requirements, such as: •labeling and advertising requirements, restrictions or limitations, such as the inclusion of warnings, precautions, contra-indications or use limitations that could have a material impact on the future profitability of our product candidates; •adverse event reporting; •testing and surveillance to monitor our product candidates and their continued compliance with regulatory requirements; and •inspection of products and manufacturing operations and, if any inspection reveals that the product or operation is not in compliance, prohibiting the sale of all products, suspending manufacturing or withdrawing market clearance. The discovery of previously unknown problems with our product candidates, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in restrictions of the products, including withdrawal from manufacture. Additionally, certain material changes affecting an approved product such as manufacturing changes or additional labeling claims are subject to further FDA review and approval. The FDA may revisit and change its prior determination with regard to the safety or efficacy of our products and withdraw any required approvals after we obtain them. Even prior to any formal regulatory action requiring labeling changes or affecting manufacturing, we could voluntarily decide to cease the distribution and sale or recall any of our future products if concerns about their safety and efficacy develop. As part of the regulatory approval process, we or our contractors must demonstrate the ability to manufacture the pharmaceutical product to be approved. Accordingly, the manufacturing process and quality control procedures are required to comply with the applicable FDA cGMP regulations and other regulatory requirements. Good manufacturing practice regulations include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturing facilities must pass an inspection by the FDA before initiating commercial manufacturing of any product. Pharmaceutical product manufacturing establishments are also subject to inspections by state and local authorities as well as inspections by authorities of other countries. To supply pharmaceutical products for use in the United States, foreign manufacturing establishments must comply with these FDA approved guidelines. These foreign manufacturing establishments are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA or by corresponding regulatory agencies in these countries under reciprocal agreements with the FDA. The FDA enforces post-marketing regulatory requirements, such as cGMP requirements, through periodic unannounced inspections. Failure to pass an inspection could disrupt, delay or shut down our manufacturing operations. We expect to consummate the sale of our Manufacturing Assets and, although we do not have currently marketed products, the foregoing considerations would be important to our future selection of contract manufacturers. Our collaborative partners, licensees and we also are subject to foreign regulatory requirements regarding the manufacture, development, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products and, if the particular product is manufactured in the United States, FDA and other U.S. export provisions. These requirements vary widely in different countries. Difficulties or unanticipated costs or price controls may be encountered by us or our licensees or marketing partners in our respective efforts to secure necessary governmental approvals. This could delay or prevent us, our licensees or our marketing partners from marketing potential pharmaceutical products. 33 Further, regulatory approvals may be withdrawn if we do not comply with regulatory standards or if problems with our products occur. In addition, under a BLA, the manufacturer continues to be subject to facility inspection and the applicant must assume responsibility for compliance with applicable pharmaceutical product and establishment standards. If we fail to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements at any stage during the regulatory process, we may be subject to sanctions, including: •delays; •warning letters; •fines; •clinical holds; •product recalls or seizures; •changes to advertising; •injunctions; •refusal of the FDA to review pending market approval applications or supplements to approval applications; •total or partial suspension of product manufacturing, distribution, marketing and sales; •civil penalties; •withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications; and •criminal prosecutions. We may incur significant costs in order to comply with environmental regulations or to defend claims arising from accidents involving the use of hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, discharge, handling and disposal of materials and wastes used in our operations. As a result, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with these laws and regulations. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages and incur liabilities, which exceed our resources. In addition, we cannot predict the extent of the adverse effect on our business or the financial and other costs that might result from any new government requirements arising out of future legislative, administrative or judicial actions. We may be subject to product liability claims, and our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover these claims. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of products during research and development efforts or after commercialization results in adverse effects. This risk exists even with respect to any products that receive regulatory approval for commercial sale. While we maintain liability insurance for our products, it may not be sufficient to satisfy any or all liabilities that may arise. Also, adequate insurance coverage may not be available in the future at acceptable cost, if at all. 34 Increased leverage as a result of our sale of notes in 2003 and 2005 may harm our financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2007, we had $684.6 million in total liabilities outstanding, including $250.0 million in principal that remains outstanding under our 2.00% Convertible Senior Notes due February 15, 2012 (the 2005 Notes) and $250.0 million in principal that remains outstanding under our unsecured 2.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2023 (the 2003 Notes). The 2003 and 2005 Notes do not restrict our future incurrence of indebtedness and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our level of indebtedness will significantly affect our future operations because: •we will have additional cash requirements in order to support the payment of interest on our outstanding indebtedness; •increases in our outstanding indebtedness and leverage will increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; and •the levels of our outstanding debt could limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate and other purposes. Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which we cannot control. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt may require us to, among other things: •seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; •refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness, including the 2005 Notes or the 2003 Notes; •sell selected assets; •reduce or delay planned capital expenditures; or •reduce or delay planned operating expenditures, such as clinical trials. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms. We may not have the ability to raise the funds to repurchase the 2003 Notes on the repurchase date or to finance any repurchase offer required by the indenture. In August 2010, August 2013 and August 2018, respectively, holders of the 2003 Notes may require us to repurchase all or a portion of their 2003 Notes at 100% of their principal amount, plus any unpaid interest. For 2003 Notes to be repurchased in August 2010, we must pay for the repurchase in cash, and we may pay for the repurchase of 2003 Notes to be repurchased in August 2013 and August 2018, at our option, in cash, shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock. In addition, if a repurchase event occurs (as defined in the indenture), each holder of the 2003 Notes may require us to repurchase all or a portion of the holder's 2003 Notes. We may not have sufficient funds available for any required repurchases of these securities. In addition, the terms of any agreements related to borrowing which we may enter into from time to time may prohibit or limit our repurchase of 2003 Notes or make our repurchase of 2003 Notes an event of default under certain circumstances. If a repurchase event occurs at a time when a credit agreement prohibits us from purchasing the 2003 Notes, we could seek the consent of the lender to purchase the 2003 Notes or could attempt to refinance the debt covered by the credit agreement. If we do not obtain a consent, we may not repurchase the 2003 Notes. Our failure to repurchase tendered 2003 Notes would constitute an event of default under the indenture for the 2003 Notes, which might also constitute a default under 35 the terms of our other debt, including the 2005 Notes. In such circumstances, our financial condition and the value of our securities could be materially harmed. We may not have sufficient cash to purchase the 2005 Notes, if required, upon a fundamental change. Holders of the 2005 Notes may require us to purchase all or any portion of their 2005 Notes upon a fundamental change, which generally is defined as the occurrence of any of the following: (1) our common stock is not traded on a national securities exchange or listed on The Nasdaq Global Select Market; (2) any person acquires more than 50% of the total voting power of all shares of our capital stock; (3) certain mergers, consolidations, sales or transfers involving us occur; or (4) our Board of Directors does not consist of continuing directors. In certain situations, holders of the 2005 Notes will not have a repurchase right even if a fundamental change has occurred. In addition, we may not have sufficient cash funds to repurchase the 2005 Notes upon such a fundamental change. Although there are currently no restrictions on our ability to pay the purchase price, future debt agreements may prohibit us from repaying the purchase price. If we are prohibited from repurchasing the 2005 Notes, we could seek consent from our lenders at the time to repurchase the 2005 Notes. If we are unable to obtain their consent, we could attempt to refinance their debt. If we were unable to obtain consent or refinance the debt, we would be prohibited from repurchasing the 2005 Notes upon a fundamental change. If we were unable to purchase the 2005 Notes upon a fundamental change, it would result in an event of default under the indenture. An event of default under the indenture could result in a further event of default under our other then-existing debt. In addition, the occurrence of the fundamental change may be an event of default under our other debt, which could have a significant adverse affect on our financial condition. The conversion of any of the outstanding 2003 Notes or 2005 Notes into shares of our common stock would have a dilutive effect, which could cause our stock price to go down. The 2003 Notes and 2005 Notes are convertible, at the option of the holder, into shares of our common stock at varying conversion prices. We have reserved shares of our authorized common stock for issuance upon conversion of the 2003 Notes and 2005 Notes. If any or all of the 2003 Notes or 2005 Notes are converted into shares of our common stock, our existing stockholders will experience immediate dilution and our common stock price may be subject to downward pressure. If any or all of the 2003 Notes or 2005 Notes are not converted into shares of our common stock before their respective maturity dates, we will have to pay the holders of such notes the full aggregate principal amount of the 2003 Notes or 2005 Notes, respectively, then outstanding. Such payments could have a material adverse effect on our cash position. Failure to achieve revenue targets or raise additional funds in the future may require us to reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our planned activities. While we believe we have sufficient funds for our anticipated operations, we will need to generate significantly greater revenues to achieve and then maintain profitability on an annual basis. The product development, including clinical trials, manufacturing and regulatory approvals of product candidates currently in development, and the acquisition and development of additional product candidates by us will require a commitment of substantial funds. Our future funding requirements, which may be significantly greater than we expect, depend upon many factors, including: •the progress, level and timing of research and development activities related to clinical trials we are conducting or that are being conducting in collaboration with our partners, including clinical trials with respect to daclizumab and volociximab; •the cost and outcomes of regulatory submissions and reviews; 36 •the continuation or termination of third party manufacturing or sales and marketing arrangements; •the status of competitive products; •our ability to defend and enforce our intellectual property rights; and •our ability to extend the patent protection of our currently marketed products; and •the establishment of additional strategic or licensing arrangements with other companies, or acquisitions. Our common stock price is highly volatile and an investment in our Company could decline in value. Market prices for securities of biotechnology companies, including ourselves, have been highly volatile, and we expect such volatility to continue for the foreseeable future, so that investment in our securities involves substantial risk. For example, during the period from January 1, 2007 to December 31, 2007, our common stock closed as high as $27.70 per share and as low as $16.51 per share. Additionally, the stock market from time to time has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The following are some of the factors that may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock: •developments or disputes as to patent or other proprietary rights; •approval or introduction of competing products and technologies; •disappointing sales of products from which we receive royalties or withdrawal from the market of an approved product from which we receive royalties; •a change in the mix of U.S.-based Sales and ex-U.S.-based Sales in connection with our master patent license agreement with Genentech; •results of clinical trials; •failures or unexpected delays in timelines for our potential products in development, including the obtaining of regulatory approvals; •delays in manufacturing or clinical trial plans; •fluctuations in our operating results; •market reaction to announcements by other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including market reaction to various announcements regarding products licensed under our technology; •initiation, termination or modification of agreements with our collaborative partners or disputes or disagreements with collaborative partners; •loss of key personnel; •litigation or the threat of litigation; •public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by us; •sales of our common stock held by collaborative partners or insiders; and •comments and expectations of results made by securities analysts. 37 If any of these factors causes us to fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, or if adverse conditions prevail or are perceived to prevail with respect to our business, the price of the common stock would likely drop significantly. A significant drop in the price of a company's common stock often leads to the filing of securities class action litigation against the company. This type of litigation against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 