ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information included and incorporated by reference in this Annual Report, including the risk factors listed below. Any of these risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the trading price of shares of our common stock. Additional risks not currently known or currently material to us may also harm our business. Keep these risk factors in mind when you read forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report and the documents incorporated by reference in this Annual Report. These statements relate to our expectations about future events and time periods. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential,” 9 Table of Contents “continue” or “opportunity,” the negative of these words or words of similar import. Similarly, statements that describe our reserves and our future plans, strategies, intentions, expectations, objectives, goals or prospects are also forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and future events and circumstances could differ significantly from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. We must protect our patent and other intellectual property rights to succeed. Our success is dependent in significant part on our ability to protect the scope, validity and enforceability of our intellectual property, including our patents, SPCs and license agreements. The scope, validity, enforceability and effective term of patents and SPCs can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal and factual questions and proceedings. A finding in such a proceeding narrowing the scope of some or all of our patent rights could have a material impact on our ability to continue to collect royalty payments from our licensees or execute new license agreements. Any of these proceedings could further result in either loss of a patent or loss or reduction in the scope of one or more of the claims of the patent or claims underlying an SPC. These proceedings could be expensive, last several years and result in a significant reduction in the scope or invalidation of our patents. Any limitation in claim scope could reduce our ability to collect royalties or commence enforcement proceedings based on these patents. Moreover, the scope of a patent in one country does not assure similar scope of a patent with similar claims in another country. Also, claim interpretation and infringement laws vary among countries. Additionally, we depend on our license agreements to enforce royalty obligations against our licensees. Any limitations in our ability to enforce the scope and/or interpretation of the various licensee obligations in our licenses and related agreements could reduce our ability to collect royalties based on our license agreements. As a result of these factors, we are unable to predict the extent of our intellectual property protection in any country. For further information, see “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” Our revenues in Europe depend on the validity and enforceability of our SPCs and an adverse judgment would severely reduce our future revenues. Our ‘216B Patent in Europe was granted in 1996 by the EPO. The ‘216B Patent expired on December 28, 2009. To extend the period of enforceability of the ‘216B Patent against specific products which received marketing approval in Europe as of the expiration date of the ‘216B Patent, we applied for SPCs in various European national patent offices to cover Avastin, Herceptin, Xolair, Lucentis and Tysabri to the extent these products are made and sold outside the United States (the SPC Products). These SPCs generally expire in 2014. While our SPCs extend the period of enforceability of our ‘216B Patent against the SPC Products, their enforcement will be subject to varying, complex and evolving national requirements and standards relevant to enforcement of patent claims pursuant to SPCs. In the event that our SPCs are challenged in the national courts of the various countries in Europe in which we own granted SPCs, such a challenge could be directed against the validity of the SPC, the validity of the underlying patent claims and/or whether the product named in the SPC actually infringes those claims and whether the SPC was properly granted pursuant to controlling European law. Such a proceeding would involve complex legal and factual questions and proceedings. In addition, the European Court of Justice is expected to decide in a case currently pending before them whether a product covered by an SPC must be specifically disclosed in a base patent specification on which an SPC is derived in order for that SPC to be valid. If the European Court of Justice decides that a base patent must disclose the product covered by an SPC in detail, such a decision could materially impact the enforceability of our SPCs against the SPC Products. As a result of these factors, we are unable to predict the extent of protection afforded by our SPCs. Based on information provided to us in the quarterly royalty statements from our licensees, the royalties we collect on sales of the SPC Products approximated 35% of our royalty revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010. Based on announcements by Roche regarding moving manufacturing outside of the United States, we expect this amount to increase in the future. Our inability to collect those royalties would have a material negative impact on our cash flow, our ability to pay dividends in the future and our ability to service our debt 10 Table of Contents obligations. An adverse decision could also encourage challenges to our related Queen et al. patents in other jurisdictions including the United States. For further information, see “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” We derive a significant portion of our royalty revenues from Genentech and our future success depends on continued market acceptance of their products and approval of their licensed products that are in development, as well as continued performance by Genentech of its obligations under its agreements with us. Our revenues consist almost entirely of royalties from licensees of our Queen et al. patents of which the Genentech Products accounted for 86%, 71% and 73% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our future success depends upon the continued market acceptance of the Genentech products and upon the ability of Genentech to develop, introduce and deliver products that achieve and sustain market acceptance. For example, 60% of the royalties we currently receive from Genentech are dedicated to service the debt related to our QHP PhaRMA Senior Secured Notes due March 15, 2015 (the Non-recourse Notes) that we, through our wholly-owned subsidiary, QHP Royalty Sub LLC, issued in November 2009. We have no control over the sales efforts of Genentech and our other licensees, and our licensees might not be successful. Reductions in the sales volume or average selling price of Genentech Products could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our business and results of operations also depend on Genentech continuing to perform its obligations under its license agreements with us. In August 2010, we received a letter from Genentech on behalf of Roche and Novartis asserting that the Genentech Products do not infringe our SPCs for each of the Genentech Products. If Genentech is successful in asserting this position, then under the terms of our license agreements with Genentech, it would not owe us royalties on ex-U.S.-based Manufacturing and Sales of the Genentech Products. These royalties, which are essentially the same as the royalties that were at stake in our EPO dispute, accounted for approximately 35% of our royalty revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010. Based on announcements by Roche regarding moving more manufacturing outside of the United States, this percentage will increase in the future. We believe that these SPCs are enforceable against the Genentech Products and intend to vigorously assert our SPC-based patent rights. If we are unable to resolve the dispute with Genentech, we may incur significant additional costs and senior management time in asserting our rights under our various agreements with Genentech, whether through courts, arbitration or otherwise. To the extent Genentech stops or reduces payment of royalties on ex-U.S.-based Manufacturing and Sales of the Genentech Products, this would have a material negative impact on our cash flow and our ability to pay dividends in the future and would also cause us to extend the anticipated repayment of our Non-recourse Notes due in March 2015 for which we currently anticipate full repayment in the third quarter of 2012. In addition, to the extent the royalties we collect on ex-U.S.-based Manufacturing and Sales of the Genentech Products are reduced or eliminated as a result of our current dispute with Genentech, this would have a material negative impact on our cash flow and our ability to pay dividends in the future and would also cause us to extend the anticipated repayment of our subsidiary’s Non-recourse Notes due in March 2015 for which we currently anticipate full repayment in the third quarter of 2012. See “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” Our licensees may be unable to maintain regulatory approvals for currently licensed products or obtain regulatory approvals for new products. Safety issues could also result in the failure to maintain regulatory approvals or decrease revenues. Our licensees are subject to stringent regulation with respect to product safety and efficacy by various international, federal, state and local authorities. Of particular significance are the FDA requirements covering research and development, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling and promotion of drugs for human use in the United States. As a result of these requirements, the length of time, the level of expenditures and the 11 Table of Contents laboratory and clinical information required for approval of a biologic license application or new drug application are substantial and can require a number of years. In addition, even if our licensees’ products receive regulatory approval, they remain subject to ongoing FDA and other international regulations including, but not limited to, obligations to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing, changes to the product label, new or revised regulatory requirements for manufacturing practices, written advisements to physicians and/or a product recall or withdrawal. Our licensees may not maintain necessary regulatory approvals for their existing licensed products or our licensees may not obtain necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all, for any of the licensed products our licensees are developing or manufacturing. The occurrence of adverse events reported by any licensee may result in the revocation of regulatory approvals or decreased sales of the applicable product due to a change in physicians’ willingness to prescribe, or patients’ willingness to use the applicable product. In either case, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected. For example, in February 2005, Elan and Biogen Idec Inc. (Biogen Idec) announced that they had voluntarily suspended the marketing and commercial distribution of Tysabri, a drug approved for the treatment of multiple sclerosis that is licensed under Queen et al. patents, because of the occurrence of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), a rare and frequently fatal, demyelinating disease of the central nervous system, in certain patients treated with Tysabri. In July 2006, Elan and Biogen Idec reintroduced Tysabri; however, Tysabri’s label now includes prominent warnings regarding Tysabri’s risks and Elan and Biogen Idec have implemented a risk management program to inform physicians and patients of the benefits and risks of Tysabri and to minimize the risk of PML potentially associated with Tysabri. In December 2010, Elan and Biogen Idec announced that they had submitted a supplemental Biologics License to the FDA and a Type II Variation to the European Medicines Agency to request review and approval to update the product labeling to include anti-JC-virus antibody status as one potential factor to help stratify risk of PML in the Tysabri-treated population. Regulatory authorities worldwide continue to monitor the safety and efficacy of Tysabri. If physicians prescribe Tysabri less frequently due to the PML risk, or if Elan and Biogen Idec or various regulatory authorities suspend the marketing of Tysabri, the amount of royalties we receive will be adversely affected. In addition, the current regulatory framework could change or additional regulations could arise at any stage during our licensees’ product development or marketing which may affect our licensees’ ability to obtain or maintain approval of their licensed products. Delays in our licensees receiving regulatory approval for licensed products or their failure to maintain existing regulatory approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our licensees face competition. Our licensees face competition from other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. The introduction of new competitive products or follow-on biologics may result in lost market share for our licensees, reduced use of licensed products, lower prices and/or reduced licensed product sales, any of which could reduce our royalty revenues and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We intend to reserve from time to time a certain amount of cash in order to satisfy the obligations relating to our convertible notes, which could adversely affect the amount or timing of dividends to our stockholders. As of December 31, 2010, $133.5 million in principal remained outstanding under the 2012 Notes and $180.0 million in principal outstanding under the 2015 Notes. The 2012 Notes are senior unsecured debt and have been redeemable by us in whole or in part since February 19, 2010, at 100.57% of principal amount if redeemed between February 19, 2010, and February 14, 2011, and at 100.29% of principal amount if redeemed between February 15, 2011, and the maturity date. The 2015 Notes are senior unsecured debt that are redeemable by us in whole or in part at any time on or after August 15, 2014, at a redemption price equal to 100% of principal amount to be redeemed together with accrued but unpaid interest thereon. Holders of the 2012 Notes and the 2015 Notes may require us to purchase all or any portion of their 2012 Notes or the 2015 Notes at 100% of their principal 12 Table of Contents amount, plus any unpaid interest, upon a fundamental change resulting in the reclassification, conversion, exchange or cancellation of common stock. Such repurchase event or fundamental change is generally defined to include a merger involving PDL, an acquisition of a majority of PDL’s outstanding common stock and the change of a majority of PDL’s board of directors without the approval of the board of directors. We intend to reserve from time to time a certain amount of cash in order to satisfy these repurchase or other obligations relating to the convertible notes which could adversely affect the amount or timing of any distribution to our stockholders or any royalty asset acquisition. We may continue to redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire the convertible notes in the open market in the future, any of which could adversely affect the amount or timing of any cash distribution to our stockholders. If any or all of the convertible notes are not converted into shares of our common stock before their respective maturity dates, we will have to pay the holders of such notes the full aggregate principal amount of the convertible notes, then outstanding. For example, on February 15, 2012, we will have to pay the full aggregate principal amount of the 2012 Notes, $133.5 million as of December 31, 2010, if the 2012 Notes remain outstanding on such date. Any of the above payments could have a material adverse effect on our cash position. If we fail to satisfy these repurchase or other obligations, it may result in a default under the indenture which could result in a default under certain of our other debt instruments, if any. The conversion of any of the 2012 Notes or the 2015 Notes into shares of our common stock would have a dilutive effect which could cause our stock price to go down. The 2012 Notes and the 2015 Notes are currently convertible at any time, at the option of the holder, into shares of our common stock. We have reserved shares of our authorized common stock for issuance upon conversion of the 2012 Notes and the 2015 Notes. If any or all of the 2012 Notes or the 2015 Notes are converted into shares of our common stock, our existing stockholders will experience immediate dilution of voting rights and our common stock price may decline. The conversion rates as of December 31, 2010, for both the 2012 Notes and the 2015 Notes are 140.571 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount or $7.11 per share of common stock. Because the conversion rates of the 2012 Notes and the 2015 Notes adjust upward upon the occurrence of certain events, such as a dividend payment, our existing stockholders will experience more dilution if any or all of the 2012 Notes or the 2015 Notes are converted into shares of our common stock after the adjusted conversion rates became effective. Changes in the third-party reimbursement environment may affect product sales from which we generate royalty revenues. Sales of products from which we generate royalties will depend significantly on the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatments will be available to physicians and patients from various levels of U.S. and international government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Third-party payers and government health administration authorities increasingly attempt to limit and/or regulate the reimbursement of medical products and services, including branded prescription drugs. Changes in government legislation or regulation, such as the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010; the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2009 and the Medicare, Medicaid and State Children’s Health Insurance Program Extension Act of 2007; changes in formulary or compendia listing or changes in private third-party payers’ policies toward reimbursement for such products may reduce reimbursement of the cost of such products to physicians, pharmacies and distributors. Decreases in third-party reimbursement could reduce usage of such products, sales to collaborators and may have a material adverse effect on our royalties which depend on such product sales. In addition, macroeconomic factors may affect the ability of patients to pay or co-pay for costs or otherwise pay for products from which we generate royalties by, for example, decreasing the number of patients covered by insurance policies or increasing costs associated with such policies. 13 Table of Contents Our common stock may lose value due to several factors, including the expiration of our Queen et al. patents, the payment of dividends or distributions to our stockholders and failure to meet analyst expectations, and our common stock could be delisted from NASDAQ. Our revenues consist almost entirely of royalties from licensees of our Queen et al. patents, which finally expire in December of 2014. Unless we develop other sources of revenue, we will no longer receive patent-related royalties once our licensees have sold all their inventory of licensed product that was manufactured before the expiration of the Queen et al. patents. As a result, our common stock will likely lose value. If we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, or if adverse conditions prevail or are perceived to prevail with respect to our business, the price of the common stock would likely drop significantly. In addition to all of the risk factors listed herein, the payment of dividends or distributions to our stockholders may reduce the price of our common stock. If the price of our common stock were to fall below NASDAQ listing standards as we approach the date of patent expiration, our common stock may be delisted. If our common stock were delisted, market liquidity for our common stock could be severely affected and our stockholders’ ability to sell securities in the secondary market could be limited. Delisting from NASDAQ would negatively affect the value of our common stock. Delisting could also have other negative results, including, but not limited to, the potential loss of confidence by employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. Our revenues and operating results will likely fluctuate in future periods. Our royalty revenues may be unpredictable and fluctuate because they depend upon, among other things, the rate of growth of sales of licensed products as well as the mix of U.S.-based Sales and ex-U.S.-based Manufacturing and Sales in connection with our master patent license agreement with Genentech. The Genentech agreement provides for a tiered royalty structure. The royalty rate Genentech must pay on 95% of the underlying gross U.S.-based Sales in a given calendar year decreases on incremental U.S.-based Sales above certain net sales thresholds. As a result of the tiered royalty structure, Genentech’s average annual royalty rate for a given year declines as Genentech’s U.S.-based Sales increase during that year. Because we receive royalties one quarter in arrears, the average royalty rate for the payments we receive from Genentech in the second calendar quarter—which would be for Genentech’s sales from the first calendar quarter—has been and is expected to continue to be higher than the average royalty rate for following quarters. The average royalty rate for payments we receive from Genentech is generally lowest in the fourth quarter and first calendar quarter of the following year, which would be for Genentech’s sales from the third and fourth calendar quarter, when Genentech’s U.S.-based Sales bear royalties at a 1% royalty rate. With respect to the ex-U.S.-based Manufacturing and Sales, the royalty rate that we receive from Genentech is a fixed rate of 3% based on 95% of the underlying gross ex-U.S.-based Manufacturing and Sales. The mix of U.S.-based Sales and ex-U.S.-based Manufacturing and Sales has fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate in future periods, particularly in light of the 2009 acquisition of Genentech by Roche. For example, Roche has announced plans to move certain Avastin and Lucentis manufacturing to Singapore. We may experience increases and decreases in our royalty revenues due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and we may be unsuccessful in our attempts to mitigate this risk. A material portion of our royalties are calculated based on sales in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Fluctuations in foreign currency rates, particularly the Eurodollar, relative to the U.S. dollar can significantly affect our revenues and operating results. While foreign currency conversion terms vary by license agreement, generally most agreements require that royalties first be calculated in the currency of sale and then converted into U.S. dollars using the average daily exchange rates for that currency for a specified period at the end of the calendar quarter. For example, when the U.S. dollar weakens in relation to other currencies, the converted 14 Table of Contents amount is greater than it would have been had the U.S. dollar exchange rates remained unchanged. More than 50% of our licensees’ product sales are in currencies other than U.S. dollars; as such, our revenues may fluctuate due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and is subject to foreign currency exchange risk. For example, in a quarter in which we generate $70 million in royalty revenues, approximately $35 million is based on sales in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. If the U.S. dollar strengthens across all currencies by 10% during the conversion period for that quarter, when compared to the same amount of local currency royalties for the prior year, U.S. dollar converted royalties will be approximately $3.5 million less in the current quarter than in the prior year. To compensate for currency fluctuations, we hedge certain foreign currency exposures with foreign currency exchange contracts to offset the risks associated with these foreign currency exposures. We may suspend the use of these contracts from time to time or we may be unsuccessful in our attempt to hedge our foreign currency risk. When our hedging is active, we enter into foreign currency exchange contracts so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency related exposures are offset by gains or losses on the foreign currency exchange contracts in order to mitigate the risks and volatility in our royalty revenues for which the underlying sales are in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As a material portion of our royalty revenues are based on international sales by our licensees, we could experience additional foreign currency related volatility in the future, the amounts and timing of which are variable. We will continue to experience foreign currency related fluctuations in our royalty revenues in certain instances when we do not enter into foreign currency exchange contracts or where it is not possible or cost effective to hedge our foreign currency related exposures. Currency related fluctuations in our royalty revenues will vary based on the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, whether we have entered into foreign currency exchange contracts to offset these exposures and other factors. All of these factors could materially impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows, the timing of which is variable and generally outside of our control. We must attract, retain and integrate key employees in order to succeed. It may be difficult to recruit, retain and integrate key employees. To be successful, we must attract, retain and integrate qualified personnel. Our business is managing our Queen et al. patents and royalty assets which requires only a small number of employees. Due to the unique nature and location of our company, it may be difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified personnel. If we are unsuccessful in attracting, retaining and integrating qualified personnel, our business could be impaired. Our agreements with Facet may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arm’s-length negotiations between unaffiliated third parties. The agreements associated with the divestiture of Facet in December 2008, including the Separation and Distribution Agreement, Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement and Cross License Agreement, were negotiated in the context of the divestiture while Facet was still part of PDL and, accordingly, may not reflect more favorable terms that may have resulted from arm’s-length negotiations between unaffiliated third parties. We may have obligations for which we may not be able to collect under our indemnification rights from Facet. Under the terms of the separation and distribution agreement with Facet, we and Facet agreed to indemnify the other from and after the divestiture with respect to certain indebtedness, liabilities and obligations that were retained by our respective companies. These indemnification obligations could be significant. The ability to satisfy these indemnities, if called upon to do so, will depend upon the future financial strength of each of our companies. We cannot assure you that, if Facet has to indemnify us for any substantial obligations, Facet will have the ability to satisfy those obligations. If Facet does not have the ability to satisfy those obligations, we may be required to satisfy those obligations instead. For example, in connection with the divestiture, we entered into 15 Table of Contents amendments to the leases for the facilities in Redwood City, California, which formerly served as our corporate headquarters and which are now occupied by Facet under which Facet was added as a co-tenant under the leases and a Co-Tenancy Agreement under which Facet agreed to indemnify us for all matters related to the leases attributable to the period after the divestiture date. Should Facet default under its lease obligations, we would be held liable by the landlord as a co-tenant and, thus, we have in substance guaranteed the payments under the lease agreements for the Redwood City facilities, the disposition of which could have a material adverse effect on the amount or timing of any distribution to our stockholders. As of December 31, 2010, the total lease payments for the duration of the guarantee, which runs through December 2021, are approximately $121.0 million. We would also be responsible for lease related payments including utilities, property taxes and common area maintenance which may be as much as the actual lease payments. In April 2010, Abbott acquired Facet and later renamed the company Abbott Biotherapeutics Corp. While our indemnification rights remain intact with the acquisition of Facet, we do not know how Abbott intends to operate Facet or, for example, whether Facet will continue to occupy the Redwood City facilities. As a result, we are unable to determine how Abbott’s acquisition of Facet will impact our ability to collect under our indemnification rights or whether Facet’s ability to satisfy its obligations will change. See “Item 2—Properties.” We may enter into acquisitions or other material royalty asset transactions now and in the future and such acquisitions may not produce anticipated royalty revenues. We are engaged in a continual review of opportunities to acquire existing royalty assets or to acquire companies that hold royalty assets. We currently, and generally at any time, have acquisition opportunities in various stages of active review, including, for example, our engagement of consultants and advisors to analyze particular opportunities, technical, financial and other confidential information, submission of indications of interest and involvement as a bidder in competitive auctions. Many potential acquisition targets do not meet our criteria, and for those that do, we may face significant competition for these acquisitions from other royalty buyers and enterprises. Competition for future royalty asset acquisition opportunities in our markets could increase the price we pay for royalty assets we acquire and could reduce the number of potential acquisition targets. The success of our royalty asset acquisitions is based on our ability to make accurate assumptions regarding the valuation, timing and amount of royalty payments. The failure of any of these acquisitions to produce anticipated royalty revenues may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our licensees for the determination of royalty payments. We may not be able to detect errors and payment calculations may call for retroactive adjustments. The royalty payments we receive are determined by our licensees based on their reported sales. Each licensee’s calculation of the royalty payments is subject to and dependent upon the adequacy and accuracy of its sales and accounting functions, and errors may occur from time to time in the calculations made by a licensee. Our license agreements provide us the right to audit the calculations and sales data for the associated royalty payments; however, such audits may occur many months following our recognition of the royalty revenue, may require us to adjust our royalty revenues in later periods and may require expense on the part of the Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 