Item 1A. Risk Factors” and other factors discussed elsewhere in this report. Moreover, as a result of our intended future growth and expansion of our businesses, products and services, we may incur expenses in future periods, including significant costs in developing and expanding our core distributed generation business and the new related businesses, such as selling and marketing expenses and general and administrative expenses, that could adversely affect our operating results or cause them to fall below recent levels. If our future growth rates, revenues and margins do not meet our expectations, or if our operating expenses exceed what we anticipate, our results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. We face some risks that are inherent in energy operations. Our operations are subject to the hazards and risks inherent in the servicing and operation of natural gas and production water disposal assets, including encountering unexpected pressures, explosions, fires, natural disasters, blowouts, cratering and pipeline ruptures, as well as in the manufacture, sale and operation of electrical 17 Table of Contents equipment such as our distributed generation system, including electrical shocks, which hazards and risks could result in personal injuries, loss of life, environmental damage and other damage to our properties and the properties of others. These operations involve numerous financial, business, regulatory, environmental, operating and legal risks. For example, the WaterSecure operations suffered fires in early 2008 that resulted in personal injuries, damages to property and loss of revenues, net income and cash flow due to business interruption, and will increase future operating expenses due to safety measures being implemented. These risks could materialize and result in losses to us as the result of personal injuries, damage to property and business interruption, some of which could occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or could exceed our insurance coverage. Therefore, the occurrence of a significant adverse effect that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material and adverse effect on our business. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at reasonable rates. Because some of our business and product offerings have limited histories and their business strategies are still being developed and are unproven, limited information is available to evaluate their future prospects. Our business strategy includes the development and expansion of new businesses and product lines from time to time, including our new engineering services, management consulting and energy and lighting efficiency businesses. Our plans and strategies with respect to these new businesses are often based on unproven models and must be developed and modified. Our future success depends in large part upon our ability to develop these new businesses so that they will generate significant revenues, profits and cash flow. As a company developing new businesses in the rapidly evolving energy and technology markets, we face numerous risks and uncertainties which are described in this Item as well as other parts of this report. Some of these risks relate to our ability to: • anticipate and adapt to the changing regulatory climate for energy and technology products, services and technology; • attract customers to our new businesses; • anticipate and adapt to the changing energy markets and end-user preferences; • attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; • respond to actions taken by our competitors; • integrate acquired businesses, technologies, products and services; • generate revenues, gross margins, cash flow and profits from sales of new products and services; and • implement an effective marketing strategy to promote awareness of our new businesses, products and services. Our business and financial results in the future will depend heavily on the market acceptance and profitability of our new businesses and these new product and service offerings lines. If we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks or in executing our business strategies, or if our business model fails or is invalid, then our business would be materially and adversely affected. Changes in our product mix could materially and adversely affect our business. The margins on our revenues from some of our product and service offerings are higher than the margins on some of our other product and service offerings. For example, margins received for recurring revenue contracts are generally higher than project-based contracts. In addition, our margins can also fluctuate based upon tariff systems and contract factors. In addition, we cannot currently accurately estimate the margins of some of our new and developing products and services due to their limited operating history. Our new products and services may have lower margins than our current products and services. If in the future we derive a proportionately greater percentage of our revenues from lower margin products and services, then our overall margins on our total revenues will decrease and, accordingly, will result in lower net income, or higher net losses, and less cash flow on the same amount of revenues. 18 Table of Contents Severe, adverse weather conditions, such as hurricanes, can cause a severe disruption in the business of Southern Flow by significantly reducing the short and mid-term demand requirements of its customers. Southern Flow’s business is in large part dependent upon the business of large oil and gas producers. Severe, adverse weather conditions, such as hurricanes, can cause serious disruptions in the production activities of those customers, which in turn reduces their demand for Southern Flow’s services. While such production reductions tend to be temporary and after time those production levels tend to return to normal levels, such disruptions can cause Southern Flow to lose business that is generally not replaceable. This loss of business results in a loss of revenues for Southern Flow, and because Southern Flow’s expenses tend to be fixed, at least in the short-term, these losses of revenues could have a significant effect on Southern Flow’s net income and cash flows, and thus a material adverse impact on our revenues, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to lawsuits, claims and proceedings from time to time, and in the future we could become subject to new proceedings, and if any of those proceedings are material and are successfully prosecuted against us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. From time to time, we are involved in a variety of claims, suits, investigations, proceedings and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of our business, including actions with respect to labor and employment claims, taxes, breach of contract claims and other matters. For example, from time to time, we hire employees that are subject to restrictive covenants, such as non-competition agreements with their former employers. We comply, and require our employees to comply, with the terms of all known restrictive covenants. However, we have in the past and may in the future receive claims and demands by some former employers alleging actual or potential violations of these restrictive covenants. We intend to vigorously defend all claims against us. Although the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be accurately predicted due to the inherent uncertainty of litigation, in the opinion of management, based upon current information, no currently pending or overtly threatened claim is expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, even if we are successful on the merits, any pending or future lawsuits, claims or proceedings could be time-consuming and expensive to defend or settle and could result in the diversion of significant management time and operational resources, which could materially and adversely affect us. In addition, it is possible that an unfavorable resolution of one ore more such proceedings could in the future materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We extend product warranties which could adversely affect our operating results. We provide a standard one year warranty for distributed generation equipment. In addition, we offer extended warranty terms on our distributed generation turn-key projects. We reserve for the estimated cost of product warranties when revenue is recognized, and we evaluate our reserve periodically by comparing our warranty repair experience by product. While we engage in product quality programs and processes, including monitoring and evaluating the quality of our components suppliers and development of methods to remotely detect and correct failures, our warranty obligation is affected by actual product failure rates, parts and equipment costs and service labor costs incurred in correcting a product failure. In addition, our operating history in the distributed generation market is limited. If actual product failure rates, parts and equipment costs, or service labor costs exceed our estimates, our operating results could be adversely impacted. If we fail to successful educate our potential customers, including utility customers, regarding the benefits of our distributed generation solutions or if the market otherwise fails to continue to develop and expand the need for our solutions, our business will be limited and adversely affected. Our future success depends in large part upon the continued and growing commercial acceptance of our distributed generation energy solutions and our ability to obtain additional orders. The market for our solutions is relatively new and undeveloped. If we are unable to educate our potential customers and utility partners about the benefits of our solutions over competing products and services, our ability to sell and grow the sales of our solutions will be limited. In addition, because the distributed generation sector is rapidly evolving, we cannot accurately assess the size of the market, and we may not be able to accurately assess the trends that may emerge and affect our business. For example, we may have difficulty predicting customer needs and developing solutions that address those needs. If the market for our energy solutions does not continue to grow, our ability to grow our business could be limited, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Because we are dependent upon the utility industry for a growing portion of our revenues, reductions or deferrals of purchases of our products and services by utilities or their customers could materially and adversely affect our business. One of our marketing approaches involves partnering with utilities and selling our products and services to their large commercial and industrial customers. We have recently derived an increasing portion of our revenues from this approach. However, the purchasing patterns of these customers are variable and generally characterized by long budgeting, purchasing and regulatory process cycles. These customers typically issue requests for quotes and proposals, establish committees to evaluate the purchase proposals, review different technical options with vendors, analyze performance and cost/benefit justifications and perform a regulatory review, in addition to applying a normal budget approval process within the utility. In addition, utilities may defer purchases of our products and services if the utilities reduce capital expenditures as the result of mergers and acquisitions, pending or unfavorable regulatory decisions, poor revenues due to weather conditions, rising interest rates or general economic downturns, among other factors. This climate could adversely affect our business. Many of our products and services experience long and variable sales cycles, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations for any given quarter or year. Our products and services are often used by our customers to address critical business needs. Customers generally consider a wide range of issues before making a decision to purchase our products and services. In addition, the purchase of some of our products and services involves a significant commitment of capital and other resources by the customer. This commitment often requires significant technical review, assessment of competitive products and approval at a number of management levels within the customer’s organization. Our sales cycle may vary based on the industry in which the potential customer operates and is difficult to predict for any particular transaction. The length and variability of our sales cycle makes it difficult to predict whether particular sales will be concluded in any given quarter. While our customers are evaluating our products and services before they place an order with us, we may incur substantial sales and marketing and research and development expenses to customize our products to the customer’s needs. We may also expend significant management efforts, increase manufacturing capacity and order long-lead-time components or materials prior to receiving an order. Even after this evaluation process, a potential customer may not purchase our products. As a result, these long sales cycles may cause us to incur significant expenses without ever receiving revenue to offset those expenses. If we are unable to develop new and enhanced products and services that achieve market acceptance in a timely manner, our operating results and competitive position could be harmed. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new and enhanced products and services that achieve market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner. The development of technology is often complex, and we occasionally have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products and services and enhancements thereof. Successful development and market acceptance of our products and services depends on a number of factors, including: • the changing requirements of customers; • the accurate prediction of market requirements; • the timely completion and introduction of new products and services; • the quality, price and performance of new products and services; • the availability, quality, price and performance of competing products, services and technologies; • our customer service and support capabilities and responsiveness; • the successful development of our relationships with existing and potential customers; and • changes in technology, industry standards or end-user preferences. We cannot provide assurance that products and services that we have recently developed or may develop in the future will achieve market acceptance. If our new products and services fail to achieve market acceptance, or if we fail to develop new or enhanced products and services that achieve market acceptance, our growth prospects, operating results and competitive position could be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents Rapid technological changes may prevent us from remaining current with our technological resources and maintaining competitive product and service offerings. The markets in which our businesses operate are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent introductions of new and enhanced products and services, evolving industry standards and regulatory requirements and changes in customer needs. Significant technological changes could render our existing and planned new products, services and technology obsolete. Our future success will depend, in large part, upon our ability to: • effectively use and develop leading technologies; • continue to develop our technical expertise; • enhance our current products and services; • develop new products and services that meet changing customer needs; and • respond to emerging industry and regulatory standards and technological changes in a cost-effective manner. If we are unable to successfully respond to these developments or if we do not respond to them in a cost-effective manner, then our business will be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in responding to changing technology or market needs. In addition, products, services and technologies developed by others may render our products, services and technology uncompetitive or obsolete. Even if we do successfully respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards, the integration of new technology may require substantial time and expense, and we cannot assure you that we will succeed in adapting our products, services and technology in a timely and cost-effective manner. We may experience financial or technical difficulties or limitations that could prevent us from introducing new or enhanced products or services. Furthermore, any of these new or enhanced products, services and technology could contain problems that are discovered after they are introduced. We may need to significantly modify the design of these products and services to correct problems. Rapidly changing technology and operating systems may impede market acceptance of our products, services and technology. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if we experience difficulties in introducing new or enhanced services and products or if these products and services are not received favorably by our customers. Development and enhancement of our products and services will require significant additional expenses and could strain our management, financial and operational resources. The lack of market acceptance of our products or services or our inability to generate sufficient revenues from this development or enhancements to offset their costs could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the past, we have experienced delays in releasing new products and services and enhancements, and we may experience similar delays in the future. These delays or problems in the installation of implementation of our new products and services and enhancements may cause customers to forego purchases of our products and services to purchase those of our competitors. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain key personnel, our business will be materially and adversely affected. We believe our future success and performance will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, managerial, sales, marketing, finance and operations personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain these key employees in the future. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although we have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers, we generally do not have employment contracts with our other key employees. In addition, we do not have key person life insurance for most of our key personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our current key personnel or that we will be able to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect in the future to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. If we are unable to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Failures in the integrity of our current systems and planned system upgrades could materially affect our business performance and our ability to accurately and timely report our financial results. Our ability to generate accurate and timely financial information for management reporting and public 21 Table of Contents reporting purposes is dependent on the integrity and stability of our current financial systems and upgrades to our systems. This includes our financial and operational systems. Disruptions in our systems integrity could lead to operational issues and inefficiencies in our business which could be material. Our significant growth requires that we upgrade our financial systems from time to time, including a financial system upgrade which is expected to begin in 2008 and extend into 2009. We expect that this financial system upgrade will improve our financial operations once it is complete, but transitional issues could occur during installation which could adversely impact our performance as well as the integrity or timing of our financial results. We face intense competition in the markets for our products, services and technology, and if we cannot successfully compete in those markets, our business will be materially and adversely affected. The markets for our products, services and technology are intensely competitive and subject to rapidly changing technology, new competing products and services, frequent performance improvements and evolving industry standards. The market for energy solutions is fragmented. We compete against traditional supply-side resources as well as against solutions offered by utilities and competitive electricity suppliers. We expect the intensity of competition to increase in the future because the growth potential and deregulatory environment of the energy market have attracted and are anticipated to continue to attract many new competitors, including new businesses as well as established businesses from different industries. Competition may also increase as a result of industry consolidation. As a result of increased competition, we may have to reduce the price of our products and services, and we may experience reduced gross margins and loss of market share, which could significantly reduce our future revenues and operating results. Many of our existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, manufacturing and other resources than we do. This may enable our competitors to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or preferences and to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services than we can. Our competitors may be able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and make more attractive offers to potential employees, customers, strategic partners and suppliers and vendors than we can. Our competitors may develop products and services that are equal or superior to the products and services offered by us or that achieve greater market acceptance than our products do. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to improve their ability to address the needs of our existing and prospective customers. As a result, it is possible that new competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share or impede our ability to acquire market share in new markets. We cannot assure you that we will have the financial resources, technical expertise, portfolio of products and services or marketing and support capabilities to compete successfully in the future. Our inability to compete successfully or to timely respond to market demands or changes would have a material adverse effect on our business, conditions and results of operations. We may require a substantial amount of additional funds to finance our capital requirements and the growth of our business, but we may not be able to raise a sufficient amount of funds to do so on terms favorable to us and our stockholders or at all. We may need to obtain additional capital to fund our capital obligations and to finance the growth and expansion of our businesses. For example, we will need substantial additional capital to finance the development and growth of our recurring revenue projects, which are heavily capital intensive. In addition, from time to time as part of our business plan, we engage in discussions regarding potential acquisitions of businesses and technologies. While our ability to finance future acquisitions will probably depend on our ability to raise additional capital, as of the date of this prospectus, we have not entered into any agreement committing us to any such acquisition. Moreover, unanticipated events, over which we have no control, could increase our operating costs or decrease our ability to generate revenues from product and service sales, necessitating additional capital. We continually evaluate our cash flow requirements as well as our opportunity to raise additional capital in order to improve our financial position. In addition, we continually evaluate opportunities to improve our credit facilities, through increased credit availability, lower debt costs or other more favorable terms. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to raise additional capital or replace our current credit facilities when needed or desired, or that the terms of any such financing will be favorable to us and our stockholders. We entered into a new revolving credit facility in August 2007, under which we have a maximum credit line of $25 million. The credit facility matures in August 2010. As of December 31, 2007, we had made no borrowings against this credit line, and thus the full amount was available. The amount of our loan availability, as 22 Table of Contents well as the amount borrowed under the credit facility, will change in the future depending on our asset base, our liquidity and our capital requirements. In January 2008, we entered into a $2.8 million term credit facility to finance the purchase of our Wake Forest, North Carolina headquarters. Our ability to borrow under the revolving credit facility is subject to our ability to satisfy a number of financial covenants. Our ability to satisfy those covenants depends principally upon our ability to achieve positive operating performance. If we are unable to fully satisfy the financial covenants of either the credit facility or the term credit facility, and this failure is not waived by our lender, then we will be in breach of the terms of that credit facility. Our obligations under these credit facilities are secured by a first priority security interest in substantially all of the assets of our subsidiaries, and by guarantees by our subsidiaries. Any breach of the covenants in either of these credit facilities could result in a default under that credit facility and a cross-default under the other credit facility, and an acceleration of payment of all outstanding debt owed, which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition. We may seek to raise any needed or desired additional capital from the proceeds of public or private equity or debt offerings at the holding company level or at the subsidiary level or both, through asset or business sales, from traditional credit financings or from other financing sources. Our ability to obtain additional capital when needed or desired will depend on many factors, including general market conditions, our operating performance and investor sentiment, and thus cannot be assured. In addition, depending on how it is structured, raising capital could require the consent of our lender. Even if we are able to raise additional capital, the terms of any financing could be adverse to the interests of our stockholders. For example, the terms of debt financing could include covenants that restrict our ability to operate our business or to expand our operations, while the terms of an equity financing, involving the issuance of capital stock or of securities convertible into capital stock, could dilute the percentage ownership interests of our stockholders, and the new capital stock or other new securities could have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our current stockholders. We cannot assure you that sufficient additional funds will be available to us when needed or desired or that, if available, such funds can be obtained on terms favorable to us and our stockholders and acceptable to our lender, if its consent is required. Our inability to obtain sufficient additional capital on a timely basis on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Restrictions imposed on us by the terms of our current credit facilities could limit how we conduct our business and our ability to raise additional capital. The terms of our current credit facilities contain financial and operating covenants that place restrictions on our activities and limit the discretion of our management. These covenants place significant restrictions on our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • create liens or other encumbrances; • issue or redeem our securities; • make dividend payments and investments; • amend our charter documents; • sell or otherwise dispose of our or our subsidiaries’ stock or assets; • liquidate or dissolve; • merge or consolidate with other companies; or • reorganize, recapitalize or engage in a similar business transaction. Any future financing arrangements will likely contain similar or more restrictive covenants. As a result of these restrictions, we may be: • limited in how we conduct our business; • unable to raise additional capital, through debt or equity financings, when needed for our operations and growth; and • unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. 23 Table of Contents In addition, our credit facilities contain other customary covenants, including covenants which requires us to met specified financial ratios and financial tests. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to comply with all these covenants in the future. If a default in our credit facility is declared and not waived or cured, then we may be unable to borrow under it or any other credit mechanism and the entire indebtedness then owed under the credit facility could be accelerated, and we may not be able to repay it. In addition, if the credit facility matures and is not renewed, we may not be able to obtain successor financing on acceptable terms. The need to comply with the terms of our debt obligations may also limit our ability to obtain additional financing and our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business. If as a result of these covenants, we are unable to pursue a favorable transaction or course of action or to respond to an unfavorable event, condition or circumstance, then our business could be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to effectively manage our future growth, our ability to market and sell our products and services and to provide quality service to our customers may be adversely affected. Our revenues, business operations and number of employees have grown significantly in recent years, primarily in response to the growth in our business. We anticipate further growth, especially as we expand into new lines of business and geographic areas. This growth has placed in the past, and we expect it will continue to place in the future, a significant strain on our management and operational resources, including our ability to timely and cost-effectively satisfy our customers’ demand requirements. We must plan and manage our growth effectively in order to continue to offer quality and successful products and services and to achieve revenue growth and profitability in rapidly evolving markets. If we are not able to effectively manage our growth in the future, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We must also continue to hire, train and manage new employees at a rapid rate. If our new hires perform poorly, if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing and integrating these new employees, or if we are not successful in training our existing employees, our business may be harmed. Our management of the WaterSecure operations, a private energy program, presents risks to us. WaterSecure is our subsidiary that manages and holds a minority ownership interest in the WaterSecure operations, a private program that owns and operates oil and gas production water disposal facilities. While WaterSecure does not intend to form any new private programs, it may from time to time increase its economic interest in the program or initiate or manage actions intended to expand the program’s assets or activities. This program was financed by a private placement of equity interests raising capital to acquire the assets and business operated by the program. Our management of this program presents risks to us, including: • lawsuits by investors in this program who become dissatisfied with the results of the program; • material adverse changes in the business, results of operations and financial condition of the program due to events, conditions and factors outside of our control, such as general and local conditions affecting the oil and gas market generally and the revenues of the program specifically; • hazards of oil production water disposal facilities, including fires and environmental hazards, such as the 2008 fires, that can result in loss of life, personal injuries, damages to facilities that may not be insured and lost business, revenues, net income and cash flows due to the interruptions caused by such hazards; • risks inherent in managing a program and taking significant actions that affect its investors; • changes in the regulatory environment relating to the program; • reliance upon significant suppliers and customers by the program; and • changes in technology. If any of these risks materialize and we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may be unable to acquire other businesses, technology or companies or engage in other strategic transactions, or to successfully realize the benefits or avoid the difficulties of any such strategic transactions. In the past, in addition to organic growth, we have grown by acquiring complimentary businesses, technologies, services and products and entering into other strategic transactions that have enabled us to increase our products and service offerings, expand our markets and add experienced management. As part of our business 24 Table of Contents strategy, we expect to continue to evaluate and consider potential strategic transactions, including business combinations, acquisitions and dispositions and strategic alliances, on an ongoing basis as they present themselves to facilitate our ability to enhance our existing and to develop new businesses, products, services and technology, and to enhance our financial condition, results of operations and stockholder value. At any given time we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of these types of transactions, and any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. However, we do not know if we will be able to identify any future opportunities that we believe will be beneficial for us. Even if we are able to identify an appropriate business opportunity, we may not be able to successfully consummate the transaction, and even if we do consummate such a transaction we may be unable to obtain the benefits or avoid the difficulties and risks of such transaction. Any future acquisition involves risks commonly encountered in business relationships, including: • difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, systems, technologies, products and services of the acquired business; • the technologies, products or businesses that we acquire may not achieve expected levels of revenue, profitability, benefits or productivity; • difficulties in retaining, training, motivating and integrating key personnel; • diversion of management’s time and resources away from our normal daily operations; • difficulties in successfully incorporating licensed or acquired technology and rights into our product and service offerings; • difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies within the combined organizations; • difficulties in retaining relationships with customers, employees and suppliers of the acquired company; • risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience; • potential disruptions of our ongoing businesses; and • unexpected costs and unknown risks and liabilities associated with the acquisitions. For these reasons, future acquisitions could materially and adversely affect our existing businesses. Moreover, we cannot predict the accounting treatment of any acquisition, in part because we cannot be certain whether current accounting regulations, conventions or interpretations will prevail in the future. In addition, to finance any future acquisitions, it may be necessary for us to incur additional indebtedness or raise additional funds through public or private financings. These financings may not be available to us at all, or if available may not be available on terms satisfactory to us or to those whose consents are required for such financings. Available equity or debt financings may materially and adversely affect our business and operations and, in the case of equity financings, may significantly dilute the percentage ownership interests of our stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will make any additional acquisitions or that any acquisitions, if made, will be successful, will assist us in the accomplishment of our business strategy, or will generate sufficient revenues to offset the associated costs and other adverse effects or will otherwise result in us receiving the intended benefits of the acquisition. In addition, we cannot assure you that any acquisition of new businesses or technology will lead to the successful development of new or enhanced products and services, or that any new or enhanced products and services, if developed, will achieve market acceptance or prove to be profitable. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, we could lose important proprietary technology, which could materially and adversely affect our business. Our success and ability to compete depends, in substantial part, upon our ability to develop and protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights to distinguish our products, services and technology from those of our competitors. The unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights and proprietary technology by others could materially harm our business. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, along with confidentiality agreements, contractual provisions and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. Although we hold copyrights and trademarks in our business, and we have applied for a patent and the registration of a number of new trademarks and service marks and intend to 25 Table of Contents introduce new trademarks and service marks, we believe that the success of our business depends more upon our proprietary technology, information, processes and know-how than on patents or trademark registrations. In addition, much of our proprietary information and technology may not be patentable. We may not be successful in obtaining any patents or in registering new marks. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, existing laws afford only limited protection, and our actions may be inadequate to protect our rights or to prevent others from claiming violations of their proprietary rights. Unauthorized third parties may attempt to copy, reverse engineer or otherwise obtain, use or exploit aspects of our products and services, develop similar technology independently, or otherwise obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. We cannot assure you that our competitors will not independently develop technology similar or superior to our technology or design around our intellectual property. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights as fully or in the same manner as the laws of the United States. We may need to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, and to determine the validity and scope of other companies’ proprietary rights in the future. However, litigation could result in significant costs or in the diversion of management and financial resources. We cannot assure you that any such litigation will be successful or that we will prevail over counterclaims against us. Our failure to protect any of our important intellectual property rights or any litigation that we resort to in order to enforce those rights could materially and adversely affect our business. If we face claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties, we could encounter expensive litigation, be liable for significant damages or incur restrictions on our ability to sell our products and services. Although we are not aware of any present infringement of our products, services or technology on the intellectual property rights of others, we cannot be certain that our products, services and technologies do not or in the future will not infringe on the valid intellectual property rights held by third parties. In addition, we cannot assure you that third parties will not claim that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. In recent years, there has been a significant amount of litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. In the future, we may be a party to litigation as a result of an alleged infringement of others’ intellectual property. Successful infringement claims against us could result in substantial monetary liability, require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, or otherwise materially disrupt the conduct of our business. In addition, even if we prevail on these claims, this litigation could be time-consuming and expensive to defend or settle, and could result in the diversion of our time and attention and of operational resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling, incorporating or using our products and services that use the infringed intellectual property; • obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all; or • redesign the products and services that use the technology. If we are forced to take any of these actions, our business may be seriously harmed. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Our business could suffer if we cannot maintain and expand our current strategic alliances and develop new alliances. One element of our business strategy is the development of corporate relationships such as strategic alliances with other companies and businesses to provide products and services to existing and new markets and to develop new products and services and enhancements to existing products and services. We believe that our success in the future in penetrating new markets will depend in large part on our ability to maintain these relationships and to cultivate additional or alternative relationships. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to develop new corporate relationships, or that these relationships will be successful in achieving their purposes. Our failure to 26 Table of Contents continue our existing corporate relationships and develop new relationships could materially and adversely affect our business. When we become unable to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes, either because we exhaust them or because we lose the ability to use them for any reason, we would face exposure to significant tax liabilities in the future, adversely affecting our net income and cash flow. We recorded taxable income in fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2007, and expect to generate taxable income in fiscal 2008. We have been able to offset our taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes by utilizing our net operating loss carryforwards, which we refer to as NOLs, and intend to do so in the future. As of December 31, 2007, our available NOLs were approximately $40.6 million, of which $4.5 million expire over the next three years. When our aggregate future net income, for federal income tax purposes, exceeds the amount of our available NOLs, we will commence incurring liability for federal income taxes, which will adversely affect our net income, cash flow and available cash resources. In addition, our ability to utilize these NOLs is subject to significant conditions and restrictions. If we fail to meet these conditions and restrictions, we may be unable to fully utilize some or all of these NOLs. For example, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” for U.S. federal income tax purposes is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its NOLs to offset future taxable income. A corporation generally undergoes an “ownership change” when the ownership of its stock, by value, changes by more than 50 percentage points over any three year period. Limitations imposed on our ability to use NOLs to offset future taxable income could cause us to pay U.S. federal income taxes earlier than we otherwise would if such limitations were not in effect, adversely affecting our future net income and cash flow. Similar rules and limitations may apply for sate income tax purposes as well. We may not be able to complete the sale of the assets of Metretek Florida even though we believe that sale is in our long-term best interests. In December 2007, our board of directors adopted a plan to sell substantially all of the assets of Metretek Florida, after determining that such a sale would be in our best interests. On March 14, 2008, Metretek Florida entered into a definitive purchase agreement to sell substantially all of its assets and business for a total purchase price of $2,250,000. Although the completion of the sale is currently anticipated to occur in late March or early April 2008, because the sale is subject to customary closing conditions we cannot provide assurance that all those conditions will be met. If a sale is not consummated, then our business could be adversely affected. Downturns in general economic and market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business. There is always a potential for a downturn in general economic and market conditions, and a downturn in the U. S. economy may have recently commenced. Moreover, there is increasing uncertainty in the energy and technology markets attributed to many factors, including international terrorism and strife, global economic conditions and strong competitive forces. Our future results of operations may experience substantial fluctuations from period to period as a consequence of these factors, and such conditions and other factors affecting capital spending may affect the timing of orders from major customers. An economic downturn coupled with a decline in our revenues could adversely affect our ability meet our capital requirement, support our working capital requirements and growth objectives, maintain our existing financing arrangements, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result, any economic downturns generally or in our markets specifically, particularly those affecting industrial and commercial users of natural gas and electricity, would have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to the Ownership of our Shares Our charter documents, as well as Delaware law, contain anti-takeover provisions that could discourage or prevent a third-party acquisition of our common stock, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Some provisions in our second restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws, as well as some provisions of Delaware law, could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a third party from attempting to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to stockholders, including transactions in which investors might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions could also limit the price that 27 Table of Contents investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions could also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors in which only approximately one-third of the total board members are elected at each annual meeting; • limitations on the ability of stockholders to change the authorized number of directors or to fill vacancies on the board of directors; • prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors; • provisions permitting a director to be re-elected in an uncontested election even if less than a majority of the shares voted in that election vote in favor of that director; • authority for our board of directors to issue shares of our common stock and our preferred stock, and to determine the price, voting and other rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of undesignated shares of preferred stock, without any vote by or approval of our stockholders; • super-majority voting requirements to effect material amendments to our second restated certificate and by-laws; • a limitation on which persons may call a special meeting of stockholders; • a prohibition on stockholders acting by written consent without a meeting; • a fair price provision that sets minimum price requirements for potential acquirers under certain conditions; • anti-greenmail provisions which limit our ability to repurchase shares of common stock from significant stockholders; • restrictions under Delaware law on mergers and other business combinations between us and any 15% stockholders; and • advance notice requirements for director nominations and for stockholder proposals. In addition, we have entered into employment agreements with most of our executive officers which, among other things, include provide for severance payments and accelerated vesting of benefits, such as accelerated vesting of restricted stock and stock options, upon a change in control or circumstances after a change in control. Our stockholder rights agreement makes effecting a change of control more difficult, which may discourage offers for shares of our common stock. Our board of directors has adopted an amended and restated rights agreement. Our rights agreement may have the effect of delaying, deterring, or preventing changes in our management or control of us, which may discourage potential acquirers who otherwise might wish to acquire us without the consent of the board of directors. Under the rights plan, if a person or group acquires 15% or more of our common stock, all holders of rights (other than the acquiring stockholder) may, upon payment of the purchase price then in effect, purchase common stock having a value of twice the purchase price. In the event that we are involved in a merger or other similar transaction where we are not the surviving corporation, all holders of rights (other than the acquiring stockholder) shall be entitled, upon payment of the then in effect purchase price, to purchase common stock of the surviving corporation having a value of twice the purchase price. The rights will expire on November 30, 2011, unless we extend the terms of the rights agreement or we earlier redeem or exchange the rights. We have not in the past and we do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend on retaining any future earnings to fund our operations and growth and do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future on the common stock. Future dividends, if any, will be determined by our board of directors, based upon our earnings, financial condition, capital resources, capital requirements, charter restrictions, contractual restrictions and such other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. 28 Table of Contents The market for our common stock is volatile and subject to extreme trading price and volume fluctuations. The market price and volume of our common stock has in the past been, and in the future is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. For example, since January 1, 2007, the sales price of our common stock has fluctuated from a low of $10.68 to a high of $16.11. The stock market in general, and the market for energy companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years, and these fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. A number of factors could cause wide fluctuations in the market price and trading volume of our common stock to continue in the future, including: • actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, significant technical innovations, new products or services, product improvements, significant contracts, strategic relationships or capital commitments; • the receipt, deferral or loss of significant customer orders, including sustaining and growing revenues following the substantial completion in 2008 of significant contracts from Publix, our largest customer; • the introduction of new products and services by us or our competitors; • the commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation or other legal or regulatory proceedings; • announcements by us or our competitors about the success or status of business; • conditions or trends in the energy and technology industries in general, and in the particular markets we serve; • changes by us in revenue or earnings guidance; • recommendations by securities analysts; • changes in, or the failure by us to meet, securities analysts’ estimates and expectations; • the lower coverage by securities analysts and the media of smaller issuers like us; • changes in the market valuation of other energy or technology companies; • additions or departures of key personnel; • sales of our common stock by our directors, executive officers and significant stockholders; and • general economic, business and market conditions. Many of these factors are beyond our control. The occurrence of any one or more of these factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fall, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, broad fluctuations in price and volume may be unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. Any significant fluctuations in the future might result in a material decline in the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation is often expensive to defend or settle and could divert management’s attention and operational resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, even if we ultimately prevail in the litigation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 29 Table of Contents have not resolved the additional comment, although we believe that we have resolved all other SEC comments. We will continue to cooperate fully with the SEC to resolve this remaining comment. 