Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and future operating results may be affected by many risks, uncertainties and other factors, including those set forth below and those contained elsewhere in this report. If any of the following risks were to occur, our business, affairs, assets, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. When we say that something could have a material adverse effect on us or on our business, we mean that it could have one or more of these effects. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The uncertain economic recovery, including continuing challenging business and market conditions, and inconsistent financial and capital markets, has the potential to materially and adversely affect our business and financial results in future periods. The United States and world economies have been slow to recover from the deep economic recession and financial crisis that impacted the business community and the financial markets starting in the 2007-09 period. There is no certainty as to whether the economic recovery will continue, or if it does continue the pace of that recovery. Adverse economic conditions could negatively affect our customers and our markets, and thus negatively impact our business and results of operations by extending the length of our sales cycle and causing potential customers to delay, defer or decline to make purchases of our products and services due to uncertainties surrounding the future performance of their businesses, limitations on their capital expenditures due to internal budget constraints, the inability to obtain financing in the capital markets, and the adverse effects of the economy on them. As a result, if the recovery ends and economic conditions and factors worsen, it could limit our growth and expansion and otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results can fluctuate significantly from period to period, which makes our operating results difficult to predict and can cause our operating results in any particular period to be less than comparable periods and expectations from time to time. Our operating results have fluctuated significantly from quarter-to-quarter, period-to-period and year-to-year during our operating history and are likely to continue to fluctuate in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Factors that affect our operating results include the following: • the effects of general economic and financial conditions, including the slow and uncertain economic recovery and the inconsistent capital and credit markets, the potential economic consequences if critical fiscal, deficit and budgetary deadlines are not met, and the potential for economic and market challenges to continue or recur in the future, negatively impacting our business operations and our revenues and net income, including the negative impact these conditions could have on the timing of and amounts of orders from our customers, and the potential these factors have to negatively impact our access to capital to finance our business; • the size, timing and terms of sales and orders, especially large customer orders, as well as the effects of the timing of phases of completion of projects for customers, and customers delaying, deferring or canceling purchase orders or making smaller purchases than expected; • our ability to make strategic acquisitions of key businesses, technologies and other assets and resources, to realize the expected benefits from such acquisitions, to effectively integrate the acquired businesses, assets and personnel in our organization, to grow acquired businesses and to manage the costs related to such acquisitions, including our recent acquisitions of PowerSecure Solar, ESCO and Solais; • our strategy to increase our revenues from long-term recurring revenue projects, recognizing that increasing our revenues from recurring revenue projects will require up-front capital expenditures and will protract our revenue and profit recognition from those projects over a longer period compared to turn-key sales, while increasing our gross margins over the long-term; • our ability to sell, complete and recognize satisfactory levels of near-term revenues and net income related to our project-based sales and product and service revenues, which are recognized and billed as they are completed, in order to maintain our profitability and cash flow and to satisfy our financial covenants in our credit facility and to successfully finance the recurring revenue portion of our business model; 25 Table of Contents • our ability to maintain and grow our Utility Infrastructure revenues, and to maintain and increase pricing, utilization rates and productivity rates, given the significant levels of vehicles, tools and labor in which we have invested and which are required to serve utilities, and the risk that our utility customers will change work volumes or pricing, or will displace us from providing services; • our ability to maintain our safety performance and safety record at levels that meet or exceed the standards of our utility customers, the inability of which could cause us to be abruptly and immediately released from our work assignments with those utilities, and to lose the opportunity to obtain additional or new work from those utilities; • our ability to obtain adequate supplies of key components and materials of suitable quality for our products on a timely and cost-effective basis, including the impact of potential supply line constraints, substandard parts, changes in environmental requirements, and fluctuations in the cost of raw materials and commodity prices, including without limitation with respect to our LED lighting products and third party manufacturing arrangements we have, and new arrangements we are establishing to source these products and components from vendors in Asia; • the performance of our products, services and technologies, and the ability of our systems to meet the performance standards they are designed and built to deliver to our customers, including but not limited to our recurring revenue projects for which we retain the on-going risks associated with the performance and ownership of the systems; • our ability to access significant capital resources on a timely basis in order to fund working capital requirements, fulfill large customer orders, finance capital required for recurring revenue projects, and finance working capital and equipment for our Utility Infrastructure products and services; • our ability to develop new products, services and technologies with competitive advantages and positive customer value propositions; • permitting and regulatory or customer-caused delays on projects; • our ability to implement our business plans and strategies and the timing of such implementation; • the pace of revenue and profit realization from our new businesses and the development and growth of their markets, including the timing, pricing and market acceptance of our new products and services; • the amount of costs and expenses we incur to support our growth internally and through acquisitions, and our success in controlling and reducing our costs and expenses; • changes in our pricing policies and those of our competitors, including the introduction of lower cost competing technologies and the potential for them to impact our pricing and our profit margins; • variations in the length of our sales cycle and in the product and service delivery and construction process; • changes in the mix of our products and services having differing margins; • changes in our expenses, including prices for materials such as copper, aluminum and other raw materials, labor costs and other components of our products and services, fuel prices including diesel, natural gas, oil and gasoline, and our ability to hedge or otherwise manage these prices to protect our costs and revenues, minimize the impact of volatile exchange rates and mitigate unforeseen or unanticipated expenses; • changes in our valuation allowance for our net deferred tax asset, and the resulting impact on our current tax expenses, future tax expenses and balance sheet account balances; • the effects of severe weather conditions, such as hurricanes and major wind and ice storms, on the business operations of our customers, and the potential effect of such conditions on our results of operations; • the life cycles of our products and services, and competitive alternatives in the marketplace; • budgeting cycles of utilities and other industrial, commercial and institutional customers, including impacts of the slow economic recovery and inconsistent capital markets conditions on capital projects and other spending items; • the development and maintenance of business relationships with strategic partners such as utilities and large customers; 26 Table of Contents • economic conditions and regulations in the energy industry, especially in the electric utility industry, including the effects of changes in energy prices, electricity pricing and utility tariffs; • changes in the prices charged by our suppliers; • the effects of governmental regulations and regulatory changes in our markets, including emissions regulations; and • the effects of litigation, warranty claims and other claims and proceedings. Because we have little or no control over many of these factors, our operating results are difficult to predict. Any adverse change in any of these factors could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Our revenues, net income and other operating results are heavily dependent upon the size and timing of customer orders and projects, and the timing of the completion of those projects. The timing of our receipt of large individual orders, and of project completion, is difficult for us to predict. Because our operating expenses are based on anticipated revenues over the mid- and long-term and because a high percentage of our operating expenses are relatively fixed, a shortfall or delay in recognizing revenues can cause our operating results to vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and can result in significant operating losses or declines in profit margins in any particular quarter. If our revenues fall below our expectations in any particular quarter, we may not be able, or it may not be prudent for us, to reduce our expenses rapidly in response to the revenue shortfall, which can result in us suffering significant operating losses or declines in profit margins in that quarter. As we develop new lines of business, our revenues and costs will fluctuate because generally new businesses require start-up expenses and revenues need time to develop, and these start-up timing issues can result in losses in early periods in new businesses if even they later become financially successful. Another factor that could cause material fluctuations in our quarterly results is an increase in recurring, as opposed to project-based, sources of revenue we generate for our distributed generation and utility infrastructure projects. To date, the majority of our revenues have consisted of project-based distributed generation revenues, project-based utility infrastructure revenues and sales of LED lighting fixtures, which are recognized as the sales occur or as the projects are completed. Recurring revenue projects, compared to project-based sales, are generally more profitable over time, and growth in this business model can result in delayed recognition of revenue and net income, especially in the short-term. Due to these factors and the other risks discussed in this report, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter, period-to-period or year-to-year comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. Quarterly, period and annual comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful or indicative of future performance. As a result, it is likely that, from time to time, our results of operations or our revenue backlog could fall below historical levels or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline significantly. We may not be able to continue to grow and remain profitable or reach or exceed the levels of growth, revenues and profits that we target in the future. While in recent years we have experienced a high rate of growth and our business has generally been profitable on an annual basis, in future periods we may not be able to continue our recent levels of growth in our revenues or to maintain or increase our profitability or to meet the levels of growth and the financial results we expect or target, due to one or more of the factors listed in this item or of the other factors discussed elsewhere in this report. Also, as a result of costs we incur in connection with the growth and expansion of our existing businesses, products and services and in connection with acquisitions and start-up time for new businesses, products and services, and also as a result of other expenses and capital expenditures we may incur from time to time in the short-term in operating our business or in our efforts to grow our business, we might not be able to maintain or grow our profitability. As a result, there is no assurance that we will continue to generate revenues and profits in future periods that exceed or are comparable to prior periods, or that we will be profitable in any particular future period. If our future growth rates, revenues and margins do not meet our expectations, or if our operating expenses are higher than we anticipate, then our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents We may incur liabilities or suffer other significant adverse financial or reputational consequences, including the abrupt and immediate loss of revenues and income from the loss of business, relating to occupational health and safety matters and other accident and safety risks and hazards that are inherent to our operations. Portions of our operations are subject to many hazards and risks inherent in the servicing and operation of electrical power lines, including electrocutions, fires, mechanical failures, weather-related incidents, cave-ins, heavy equipment operation and transportation accidents. For example, we face risks related to the manufacture, installation, sale, servicing and operation of electrical equipment such as our distributed generation system equipment and utility infrastructure construction, maintenance and service work, including electric shocks, falls and other physical hazards inherent in working with electrical equipment. These hazards and risks could result in personal injuries, loss of life, environmental damage, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and other consequential damages, some of which could occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or could exceed our insurance coverage, and could lead to the suspension of certain of our operations, large damage claims, damage to our safety reputation, loss of business and, in extreme cases, criminal liability. While we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in our occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. Although we have taken what we believe are appropriate precautions, we have suffered accidents in the past and will likely suffer additional accidents in the future. In addition, the risks inherent in our business are such that we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at reasonable rates. Our safety record is an important consideration for many of our customers. If our safety record does not meet the standards of our customers or deteriorates or if we were to suffer substantial penalties or criminal prosecution for violation of health and safety regulations, our customers could cancel our existing projects and relationships or not award us future business. Therefore, the occurrence of a significant accident, or of another risk, event or hazard, which is not fully covered by insurance, could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. Even if fully covered by insurance, one or more accidents or other safety risks or hazards could materially and adversely affect our business due to the impact on our reputation for safety and the potential loss of business, revenues and income from customers. For example, if our safety performance and safety record do not meet the standards of our utility customers, we could be abruptly and immediately released from our work assignments with those utilities and from other utilities, and we could lose the opportunity to obtain additional or new work from those utilities, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, net income and cash flows. We may require a substantial amount of additional funds to finance our capital requirements and the growth of our business, and we may not be able to generate or raise a sufficient amount of funds, or be able to do so on terms favorable to us and our stockholders, or at all. Although we believe we have adequate liquidity and capital resources to fund our operations internally for the near-term, due in large part to the receipt of cash proceeds from a June 2013 term loan under our credit facility and from our August 2013 public offering of stock, as well as the availability of revolving loans under our credit facility, over time we may need to obtain additional capital to fund our capital obligations and to finance the continued growth and expansion of our business. For example, we may need substantial capital to finance the development and growth of our recurring revenue projects, which are capital intensive. In addition, each of our Distributed Generation, Energy Efficiency and Utility Infrastructure products and services have experienced high growth rates, which have required, and will likely continue to require, additional funds to finance working capital needs due to long payment cycles, as well as investments in operational equipment. Moreover, from time to time as part of our business plan, we evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses and technologies, such as the recent acquisitions discussed elsewhere in this report. Also, unanticipated events, and other events over which we have no control, could increase our expenses or decrease our ability to generate revenues from product and service sales, necessitating additional capital. We continually evaluate our cash flow requirements as well as our opportunity to raise additional capital in order to improve our financial position. In addition, we continually evaluate opportunities to optimize the availability, cost and terms of our debt facilities. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit facility, raise additional capital or replace our current credit facility when needed or desired, or that the terms of any such financing will be favorable to us and our stockholders. Our credit facility, which was amended and restated in June 2013, consists of a revolving credit line of $20 million and two term loans, a $25 million term loan maturing in 2020 and a $2.6 million term loan maturing in November 2016. The proceeds under our credit facility are available for our capital requirements subject to our meeting certain financial and operating covenants. The revolving portion of our credit facility matures in November 2016. As of December 31, 2013, we had no balance outstanding under the revolving portion of our credit facility and a $25.3 million balance under the term loans, and we were in full compliance with all our covenants. 28 Table of Contents Our ability to borrow under the revolving credit facility is subject to our ability to satisfy certain financial covenants, and our ability to satisfy those covenants depends principally upon our ability to achieve positive operating performance including but not limited to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, and ratios thereof, as well as certain balance sheet ratios. If we are unable to fully satisfy the financial covenants of the credit facility, and any such failure is not waived by our lenders, then we will be in breach of the terms of our credit facility. Our obligations under the credit facility are secured by a first priority security interest in substantially all of the assets of our operating subsidiaries, which have guaranteed the credit facility. Any breach of the covenants in the credit facility could result in a default under the credit facility, and lead to an acceleration of the payment of all outstanding debt owed, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. In such case, we would seek an amendment, or a waiver of any breach of any term of our credit agreement, or consider other options, such as raising capital through an equity issuance to pay down debt, which could be dilutive to stockholders. There can be no assurance that our lenders would agree to any such amendment or waiver. In the event we obtain such an amendment or waiver under our credit agreement, we would likely incur additional fees and higher interest expense. Moreover, we could be adversely affected by the failure of any of our lenders to fulfill their commitments under our credit facility, which risk would be primarily due to potentially difficult conditions in the financial markets and banking industry. Our credit facility is provided by a syndicate of financial institutions, with each institution agreeing severally, and not jointly, to make revolving credit loans to us in accordance with the terms of the credit agreement. If any of these financial institutions were to default on its obligation to fund its commitment, the portion of the credit facility provided by such defaulting financial institution would not be available to us. We may seek to raise any needed or desired additional capital from the proceeds of public or private equity or debt offerings at the holding company level or at the subsidiary level or both, through asset or business sales, from traditional credit financings or from other financing sources. Our ability to obtain additional capital when needed or desired will depend on many factors, including market conditions, our operating performance and investor sentiment, and thus cannot be assured. In addition, depending on the structure and amount, raising capital could require the consent of our lenders. Even if we are able to raise additional capital, the terms of any financing could be adverse to the interests of our stockholders. For example, the terms of a debt financing could include covenants that restrict our ability to operate our business or to expand our operations, while the terms of an equity financing, involving the issuance of capital stock or of securities convertible into capital stock, could dilute the percentage ownership interests of our stockholders, and the new capital stock or other new securities could have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our current stockholders. We cannot provide any assurance that sufficient additional funds will be available to us when needed or desired or that, if available, such funds can be obtained on terms favorable to us and our stockholders and acceptable to our lending group, if its consent is required. Our inability to obtain sufficient additional capital on a timely basis on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because a portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety or performance bonds, we may not be able to compete for or work on certain projects if we are not able to maintain sufficient bonding capacity. In the ordinary course of business, we are required by certain customers to post surety or performance bonds in connection with services that we provide to them. These bonds provide a guarantee to the customer that we will perform under the terms of a contract and that we will pay subcontractors and vendors. If we fail to perform under a contract or to pay subcontractors and vendors, the customer may demand that the surety make payments or provide services under the bond. We must reimburse the surety for any expenses or outlays it incurs. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $88 million in surety bonds outstanding, including those surety bonds issued in connection with the contracts and projects acquired in the acquisition of the ESCO business in February 2013. Based upon the current status of our contracts and projects, we estimate our remaining exposure on these surety bonds was approximately $30 million at December 31, 2013. Sureties issue or continue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing any bonds. Current or future market conditions, including the current state of the construction industry, the bonding market and general lending activity, as well as ultimately our performance on contracts, could have a negative effect on surety providers. These market conditions, as well as changes in our surety providers’ assessment of our operating and financial risk, could also cause our surety providers to decline to issue or renew, or substantially reduce the amount of, bonds for our work 29 Table of Contents and could increase our bonding costs. These actions could be taken on short notice. If our surety providers were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, our alternatives would include seeking bonding capacity from other sureties, finding more business that does not require bonds and posting other forms of collateral for project performance, such as letters of credit or cash. We may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all. Accordingly, if we were to experience an interruption or reduction in our availability of bonding capacity, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects and such interruption or reduction could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we were required to make any reimbursements to our sureties for bond-related costs, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Because we are dependent upon the utility industry for a large portion of our current and future revenues, reductions or deferrals of purchases of our products and services by utilities or their customers could materially and adversely affect our business. One of the central aspects of our marketing approach involves partnering with utilities and selling our products and services to their large commercial, institutional, federal and industrial customers. We have generated a significant portion of our revenues using this approach. However, the purchasing patterns of these customers are cyclical and generally characterized by long budgeting, purchasing and regulatory processes. These customers typically issue requests for quotes and proposals, establish committees to evaluate the purchase proposals, review different technical options with vendors, analyze performance and cost-benefit justifications and perform a regulatory review, in addition to applying budgetary approval processes and operational and financial justifications. In addition, utilities and their customers may defer purchases of our products and services if the utilities reduce capital expenditures as the result of difficult economic and financial market conditions, mergers and acquisitions, pending or unfavorable regulatory decisions, poor revenues due to weather conditions or rising interest rates, among other factors. These unfavorable conditions could reduce the demand for our products and services and materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, changes in utility spending and the demand by utilities for our services can be immediate and abrupt, and a reduction in demand for our services by utilities could cause us to have equipment and personnel that are not being utilized, significantly affecting our revenue and profits. Restrictions imposed on us by the terms of our credit facility limit how we conduct our business and our ability to raise additional capital. The terms of our credit facility contain financial and operating covenants that place restrictions on our activities and limit the discretion of our management. These covenants place significant restrictions on our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • allow our cash position to fall below certain limits; • create liens or other encumbrances; • issue or redeem our securities; • make dividend payments, stock repurchases and investments; • incur capital expenditures above certain limits; • incur leasing obligations above certain limits; • amend our charter documents; • sell or otherwise dispose of our or our subsidiaries’ stock or assets; • liquidate or dissolve; • make certain types of acquisitions above specified limits; and • reorganize, recapitalize or engage in a similar business transaction. Any future financing arrangements will likely contain covenants that are similar to, and could be more restrictive than, those under our current credit facility. As a result of these restrictions, we may be: • limited in how we conduct our business; • unable to raise additional capital, through debt or equity financings, when needed for our operations and growth; and • unable to compete effectively, make desired acquisitions or to take advantage of new business opportunities. 30 Table of Contents The need to comply with the terms of our debt obligations may also limit our ability to obtain additional financing and our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business. If, as a result of these covenants, we are unable to pursue a favorable transaction or course of action or to respond to an unfavorable event, condition or circumstance, then our business could be materially and adversely affected. From time to time, a large portion of our revenues and operating results can be driven by significant purchases by a concentrated number of customers, and if we do not continue to receive additional significant purchase commitments in the future from those or other customers, our revenues and operating results could be adversely affected. From time to time, we have a concentrated number of customers that account for a large portion of our consolidated revenues during a year, and because the majority of our revenues are project-based, we receive our revenues from these orders over a limited period of time. As a result, we are continually replacing revenue from current customers and projects with revenue from new customers and projects, while at the same time working to grow our revenues and our business. See “Item 1. Business—Customers” above. While we have been diversifying our products and services, our markets and our customer base in order to reduce our dependence on any one or small group of customers in the future, there is no assurance we will be successful in diversifying our business or obtaining additional significant purchase commitments from other customers to replace work that has been completed. If we are unable to obtain additional significant purchase orders in the future and to otherwise diversify and expand our customer base, our revenues and net income in future periods could be adversely affected. Our success is continually dependent on our ability to develop new relationships and to maintain beneficial relationships with our current utility partners and with significant new customers and to generate additional project-based revenues, and also recurring revenues, from those relationships. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to attract additional large customer orders in the future to replace revenues from large customer orders in prior years, or that our existing customers will continue to purchase our products and services in future years in the same amounts as in prior years. Our business and operating results would be adversely affected by: • the loss of, or the completion of our work on orders from, one or more large customers; • any cancellation of orders by, or any reduction or delay in sales to, these customers, including actual customer purchases being less than originally expected when we received the project or sales awards; • the failure of large purchase commitments to be renewed or to recur, and the failure of us to develop new business to replace orders that have been executed and recognized; • delays in timing of future projects with existing and new customers; • our inability to successfully develop relationships with additional customers; or • future price concessions that we may have to make to these customers. We do not have long-term commitments for significant revenues with most of our customers and may be unable to retain existing customers, attract new customers or replace departing customers with new customers that can provide comparable revenues and profits. Because we generally do not obtain firm, long-term volume purchase commitments from our customers, most of our contracts and commitments from our customers are short-term and project-based. As long as most of our revenues continue to primarily be recognized on a project by project basis, we remain dependent upon securing new contracts in the future in order to sustain and grow our revenues. Accordingly, there is no assurance that our revenues and business will grow in the future. Our failure to maintain and expand our customer relationships could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Because a significant portion of our revenue backlog consists of non-contractual orders that can be deferred, reduced or cancelled by the customers, and because the calculation of our backlog involves the use of estimates, our revenue backlog may not be fully recognized or may not result in profits. A significant portion of our revenue backlog is comprised of master contracts, product contracts and orders that are subject to cancellation without penalty or are otherwise subject to delay, deferral or reduction from time to time. In addition, the determination of our backlog involves the use of estimates of the revenue that will be realized from certain customers we are serving under master contract relationships. Reductions in our backlog of sales could significantly reduce the revenue and profit we actually receive from orders included in our backlog. Because we often purchase inventory and equipment, and expend labor and other resources, on these orders, especially large orders, in advance of their delivery and completion, such delays or cancellations put us at risk of incurring expenses while the associated revenues may be deferred, reduced or even lost. In the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but typically have no contractual right to the total amount of revenues reflected in our backlog. In addition, projects may remain in backlog for extended periods of time. All of these uncertainties are heightened in times of adverse economic conditions due to their impact on our customers’ spending. Consequently, we cannot assure you that our estimates of backlog are accurate or that we will be able to realize all of the revenues in our backlog. Accordingly, if a significant amount of orders are deferred, reduced or cancelled, then our financial condition and results of operations, including our revenues, gross margins, net income and cash flow, could be materially and adversely affected. The quality and performance of our products are, in part, dependent on the quality of their component parts that we obtain from various suppliers as well as the specific design and purpose for which the parts are incorporated into our systems, which makes us susceptible to performance issues that arise from time to time that could materially and adversely affect our business, our financial results and our reputation. From time to time, in the ordinary course of business, we encounter issues with component parts that affect the performance of our distributed generation systems, switchgear systems, utility infrastructure products, engines, generators, alternators, breakers, fuel systems, LED and other lighting products, electrical circuit boards, power drivers, photovoltaic energy systems, inverters, and other complex electrical products. While we strive to utilize high quality component parts from reputable suppliers, and to back-up their quality and performance with manufacturers’ warranties, even the best parts and components have performance issues from time to time, and these performance issues create significant financial and operating risks to our business, operations and financial results. Because we regularly develop new products and technical designs, we often incorporate component parts into these new products in configurations, for uses, and in environments, for which limited experience exists, and that exposes us to performance risks which may not be covered by warranties, or may invalidate warranties or performance certifications. As we strive to bring solutions to customers with unique capabilities that provide performance and cost advantages, from time to time we use new suppliers and new products for applications where a track record of performance does not exist or is difficult to ascertain. For example, the quality and performance of our PowerBlocks, which is our proprietary generator system used in many of our distributed generation projects, is dependent upon the quality the engines we acquire from the manufacturer, and the quality and performance of our LED lighting products is dependent upon the quality of their component parts, many of which we acquire from other manufacturers and suppliers. From time to time we encounter situations in which the responsibility for the performance issues is unclear or is difficult to ascertain. Because of our strong focus on customer satisfaction, we often accept and pay the cost of repairs in excess of our contractual obligations. Additionally, the outcome of any performance disputes or warranty claims is inherently difficult to predict due to the uncertainty of technical solutions, cost, customer requirements, and the uncertainty inherent in litigation and disputes generally. As a result, there is no assurance we will not be adversely affected by these or other performance issues with key parts and components. Moreover, from time to time performance issues are not covered by manufacturer’s warranties, certain suppliers may not be financially able to fulfill their warranty obligations, and customers may also claim damages as a result of those performance issues. Also, the mere existence of performance issues, even if finally resolved with our suppliers and customers, can have an adverse effect on our reputation for quality, which could adversely affect our business. We estimate that from time to time we have performance issues related to component parts which have a cost basis of approximately 5-10% of our estimated annual revenues, although not necessarily limited to this amount, which are installed in equipment we own and have sold to various customers across our business lines, and additional performance issues could arise in the future. In addition, the failure or inadequate performance of these components pose potential material and adverse effects on our business, operations, reputation and financial results, 32 Table of Contents including reduced revenues for projects in process or future projects, reduced revenues for recurring revenue contracts which are dependent on the performance of the affected equipment, additional expenses and capital cost to repair or replace the affected equipment, inventory write-offs for defective components held in inventory, asset write-offs for company-owned systems which have been deployed, the cancellation or deferral of contracts by our customers, or claims made by our customers for damages as a result of performance issues. We have experienced performance issues with two types of component parts, in particular, which we have made progress in correcting or mitigating, but which continue to represent operational and financial risks to our business. One issue involves a component we incorporated into a distributed generation system configuration installed in many of the systems deployed for our customers, which has been deemed to invalidate the generator manufacturer’s warranty and may cause other customer issues and costs. Another issue involves generators from a certain supplier that have had performance issues in a distributed generation system we own, and for which we have a performance-based recurring revenue contract that is dependent on the system’s successful operation. In both of these matters, we have been actively working to correct and resolve the performance issues and have made progress in mitigating their risk, but the risk is not eliminated. Given that we continue to have risk related to these performance issues, and the inherent uncertainty in assessing and quantifying the costs and certainty regarding their resolution, we are unable to estimate the potential negative impacts from these two particular items, if any, in addition to other component part performance issues discussed above. In addition, we have not recorded any specific adjustment to our warranty reserve for these particular performance issues, other than our regular reserves for minor repairs, as the estimated cost, if any, of fulfilling our obligations for these matters within a possible range of outcomes is not determinable as of this date. Because our future success depends, in part, upon the success of our recurring revenue project business model, if we do not receive substantially all of the benefits anticipated by those projects or if one or more of the risks associated with those projects materializes, then our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. A growing amount of our revenues, cash flow and net income is generated by our recurring revenue projects, in which we install and own distributed generation systems and utility infrastructure and realize recurring revenues derived from regular fees paid by the customer to utilize these assets over a long-term contract, typically five to fifteen years. The revenues from these business arrangements include fixed fee contracts, variable fee contracts, and fees which are dependent on the energy cost reductions realized by our customers. While to date recurring revenue projects have constituted only a modest portion of our revenue base, they are growing, and we expect and intend that they will represent a more significant portion of our revenues in the future. The success of these recurring revenue projects is dependent upon our ability to realize the revenues over the life of the contracts and on our ability to manage the costs of those projects. Accordingly, if we do not realize most of the revenues of these recurring revenue projects, or if the costs to operate or maintain these systems increase significantly, including the cost of fuel, or if one or more material risks related to these projects discussed below materializes, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Under these recurring revenue projects, we derive recurring revenues from our customers. This recurring revenue stream enhances the size and dependability of our revenues, cash flow, gross margins and income over the long-term. However, the amount of anticipated recurring revenues and related gross margins and cash flows from these long-term projects are based on a number of assumptions and estimates, including those pertaining to customer demand, energy consumption, energy costs and savings, tariff structures, fuel cost, run time required to achieve the revenues, maintenance cost, our monitoring ability, the quality, reliability and availability of the associated equipment, our capital resources, and the initial and ongoing expenses of the projects. Changes in our estimates or assumptions causing us to fail to realize the benefits of these recurring revenue projects may result in the recurring revenues, gross margins on those revenues and cash flows we receive being substantially less than expected. Moreover, these recurring revenue projects have certain risks associated with them, in addition to the risks associated with our traditional turn-key distributed generation sales, due to our continued ownership of the underlying equipment and the nature of the relationship we have with the customers under these projects. These risks of engaging in a recurring revenue project include the following: • disputes arising with the customer about the project that ultimately results in either the customer requiring us, or in us determining, to remove the equipment from the customer’s site, which could result in a significant loss in revenues and cash flow until the equipment can be re-deployed in a new project or, if the equipment is not re-usable, a significant write-down of our assets; 33 Table of Contents • the financial and operational health of the customer and the risk that the customer’s electrical load is reduced, or the facility is abandoned or moved, which would reduce or eliminate the revenues expected from the arrangement and result in a portion of the cost of our system being unrecoverable; • our inability to receive the intended benefits from the project due to changes associated with the distributed generation model, such as due to changes in tariff structures or customer requirements; • our inability to receive recurring revenues from the project due to customer issues, such as deterioration in the customer’s ability to pay our ongoing fees or a dispute with the customer delaying, deferring or reducing the project fees payable to us, or the closure of the customer’s facility; • the failure of the equipment to properly function and to perform and deliver the intended benefits, which could result in claims by the customer for damages to its equipment, lost revenues and profits or safety issues and in attempts by the customer to cancel the contract related to the project or to refuse or to delay making payments in amounts we believe are due to us under those contracts; • new regulations, or changes in the interpretation of existing regulations, such as those pertaining to air emissions or those relating to the requirements and conditions for the ownership of power generation systems, that could render the project no longer economically viable, or technically obsolete, or legally impractical; • the costs of operating and maintaining the systems increase significantly, including fuel costs, and maintenance expenses, as well as the run time required to earn the revenues; • damages, payment delays and other issues due to issues with the performance of component parts; • injuries to persons caused by problems or failures of equipment owned by us; and • environmental matters, such as fuel spills, requiring costly and time-consuming remediation efforts and potentially subjecting us to fines and penalties related to environmental requirements and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot provide any assurance that we will realize substantially all the benefits that we expect, or that our business will not face some of the risks, including the risks discussed above, related to these recurring revenue projects. If we do not receive substantially all of the expected benefits, or if we face one or more significant risks, related to these recurring revenue projects, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to continue our recent rate of growth and profitability is dependent, in part, upon on our ability to maintain and accelerate the growth in our Utility Infrastructure revenues. Our growth rate in recent years has been fueled, in part, by the growth of our Utility Infrastructure revenues, especially revenues from transmission and distribution construction and maintenance, including substation construction and maintenance, advanced metering and lighting installations, and storm restoration. As a key part of our corporate growth strategy, our future growth will depend on our ability to continue to expand the scope of our utility relationships, customers and geographic service areas that we serve. This business is highly competitive and cyclical, and the storm restoration services are highly volatile and unpredictable. We have a significant amount of fixed costs associated with these operations, including personnel, vehicles, and equipment, and a loss of revenue from these services would significantly impact our profitability. In addition, in order to grow our profitability, we will need to provide services with enhanced margins and to manage our costs and expenses, such as fuel costs which are volatile and subject to unanticipated and uncontrollable increases that adversely affect our profitability. If our revenues fail to continue to grow, or if the margins associated with those revenues decline, then our business and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to continue our recent rate of growth and profitability is dependent, in part, upon on our ability to capture a sufficient share of the anticipated growth in the LED lighting markets. Our future growth depends, in part, upon the increased adoption and growth of the market for LED lighting products, and our ability to capture a growing profitable share of this market, as well as our ability to successfully manage our potential growth of customer demand for our LED-based products. Although the LED lighting market has grown rapidly in recent years, adoption of LED lighting is still relatively new and limited, and LED lighting faces significant challenges before it is adopted on a widespread basis. In order to manage our growth and business strategy effectively, we must: • develop and market LED-based lighting products that are responsive to customer needs and that compete successfully in the marketplace; 34 Table of Contents • secure adequate manufacturing facilities and equipment to meet anticipated customer demand, including successfully sourcing from cost-effective manufacturers, many of whom are located in Asia and other countries; • maintain a sufficient supply of raw materials to support our anticipated growth; and • invest in research and development, engineering, sales and marketing, technical support, distribution capabilities and administrative functions and successfully manage product lifecycles. In addition, our future profitability in this area is dependent upon our ability to manage our costs and expenses, and we have taken recent actions in this business area to restructure and streamline our operations and reduce our cost structure, including our cost of sales and overheads and enhance our manufacturing efficiencies, in large part as a result of our recent acquisition of Solais and its management. However, while we are focused on restructuring our costs and expenses in the near-term, over the long-term we expect to make investments to support our growth, and we may also have additional unexpected costs given the dynamic nature of the market. Additionally, such investments may take time to become fully operational and productive, and we also may not be able to expand quickly enough to serve market opportunities as they develop. There are also inherent execution risks in addressing our costs, especially as we move production to Asian manufacturers, which could increase costs and reduce our operating results, including design and cost overruns, poor production process yields and reduced quality control during the start-up phase. We expect to incur some or all of these costs during the start-up phase of our manufacturing transition, and our plan is to normalize these as we move into full production. If we fail to transition our manufacturing to lower cost sources in a cost-effective manner, then our business and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we fail to capture, on a profitable basis, a growing portion of the anticipated expanding LED-based lighting market, and then to manage such growth in our business, then our business and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. The adoption of, or changes in, government or industry policies, standards or regulations relating to the efficiency, performance or other aspects of LED lighting or changes in government or industry policies, standards or regulations that encourage or discourage the use of certain other lighting technologies, could impact the demand for our LED products. The adoption of, or changes in, government or industry policies, standards or regulations relating to the efficiency, performance or other aspects of LED lighting may impact the demand for our products. For example, certain government policies may favor certain LED lighting technologies, or other lighting technologies, which may or may not be consistent with our core technologies and strengths. Demand for our LED lighting products may also be impacted by changes in government or industry policies, standards or regulations that encourage or discourage the use of other lighting technologies. For example, the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 bans the sale of various incandescent lights in the United States over a phase-in period that commenced on January 1, 2012. Some of these constraints and bans may be eliminated or delayed by legislative or regulatory action, which could have a negative impact on demand for our LED lighting. With the addition of solar energy systems as a product line in our distributed generation area, we face a variety of risks and uncertainties related to solar technologies and the industry generally, as well as to our solar business specifically, that could adversely affect our operating results if they materialize. In June 2012, we acquired our distributed solar energy business, PowerSecure Solar, which is integrated into our Distributed Generation product platform. Accordingly, we have limited experience in the solar power business on which to base our prospects and anticipated results of operations. In this new solar energy business, we face a number of risks including the following: • While the demand for solar installations is emerging and rapidly evolving, its future success is uncertain. If solar power technology proves unsuitable for widespread commercial deployment or if demand fails to develop sufficiently, we may not be able to generate enough revenues to achieve and sustain it as a profitable product line. The factors influencing the widespread adoption of solar power technology include cost-effectiveness, performance, and reliability; the availability of government subsidies and incentives; the desire of utilities and commercial, industrial, and institutional customers to invest in alternative “green” energy technology; fluctuations in economic and market conditions which impact the viability of conventional and non-solar alternative energy sources; and the willingness and ability of customers to make significant capital expenditures to purchase the products. 35 Table of Contents • The reduction, elimination or expiration of government tax and economic incentives could adversely affect our ability to achieve sales and market share in the solar business, because we believe that the near-term growth of the solar market depends in large part on the availability and size of government tax and economic incentives. To encourage the adoption of solar technologies, the U.S. government and numerous state governments have provided subsidies in the form of cost reductions, tax write-offs and other incentives to end users, distributors, systems integrators and manufacturers of solar power products. Reduction, elimination and/or periodic interruption of these government subsidies and economic incentives because of policy changes, fiscal tightening or other reasons may result in the diminished competitiveness of solar energy, and materially and adversely affect the growth of these markets and our revenues. Additionally, many state governments have adopted, or endorse, or encourage utilities to achieve certain renewable portfolio standards and goals which have driven the adoption of solar and other alternative energy technologies. The reduction, elimination, or expiration of these standards could negatively impact demand for solar technology generally and our solar energy product line specifically. • The execution of our growth strategy is dependent upon the continued availability of third-party financing arrangements for our customers. Depending on the status of financial markets, companies may be unwilling or unable to finance the cost of construction of solar projects. We often act as the general contractor for our customers in connection with the installations of our solar power systems and are subject to risks associated with construction, bonding, cost overruns, delays and other contingencies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. • Many of our customers require long-term performance guarantees by us that guarantee certain levels of energy output from the systems we install. Due to general risks inherent in the performance of solar systems, including unexpected performance problems, uncertain technology or other events that could cause us to fail to meet these performance criteria, we could face significant revenue and earnings losses and financial penalties. • Existing regulations and policies and changes to these regulations and policies may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of solar power technology, which may significantly reduce demand for our solar energy systems. These regulations and policies are being modified and may continue to be modified. Our costs could be adversely affected and customer purchases of solar power technology could be deterred by these regulations and policies, which could result in a significant reduction in the potential demand for our solar energy systems or adversely affect our ability to conduct those operations profitably in the future. Our success in developing and growing a profitable distributed solar energy business depends in large part on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our solar operations and our distributed generation product and service area, and consequently, our operating results. If we were to lose the services of one or more of our executive officers, we might not be able to execute our business strategy successfully and our business and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. Our future success depends in large part upon the continued service of our executive officers. In particular, we are dependent upon Sidney Hinton, our President and Chief Executive Officer, who is the visionary and leader of our business and who is critical to the overall management of our company as well as to the development of our business, our future growth and performance and our strategic direction. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers, especially Mr. Hinton, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ESCO business could be adversely affected if Lime Energy Co., which sold us this business in 2013, is unable to continue as a going concern. In 2012, Lime Energy Co. announced that its financial statements since 2008 could no longer be relied upon, and subsequently announced that the misreporting would require restatement of its financial statements for the affected periods. In connection with Lime’s annual report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2012, filed on July 31, 2013, Lime’s auditor indicated that there was substantial doubt about Lime’s ability to continue as a going concern. 36 Table of Contents In the event that Lime becomes the subject of a bankruptcy filing or any other insolvency action, we may face a number of risks related to our acquisition of the assets relating to the ESCO business from Lime. For example, a court may find that the subcontracting agreement or any of the assumed contracts under which we serve as subcontractor to Lime, which we refer to as the ESCO contracts, are executory contracts, in which case there is a risk that Lime may have the right to reject the ESCO contracts. Alternatively, under other insolvency laws, a court may find that the sale of the ESCO business should be set aside on fraudulent conveyance principles. If any such event occurs, we may be required to seek recovery from Lime as to our purchase price for the ESCO contracts as an unsecured creditor in the bankruptcy. Further, there is a risk that a trustee in a bankruptcy filing may seek to renegotiate the ESCO business purchase price with us. While we will vigorously defend against these matters if they occur, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be successful in such defense, and our failure to successfully defend against such a proceeding could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain key personnel, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We believe our future success and performance depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified leaders for our business units and technical, managerial, sales, marketing, finance and operations personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain these key employees in the future, especially in improved economic conditions. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although we have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers and the leaders of some of our business units, we generally do not have employment contracts with our other key employees. In addition, we do not have key person life insurance for most of our key personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our current key personnel or that we will be able to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect in the future to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. If we are unable to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Price increases in some of the key components in our products and systems could materially and adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. The prices of some of the key components of our products and systems are subject to fluctuation due to market forces beyond our control. If we incur price increases from our suppliers for key components in our products and systems or from our contractors, we may not be able to pass all of those price increases on to our customers in the form of higher sales prices, which would adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. For example, a significant portion of our revenues in recent years have been generated from fixed price distributed generation projects, and increases in the prices of key components in those projects, such as engines, generators, emissions systems, fuel systems, diesel fuel, copper, aluminum and labor, would increase our operating costs and, accordingly, reduce our margins in those projects. Similarly, we use key components in our Energy Efficiency and Utility Infrastructure products and services that are subject to price fluctuations. Although we intend to adjust the pricing on future projects based upon long-term changes in the prices of our components, we generally cannot pass on short-term price increases on fixed priced projects, and we may not be able to pass on all long-term price increases. Such price increases could occur from time to time due to spot shortages of commodities or labor, longer-term shortages due to market forces beyond our control or exchange rate fluctuations. An increase in our operating costs due to price increases from these components causing a reduction in our margins could materially and adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and cash flows. We depend on sole source and limited source suppliers for some of the key components and materials in our products and systems, which dependence makes us susceptible to supply shortages or price increases that could materially and adversely affect our business. We depend upon sole source and limited source suppliers for some of the key components and materials that we use in our products and systems. If we experience delays in receiving these components or parts, we will not be able to deliver our products and systems to our customers on a timely basis, which could defer revenues and income recognition, cause the cancellation or reduction of some projects and contracts or cause us to incur financial 37 Table of Contents penalties. Also, we cannot guarantee that any of the parts or components that we purchase, if available at all, will be of adequate quality or that the prices we pay for these parts or components will not increase. For example, we are dependent upon obtaining a timely and cost-effective supply of generators and engines for our generator systems for our distributed generation solutions, but from time to time these generators and engines may be in short supply, affecting the timing of our performance and cost of the generators. Also, we are dependent upon obtaining certain component parts for our LED lighting products, and the failure to obtain these on a timely and cost-effective business could affect our gross margins and our customer satisfaction. From time to time we may experience delays in production because the supply of one or more critical components is interrupted or reduced, or because of malfunctions or failures of key components, or we may experience significant increases in the cost of such components. If any of those events occurs and we have failed to identify an alternative vendor, then we may be unable to meet our contractual obligations and customer expectations, which could damage our reputation and result in lost customers and sales, or we may incur higher than expected expenses, either of which could materially and adversely affect our business, operations and results of operations. Our business is subject to the risk of changes in utility tariff structures, which changes could materially and adversely affect our business as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is dependent, in part, upon our ability to utilize our distributed generation systems to create favorable electricity costs for customers based on utility pricing structures and incentives. If utility tariffs change in some regions, then our business would become less viable in those regions. Moreover, even if such tariffs do not change, if we are unable to obtain the expected benefits from those tariffs, our revenues and income would be materially and adversely affected. Changes in utility tariffs or our inability to obtain the benefits of tariff structures could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, many utility tariffs include penalties, which can be severe, in the event that our distributed generation systems do not operate properly when required. Incurring these penalties, particularly in cases where we have multiple distributed generation installations serving one utility system, could materially and adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to the risk of changes in environmental requirements or their interpretations, which could materially and adversely affect our business as well as our financial condition and results of operations. We primarily utilize diesel powered generators in our systems. Our newer generator systems are made to utilize a blend of natural gas and diesel, and can also be modified to utilize biodiesel, diesel continues to be the primary fuel utilized across our fleet of systems. If regulatory requirements or their interpretation unfavorably impact the utilization of diesel for generation, or require the diesel to have certain properties that impact the operation of our distributed generation systems or their cost, then our business could be materially and adversely affected. While, in such case, we would utilize our best efforts to find alternative power sources, or modify the units to qualify under the requirements, there is no assurance those alternatives would be economically acceptable. Thus, unfavorable changes to such regulatory environmental requirements could materially and adversely affect our business as well as our financial condition and results of operations. In some of our project-based Distributed Generation system sales, the contracts with our customers have long-term performance requirements that subject us to risks. In some of our project-based Distributed Generation system sales, the contracts with our customers impose long-term performance requirements on us, and these projects subject us to risks due to our obligations under those contracts. For example, in some cases, we are responsible for the full maintenance on the generators, switchgear, solar panels, or inverters during the term of the contract, but the reserves we have set aside may not be sufficient to cover our maintenance obligations, and the maintenance packages that we purchase to cover the maintenance on the generators may not be adequate. In addition, changes in circumstances that were not contemplated at the time of the contract could expose us to unanticipated risks or to protracted or costly dispute resolution. Utility companies or governmental entities could place barriers to our entry into the marketplace that could adversely affect our business. Utility companies or governmental entities could place barriers on the installation of our products or the interconnection of our distributed generation systems with the electric grid. Further, they could charge additional fees to our customers for installing distributed generation. These types of restrictions, fees or charges could impair our ability to sell our distributed generation systems, or the ability of our customers to effectively use our systems, or they could increase the costs of operating our systems. This could make our distributed generation systems less desirable, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 38 Table of Contents Because our business depends, in part, on conditions in the oil and natural gas industry, such as oil and natural gas prices, volatility in oil and natural gas prices, tight credit markets and disruptions in the U.S. and global financial systems may adversely impact our business. Prices for oil and natural gas historically have been extremely volatile and have reacted to changes in the supply of, and demand for, oil and natural gas. These include changes resulting from, among other things, the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to support oil prices, domestic and worldwide economic conditions and political instability in oil-producing countries. We depend in part on our customers’ willingness to make expenditures that are intended to reduce their energy costs. Therefore, weakness in oil and natural gas prices, or the perception by our customers that oil and natural gas prices will decrease in the future, could result in a reduction in purchases of our products and services. Our customers’ willingness to purchase our products and services, and the price of oil and natural gas, depends largely upon prevailing industry conditions that are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control. A reduction in energy prices could cause a decline in the demand for our products and services or adversely affect the prices that we can charge for our products and services. A material decline in oil and natural gas prices or sustained lower prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We could become subject to burdensome government regulation that affects our ability to offer our products and services or that affects demand for our products and services. Our business operations are subject to varying degrees of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. For example, our products, services and technologies are subject to regulations relating to emissions, building codes, public safety, electrical connections, security protocols, and local and state licensing requirements. The regulations to which we are subject may change, additional regulations may be imposed, or existing regulations may be applied in a manner that creates special requirements for the implementation and operation of our products or services that may significantly impact or even eliminate some of our revenues or markets. In addition, we may incur material costs or liabilities in complying with any such regulations. For example, our company-owned recurring revenue projects could be materially and adversely affected by new laws or regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, that would ban the ownership of power generation by a third party, such as us. Furthermore, some of our customers must comply with numerous laws and regulations, which may affect their willingness and ability to purchase our products, services and technologies. In addition, while the electric power markets in which we operate are regulated, most of our business is not directly subject to the regulatory framework applicable to the generation and transmission of electricity. However, we could become directly subject to such regulation to the extent we are deemed to own, operate or control generation used to make wholesale sales of power or provide ancillary services such as exporting power to the electric power grid as a short-term reserve resource. The modification of existing laws and regulations or interpretations thereof or the adoption of future laws and regulations could adversely affect our business, cause us to modify or alter our methods of operations and increase our costs and the price of our products, services and technology. In addition, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able, for financial or other reasons, to comply with all applicable laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could become subject to substantial penalties or restrictions that could materially and adversely affect our business. Because many of our businesses and our product and services offerings have limited histories and their business strategies are evolving, their markets may be limited and concentrated, and limited information is available to evaluate their future prospects. Our business strategy includes the development and expansion of new businesses and product lines from time to time. Examples of recent new product offerings and those in development include, but are not limited to, our solar products, our LED lighting products, our micro-grid products and our PowerBlock generator technologies. Our plans and strategies with respect to these new businesses and product offerings are often based on limited histories and market information and are continually being modified as we seek to maximize their potential. In addition, our new businesses generally have a limited number of customers, and our future success depends in large part upon our ability to expand our customer base and to enhance and develop our products and services in these new businesses so that they will generate significant revenues, profits and cash flow. 39 Table of Contents As a company developing new businesses in the rapidly evolving energy and technology markets, we face numerous risks and uncertainties that are described in this item as well as other parts of this report. Some of these risks relate to our ability to: • anticipate, adapt and influence the changing regulatory climate for energy and technology products, services and technology; • provide new products and services at price points that deliver economic benefits to our customers and to us; • expand our customer base in our new businesses; • anticipate and adapt to the changing energy markets and customer preferences; • attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel and leaders for these new businesses; • respond to actions taken by our competitors; • integrate acquired businesses, technologies, products and services; • generate revenues, gross margins, cash flow and profits from sales of new products and services; and • implement effective sales and marketing strategies to increase the demand for our new businesses, products and services. Our business and financial results in the future will depend heavily on the market acceptance and profitability of our new businesses and these new product and service offerings. If we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks or in executing our business strategies, or if our business model fails or is invalid, then our business could be materially and adversely affected. Changes in our product mix affect our margins, which can materially and adversely affect our operating results. The margins on our revenues from some of our product and service offerings are higher than the margins on other product and service offerings. For example, our Distributed Generation products and services generally yield gross profit margins in the 20-45% range, with our solar Distributed Generation revenues having gross margins that are generally at the lower end of this range, our Utility Infrastructure products and services generally yield gross profit margins in the 5-30% range, and our Energy Efficiency products and services generally yield gross margins in the 15-40% range, with our ESCO revenues having gross margins that are generally at the lower end of this range. The gross profit margin we realize within these ranges largely correlates to the amount of value-added products and services we deliver, with highly engineered, turn-key projects realizing higher gross profit margins due to the benefits they deliver our customers and the value we deliver because we are vertically integrated. Because of these gross profit margin differences, changes in the mix of our product lines can adversely affect our consolidated gross profit margin results. Additionally, our margins fluctuate from project to project, depending on the project’s scope, technical specifications and materials and labor costs, among other factors. Our margins can also fluctuate based upon competition, alternative products and services, operating costs, tariff systems and contractual factors. In addition, we cannot currently accurately estimate the margins of some of our new and developing products and services due to their limited operating history. Our new products and services may have lower margins than our current products and services. If in the future we derive a proportionately greater percentage of our revenues from lower margin products and services, then our overall margins on our total revenues will decrease, and, accordingly, we will record lower profits and receive less cash flow on the same amount of revenues. We are subject to lawsuits, claims and other proceedings from time to time, and in the future we could become subject to new proceedings, and if any of those proceedings become material and are successfully prosecuted against us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. From time to time, we are involved in a variety of claims, lawsuits, investigations, actions and other legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of our business, including actions with respect to labor and employment, non-competition agreements, taxes, breach of contract, accidents, injuries, property damage and other matters. For example, from time to time, we are involved in disputes relating to the scope of our services, or services that we receive from our vendors, and charges or fees relating to those services. These disputes have historically been limited in number and dollar amount and, in the opinion of management, based upon current information, no currently pending or overtly threatened claim is expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, our historical experience is not necessarily indicative of the number or 40 Table of Contents dollar amount of future disputes or claims, and the ultimate outcome of these types of matters cannot be accurately predicted due to the inherent uncertainty of litigation. We have vigorously defended all claims against us in the past, and intend to continue to do so in the future. However, even if we are successful on the merits, any pending or future lawsuits, claims or other legal proceedings could be time-consuming and expensive to defend or settle and could result in the diversion of significant management time and operational resources, which could materially and adversely affect us. In addition, it is possible that an unfavorable resolution of one or more such disputes, claims or proceedings could in the future materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We provide product warranties, which could adversely affect our operating results. We generally provide a standard one year warranty for our distributed generation, switchgear and utility infrastructure equipment and a five to ten year warranty for our LED lighting-based products. In certain cases, we offer extended warranty terms for those product lines. We reserve for the estimated cost of product warranties when revenue is recognized, and we evaluate our warranty reserves periodically by reviewing our warranty repair experience. While we engage in product quality programs and processes, including monitoring and evaluating the quality of our components sourced from our suppliers and instituting methods to remotely detect and correct failures, our warranty obligation is affected by actual product failure rates, parts and equipment costs and service labor costs incurred in correcting a product failure. Our warranty reserves may be inadequate due to undetected product defects, unanticipated component failures, or changes in estimates for material, labor and other costs we may incur to replace projected product failures. As a result, if actual product failure rates, parts and equipment costs or service labor costs exceed our estimates, our operating results could be adversely impacted. In addition, we provide longer warranties for our PowerSecure Solar products and services. Since the solar energy systems we purchase and sell, and their associated components, including solar panels, cannot be tested for the duration of their standard multi-year warranty period, we may be subject to unexpected warranty expense and product liability claims that our vendors do not cover. Additionally, the solar panel manufacturing industry has experienced significant financial upheaval and inconsistent results in recent years, driven largely by decreasing panel prices, and this has weakened the financial health of many of the panel manufacturers which can affect their ability to honor their warranty obligations. The current standard product warranty for the solar energy systems we sell includes a warranty period of generally one to five years for defects in material and workmanship, a warranty period that can extend to ten years for panel and inverter workmanship, and a warranty period which can extend 20 to 25 years on the functionality of solar panels which is generally backed by the panel manufacturer. Due to the long warranty period and even though we pass through manufacturers’ warranties from the manufacturer, we may bear the risk of extensive warranty claims long after we have shipped product and recognized revenue. Any warranty claims that the manufacturer does not cover could cause us to increase the amount of warranty reserves and have a corresponding negative impact on our results. Consolidation in our customer base and utility relationships can create risks that could adversely affect our business. From time to time industry consolidation can occur and impact our customers and potential customers, as well as our utility relationships and potential utility relationships. Industry consolidation has the potential to impact virtually every area of our business. In each of our businesses, industry consolidation has the potential to create both positive and negative effects on our business. The risks created by industry consolidation include, but are not limited to, instances where our customers or utility company relationships are acquired by other customers or utilities who: • have vendors other than us from which they prefer to source our products and services; • seek to reduce the prices they pay for our products and services; • have not adopted our methodologies and technology; • impact organizational structures and personnel such that our relationships are negatively affected; or • in the case of utilities, cause changes in tariff structures that are unfavorable to our business. 41 Table of Contents Many of our products and services experience long and variable sales cycles, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations for any given quarter or year and on our ability to anticipate and plan for our future revenues. Purchases of our products and services are usually significant financial investments for our customers and are used by our customers to address important and complex business needs. Customers generally consider a wide range of issues and alternatives before making a decision to purchase our products and services. Before customers commit to purchase our products, they often require a significant technical review, assessment of competitive products and approval at a number of management levels within their organization. The sales cycle may vary based on the industry in which the potential customer operates. The length and variability of the sales cycle makes it difficult to predict whether particular sales commitments will be received in any given quarter. During the time our customers are evaluating our products and services, we may incur substantial sales and marketing and research and development expenses to customize our products to the customers’ needs. We may also expend significant management efforts, increase manufacturing capacity, hire employees, purchase or lease equipment, order long-lead-time components or purchase significant amounts of inventory prior to receiving an order. Even after this evaluation process, a potential customer may not purchase our products. As a result, these long sales cycles may cause us to incur significant expenses without receiving revenue to offset those expenses. If we are unable to continue to develop new and enhanced products and services that achieve market acceptance in a timely manner, our competitive position and operating results could be harmed. Our future success will depend on our ability to continue to develop new and enhanced products and services that achieve market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner. The markets in which our businesses operate are characterized by frequent introductions of new and enhanced products and services, evolving industry standards and regulatory requirements, government incentives and changes in customer needs. The successful development and market acceptance of our products and services depends on a number of factors, including: • the changing requirements and preferences of the potential customers in our markets; • the accurate prediction of market requirements, including regulatory issues; • the timely completion and introduction of new products and services to avoid obsolescence; • the quality, price and performance of new products and services; • the availability, quality, price and performance of competing products, services and technologies; • our customer service and support capabilities and responsiveness; • the successful development of our relationships with existing and potential customers; and • changes in industry standards. We may experience financial or technical difficulties or limitations that could prevent us from introducing new or enhanced products or services. Furthermore, any of these new or enhanced products and services could contain problems that are discovered after they are introduced. We may need to significantly modify the design of these products and services to correct problems. Rapidly changing industry standards and customer preferences and requirements may impede market acceptance of our products and services. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if we experience difficulties in introducing new or enhanced services and products or if these products and services are not received favorably by our customers. Development and enhancement of our products and services will require significant additional expenses and could strain our management, financial and operational resources. The lack of market acceptance of our products or services or our inability to generate sufficient revenues from this development or enhancements to offset their costs could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we may experience delays or other problems in releasing new products and services and enhancements, and any such delays or problems may cause customers to forego purchases of our products and services and to purchase those of our competitors. We cannot provide assurance that products and services that we have recently developed or that we develop in the future will achieve market acceptance. If our new products and services fail to achieve market acceptance, or if we fail to develop new or enhanced products and services that achieve market acceptance, our growth prospects, operating results and competitive position could be adversely affected. 42 Table of Contents Rapid technological changes may prevent us from remaining current with our technological resources and maintaining competitive product and service offerings. The markets in which our businesses operate are characterized by rapid technological change. Significant technological changes could render our existing and planned new products, services and technology obsolete. Our future success will depend, in large part, upon our ability to: • effectively use and develop leading technologies; • continue to develop our technical expertise; • enhance our current products and services with new, improved and competitive technology; and • respond to technological changes in a cost-effective manner. If we are unable to successfully respond to technological change or if we do not respond to it in a cost-effective manner, then our business will be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in responding to changing technology. In addition, technologies developed by others may render our products, services and technology uncompetitive or obsolete. Even if we do successfully respond to technological advances, the integration of new technology may require substantial time and expense, and we cannot assure you that we will succeed in adapting our products, services and technology in a timely and cost-effective manner. Failures in the integrity of our current financial systems and processes, and future system or process upgrades or changes, could materially affect our business performance and our ability to accurately and timely report our financial results. Our ability to generate accurate and timely financial information for management reporting and public reporting purposes is dependent on the integrity and stability of our current financial systems and processes, and future changes and upgrades to these systems and processes. Disruptions in our systems integrity could lead to operational issues and inefficiencies in our business which could be material. Our growth requires that we upgrade our financial systems and processes from time to time, and we expect financial system upgrades will improve our financial operations when complete, but transitional issues could occur during the upgrade process which could adversely impact our performance as well as the integrity or timing of our financial results. We face intense competition in the markets for our products, services and technology, and if we cannot successfully compete in those markets, our business could be materially and adversely affected. The markets for our products, services and technology are intensely competitive and subject to rapidly changing technology, new competing products and services, frequent performance improvements and evolving industry standards. The markets for energy solutions are fragmented. We compete against both other third party providers of similar products and services, as well as our utility partners and customers sourcing those products and services on an in-house basis. We expect the intensity of competition to increase in the future because the growth potential and deregulatory environment of the energy market have attracted and are anticipated to continue to attract many new competitors, including new businesses as well as established businesses from different industries. As a result of increased competition, we may have to reduce the price of our products and services, and we may experience reduced gross margins and loss of market share, which could significantly reduce our future revenues and operating results. Many of our existing competitors, as well as many potential new competitors, have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, manufacturing and other resources than we do. This may enable our competitors to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or preferences and to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services than we can. Our competitors may be able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and make more attractive offers to potential employees, customers, strategic partners and suppliers and vendors than we can. Our competitors may develop products and services that are equal or superior to the products and services offered by us or that achieve greater market acceptance than our products do. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to improve their ability to address the needs of our existing and prospective customers. As a result, it is possible that new competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share or impede our ability to acquire market share in new markets. We cannot assure you that we will have the financial resources, technical expertise, portfolio of products and services or marketing and support capabilities to compete successfully in the future. Our inability to compete successfully or to timely respond to market demands or changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, conditions and results of operations. 43 Table of Contents If we fail to effectively manage our operations as we grow, our ability to sell our products and services and to provide quality customer service may be adversely affected. In recent years, we have experienced substantial growth in our business and revenues due to both organic growth and acquisitions. As a result, the scope of our operations have expanded into new lines of business and new geographic areas, and the number of our employees has increased significantly to support that growth, and we expect that growth and expansion to continue. This growth could place a significant strain on our management and operational resources, including our ability to timely and cost-effectively satisfy our customers’ requirements and our ability to execute our business plan. Accordingly, we must plan and manage our resources effectively in order to continue to offer quality and successful products and services, to carry out our business plan and to achieve profitability in the midst of such growth. If we are not able to effectively manage our long-term growth in the future, our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our business may be subject to additional obligations to collect and remit sales, use or other taxes, and any successful action by state, foreign or other authorities to collect additional sales, use or other taxes could adversely harm our business. We file sales or use tax returns in certain states as required by law. We do not collect sales or other similar taxes in other states and many of the states do not apply sales or similar taxes to the services that we provide. However, one or more states could seek to impose additional sales or use tax collection and record-keeping obligations on us. Any successful action by state, foreign or other authorities to compel us to collect and remit sales or use taxes, either retroactively, prospectively or both, could adversely affect our results of operations and business. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired. When we acquire a business, we record an asset called “goodwill” equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. In accordance with GAAP, we must identify and value intangible assets that we acquire in business combinations, such as customer arrangements, customer relationships and non-compete agreements, that arise from contractual or other legal rights or that are capable of being separated or divided from the acquired entity and sold, transferred, licensed, rented or exchanged. GAAP provides that goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives not be amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment, while intangible assets that have finite useful lives are amortized over their useful lives. Management is required to make certain estimates and assumptions when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of a reporting unit’s net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually as of October 1. We review our intangible assets with finite lives for impairment when events or changes in business conditions indicate the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. We cannot predict the occurrence of certain future events that might adversely affect the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets that totaled $38.9 million at December 31, 2013. A material decline in our market capitalization or change in discount rates or industry growth rates could result in an impairment of our goodwill. The recognition of a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements resulting from any impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets could adversely impact our results of operations. We could be adversely affected by our failure to comply with the laws applicable to our foreign activities, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions prohibit U.S.-based companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We may pursue opportunities in certain parts of the world that experience government corruption, and in certain circumstances, compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local 44 Table of Contents customs and practices. Our policies mandate compliance with all applicable anti-bribery laws. Further, we require our partners, subcontractors, agents and others who work for us or on our behalf to comply with the FCPA and other anti-bribery laws. Although we have policies and procedures designed to ensure that we, our employees, our agents and others who work with us in foreign countries comply with the FCPA and other anti-bribery laws, there is no assurance that such policies or procedures will protect us against liability under the FCPA or other laws for actions taken by our agents, employees and intermediaries. If we are found to be liable for FCPA violations (either due to our own acts or inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer from severe criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged FCPA violations is expensive and could consume significant time and attention of our senior management. If our information technology systems fail to adequately gather and protect required data or are compromised or fail to operate, or if we experience an interruption in the operation of our information technology systems, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information technology systems. For example, we rely on our information technology systems to effectively control distributed generation equipment on our customers’ sites and gather and assess data used in our operations. The failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and make us unable, or severely limit our ability, to serve our customers. In addition, our information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • earthquakes, fires, floods and other natural disasters; • terrorist attacks and attacks by computer viruses or hackers; • power losses; and • computer systems, Internet, telecommunications or data network failures. Any interruption in the operation of our information technology systems could result in decreased revenues, loss of customer confidence in our products, services, technology or systems and lawsuits and could subject us to penalties. Although no such failures or interruptions have occurred to date, any such occurrence could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions, which could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Although we have not suffered any such breach, access or other loss of information to date, any such occurrence could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disrupt our operations and the services we provide to customers, damage our reputation and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to acquire other businesses, technologies or companies or engage in other strategic transactions, or to successfully realize the benefits of any such strategic transactions. In addition to organic growth, we have grown and expect to continue to grow by acquiring complimentary products, services, technologies and businesses and entering into other strategic transactions that have enabled us to increase our product and service offerings, enhance our technology and capabilities, expand our markets and add experienced management. For example, in 2012 we acquired PowerSecure Solar, and in 2013 we acquired Solais, Encari, PowerLine and our ESCO business. As part of our growth strategy, we expect to continue to evaluate and consider potential strategic transactions, including business combinations, acquisitions and strategic alliances, to enhance our existing businesses and to develop new products, services. At any given time we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to 45 Table of Contents one or more of these types of transactions, and any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. However, we do not know if we will be able to identify any future opportunities that we believe will be beneficial for us. Even if we are able to identify an appropriate business opportunity, we may not be able to successfully consummate the transaction, and even if we do consummate such a transaction we may be unable to obtain the benefits or avoid the difficulties and risks of such transaction. Any future acquisition involves risks commonly encountered in business relationships, including: • the difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, systems, technologies, finance and accounting functions, and products and services of the acquired business; • the technologies, products or businesses that we acquire may not achieve expected levels of revenue, profitability, benefits or productivity; • we may not be able to achieve the expected synergies from an acquisition, or it may take longer than expected to achieve those synergies; • unexpected costs and unknown risks and liabilities associated with the acquisition; • the difficulties and inefficiencies in managing and operating businesses in multiple locations or businesses in which we have limited or no direct experience; • the difficulties in retaining, training, motivating and integrating key personnel; • the diversion of management’s time and resources away from our daily operations; • the difficulties in successfully incorporating licensed or acquired technology and rights into our product and service offerings; • the difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies within the combined organizations; • the difficulties in maintaining and enhancing relationships with customers and suppliers of the acquired business; • the risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience; • the difficulties in integrating accounting and financial reporting systems; • potential disruptions to our ongoing businesses; • the potential need for restructuring operations or reductions in workforce, which may result in substantial charges to our operations; and • difficulties in implementing controls, procedures and policies, including disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, appropriate for a larger public company at companies that, prior to their acquisition, lacked such controls, procedures and policies, which may result in ineffective disclosure controls and procedures or material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting. We cannot assure you that we will make any additional acquisitions or that this or any future acquisitions will be successful, will assist us in the accomplishment of our business strategy, or will generate sufficient revenues to offset the associated costs and other adverse effects or will otherwise result in us receiving the intended benefits of the acquisition. In addition, we cannot assure you that any future acquisition of new businesses or technology will lead to the successful development of new or enhanced products and services, or that any new or enhanced products and services, if developed, will achieve market acceptance or prove to be profitable. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, we could lose important proprietary technology, which could materially and adversely affect our business. Our success and ability to compete depends, in substantial part, upon our ability to develop and protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights to distinguish our products, services and technology from those of our competitors. The unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights and proprietary technology by others could materially harm our business. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, along with non-competition and confidentiality agreements, contractual provisions and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. Although we hold several patents, trademarks, and unregistered copyrights in our business, and we have applied for an additional patent and the registration of a 46 Table of Contents number of new trademarks and service marks and intend to continue to introduce new trademarks and service marks, we believe that the success of our business depends more upon our proprietary technology, information, processes and know-how than on patents or trademark registrations. In addition, much of our proprietary information and technology may not be patentable. Also, we may not be successful in obtaining any future patents or in registering new marks. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, existing laws afford only limited protection, and our actions may be inadequate to protect our rights or to prevent others from claiming violations of their proprietary rights. Unauthorized third parties may attempt to copy, reverse engineer or otherwise obtain, use or exploit aspects of our products and services, develop similar technology independently, or otherwise obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. We cannot assure you that our competitors will not independently develop technology similar or superior to our technology or design around our intellectual property. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights as fully or in the same manner as the laws of the United States. We may need to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, and to determine the validity and scope of other companies’ proprietary rights in the future. However, litigation could result in significant costs and in the diversion of management and financial resources. We cannot assure you that any such litigation will be successful or that we will prevail over counterclaims against us. Our failure to protect any of our important intellectual property rights or any litigation that we resort to in order to enforce those rights could materially and adversely affect our business. If we face claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties, we could encounter expensive litigation, be liable for significant damages or incur restrictions on our ability to sell our products and services. Although we are not aware of any present infringement of our products, services or technology on the intellectual property rights of others, we cannot be certain that our products, services and technologies do not or in the future will not infringe on the valid intellectual property rights held by third parties. In addition, we cannot assure you that third parties will not claim that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. In recent years, there has been a significant amount of litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. In the future, we may be a party to litigation as a result of an alleged infringement of others’ intellectual property. Successful infringement claims against us could result in substantial monetary liability, require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, or otherwise materially disrupt the conduct of our business. In addition, even if we prevail on these claims, this litigation could be time-consuming and expensive to defend or settle, and could result in the diversion of our time and attention and of operational resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling, incorporating or using our products and services that use the infringed intellectual property; • obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all; or • redesign the products and services that use the technology. If we are forced to take any of these actions, our business may be seriously harmed. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported revenue and profits. A significant portion of our revenues is recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. In applying the percentage-of-completion method to our distributed generation turn-key projects, including our traditional distributed generation projects and our solar projects, we have identified the key output project phases that are standard components of these projects. We have further identified, based on past experience, an estimate of the value of each of these output phases based on a combination of costs incurred and the value added to the overall construction project. While the order of these phases varies depending on the project, each of these output phases is necessary to complete each project and each phase is an integral part of the turn-key product solution we deliver to 47 Table of Contents our customers. We use these output phases and percentages to measure our progress toward completion of our projects. For each reporting period, the status of each project, by phase, is determined by employees who are managers of or are otherwise directly involved with the construction project and is reviewed by our accounting personnel. Utilizing this information, we recognize project revenues and associated project costs and gross profit based on the percentage associated with output phases that are complete or in process on each of our projects. In applying the percentage-of-completion method to our utility infrastructure turn-key projects and our ESCO energy efficiency projects, revenues and gross profit are recognized as work is performed based on the relationship between actual costs incurred and total estimated costs at completion. In all cases where we utilize the percentage-of-completion, revenues and gross profit are adjusted prospectively for revisions in estimated total contract costs and contract values. Estimated losses, if any, are recorded when identified. While a project is in process, amounts billed to customers in excess of revenues recognized to date are classified as current liabilities. Likewise, amounts recognized as revenue in excess of actual billings to date are recorded as unbilled accounts receivable. In the event adjustments are made to the contract price, including, for example, adjustments for additional wire or other raw materials, we adjust the purchase price and related costs for these items when they are identified. Because the percentage-of-completion method of accounting relies upon estimates described above, recognized revenues and profits are subject to revision as a project progresses to completion. Revisions in profit estimates are charged to income in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known. In the event we were required to adjust any particular project’s estimated revenues or costs, the effect on the current period earnings may or may not be significant. If, however, conditions arise that require us to adjust our estimated revenues or costs for a series of similar projects, the effect on current period earnings would more likely be significant. In addition, certain contracts provide for cancellation provisions prior to completion of a project. Such cancellation provisions generally require the customer to pay or reimburse us for costs we incurred on the project, but may result in an adjustment to profit already recognized in a prior period. Our operating results can be negatively affected by weather conditions. We perform a substantial amount of our services in the outdoors. As a result, adverse weather conditions, such as rainfall, snow or storms, may affect our productivity in performing, or may delay our performance of, those services. The effect of weather delays in projects that are under fixed price arrangements may be greater if we are unable to adjust the project schedule for such delays. While difficult weather conditions can provide opportunities for us to serve utilities with storm restoration activities, a reduction in our productivity or delays in our performance of our services may adversely affect our business and financial results. We face exposure to significantly higher tax liabilities in the future as a result of our recent utilization of existing net operating loss carryforwards, which could adversely affect our cash flows and net income. In recent years, we have exhausted a significant portion of our available net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, as a result of taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As of December 31, 2013, our available federal NOLs were approximately $20 million expiring over the next 16 years. When our aggregate net income, for federal income tax purposes, exceeds the amount of our available NOLs, we incur a current liability for federal income taxes, which adversely affects our net income, cash flow and available cash resources compared to previous periods. In addition, our ability to utilize these NOLs is subject to significant conditions and restrictions. If we fail to meet these conditions and restrictions, we may be unable to fully utilize some or all of these NOLs. For example, the use of our NOLs is limited under the alternative minimum tax provisions of the U.S. federal income tax code, as a result of which we have recorded and paid U.S. federal income taxes in the past and expect to do so in the future. Other limitations imposed on our ability to use NOLs to offset future taxable income could cause us to pay U.S. federal income taxes earlier than we otherwise would if such limitations were not in effect, adversely affecting our future net income and cash flow. For example, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” for U.S. federal income tax purposes is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its NOLs to offset future taxable income. A corporation generally undergoes an ownership change when the ownership of its stock, by value, changes by more than 50 percentage points over any three year period. Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes as well. 48 Table of Contents We expect our overall effective tax rate in the future will be higher than in recent years and will adversely affect our net income. The income tax expense or benefit we record is the result of applying our annual effective tax rate by our net income or loss. Our effective tax rate and our income tax expense or benefit includes the effects of many factors, including changes in the valuation allowance for our net deferred tax asset associated with our NOLs. As a result of the gain from the sales of our non-core businesses in 2011 and the expectation of taxable income in the future, we eliminated our valuation allowance for our net deferred tax asset associated with our remaining NOLs. Our overall effective tax rate in 2011 was reduced by the favorable effects of the elimination of our valuation allowance. In the future, however, we expect our effective tax rate will approximate statutory rates, which will adversely affect our net income. We may have tax expense exposure that is greater than anticipated in our estimated tax provision. The determination of our provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation and significant judgment, but there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our tax returns and our tax positions are subject to review by applicable taxing authorities, and we are from time to time subject to audits and examinations by the Internal Revenue Service and by state and local tax authorities. Any adverse outcome from these audits or examinations could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. We regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these audits and examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax positions and estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome of any tax audit may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. Changes in statutory tax rates or in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our future effective tax rates may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: • changes in government administrations at the federal and state levels; • changes in tax laws or interpretation of such tax laws, changes in statutory tax rates, and changes in generally accepted accounting principles related to accounting for income taxes; • the jurisdiction in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; • the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various authorities; • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; • increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; • changes in available tax credits; and • the recognition and measurement of uncertain tax positions. Any significant increase in statutory tax rates or our future effective tax rates would adversely impact net income for future periods. In addition, the determination of our income tax expense requires complex estimations, significant judgments and significant knowledge and experience concerning the applicable tax laws. To the extent our actual income tax liability materially exceeds our income tax expense and accruals due to factors, including the above, which were not anticipated at the time we estimated our tax expense, our net income or cash flows would be adversely affected. We are subject to the risks of owning real property. We own real property, including the land and building constituting our principal executive offices as well as one of our production locations, and could acquire additional property in future business acquisitions. The ownership of real property subjects us to risks, including: • the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with fixing any environmental problems and the risk of damages resulting from such contamination; 49 Table of Contents • adverse changes in the value of the property, due to interest rate changes, changes in the neighborhood in which the property is located, or other factors; • ongoing maintenance expenses and costs of improvements; • the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning, seismic, disability act or other requirements; and • possible disputes with neighboring owners or others. Our current and anticipated future international activities subject us to many legal, business, political and economic risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our operating results if they materialize. We acquire certain inventory, primarily for our LED lighting products and our Distributed Generation products, and we expect to market and sell some of our products and services, in international markets. While virtually none of our sales have been into international markets in recent years, one component of our strategy for future growth involves the expansion of our products and services into new international markets and the expansion of our marketing efforts in our current international markets. This expansion will require significant management attention and financial resources to establish additional offices, hire additional personnel, localize and market products and services in foreign markets and develop relationships with international service providers. Moreover, we acquire a significant amount of our parts for our LED lights from Asian nations. We have very limited experience in international operations, including developing localized versions of our products and services and developing relationships with international service providers. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be successful in developing international operations, or that revenues from international operations will be sufficient to offset these additional costs. If revenues from international operations are not adequate to offset the additional expense from expanding these international operations, our business could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, international operations entail a variety of other risks, including: • unexpected changes in legislative, regulatory or market requirements of foreign countries; • poor quality or protracted production or shipping cycles; • currency exchange fluctuations; • longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; • significant taxes or other burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; and • geopolitical risks, such as political, social and economic instability and changes in diplomatic and trade relations. One or more of these factors could adversely affect any international operations and result in lower revenue or higher expenses than we expect and could significantly affect our results of operations and financial condition. New regulations related to conflict-free minerals may force us to incur additional expenses or adversely affect our sourcing of supplies. In August 2012, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC adopted new rules requiring disclosure of the use of certain minerals, referred to as conflict minerals, which originate in the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries. The final rules impose diligence and disclosure obligations with respect to these conflict minerals, which are defined as tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, which are necessary to the functionality of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by an SEC reporting company. These new requirements required us to undertake due diligence efforts beginning in the 2013 calendar year, with initial disclosure requirements beginning in June 2014. Our supply chain is complex and we may incur significant costs to determine the source and custody of any conflict minerals in order to comply with these disclosure requirements, including costs associated with canvassing our supply chain to determine the source country of any conflict minerals incorporated in our products, in addition to the cost of remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. We may also face reputational challenges if we are unable to verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products, technology or equipment, or if we are unable to certify that our products are “conflict-free.” Compliance with these regulatory requirements may also affect the sourcing, price and availability of some minerals necessary to the manufacture of our products. 50 Table of Contents We may be subject to impacts related to legislative, regulatory and economic responses to climate change, with which compliance could be difficult and costly. Legislative and regulatory responses related to climate change and new interpretations of existing laws through climate change litigation create financial risk. Increased public awareness and concern has resulted in more federal, state and local requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of GHGs. Thus, there is a risk that our distributed generation operations, or other businesses could be subject to regulation under climate change laws at the federal, state or local level in the future, and that any such regulation could be difficult and costly to our business and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the potential economic effects of climate change, such as an increase in energy prices, and the potential effect of future legislation aimed at reducing the impact of climate change and lowering emissions could increase the pace of development of alternative energy sources and supplies and the voluntary reduction in energy use, each of which could reduce the need for distributed generation and utility infrastructure services, which would adversely affect our business and operating results. Catastrophic events and other factors outside of our control could disrupt our business. We must protect our business and operations against damage from earthquake, flood, hurricane and similar catastrophic events. A natural disaster or other unanticipated problem could also adversely affect our business by, among other things, harming our information systems or data, or other internal operations, limiting our ability to communicate with our customers, impairing our ability to perform critical functions of our business and limiting our ability to sell our products and services. Any outbreak of a widespread communicable disease pandemic could similarly impact our operations. There may also be secondary impacts that are unforeseeable as well, such as impacts to our customers and disruptions to our supply chain, which could cause delays in new orders, delays in completing projects or even cancellations of orders. Any of these events could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, adversely affect our business, financial condition and our results of operations. Risks Related to the Ownership of our Shares Our charter documents, as well as certain portions of Delaware law, contain anti-takeover provisions that could discourage or prevent a third-party acquisition of our common stock, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Some provisions in our second restated certificate of incorporation and of our amended and restated by-laws, as well as some provisions of Delaware law, could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a third party from attempting to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to stockholders, including transactions in which investors might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions could also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: • a classified Board of Directors in which only approximately one-third of the total board members are elected at each annual meeting; • limitations on the ability of stockholders to change the authorized number of directors or to fill vacancies on the Board of Directors; • the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors; • authority for our Board of Directors to issue shares of our common stock and of our preferred stock, and to determine the price, voting and other rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of undesignated shares of preferred stock, without any vote by or approval of our stockholders; • super-majority voting requirements to effect material amendments to our second restated certificate and restated by-laws; • a limitation on which persons may call a special meeting of stockholders; 51 Table of Contents • a prohibition on stockholders acting by written consent without a meeting; • a fair price provision that sets minimum price requirements for potential acquirers under certain conditions; • anti-greenmail provisions which limit our ability to repurchase shares of common stock from significant stockholders; • restrictions under Delaware law on mergers and other business combinations between us and any 15% stockholders; and • advance notice requirements for director nominations and for stockholder proposals. In addition, we have entered into employment agreements with most of our executive officers which, among other things, include provisions for severance payments and accelerated vesting of benefits, such as accelerated vesting of restricted stock and stock options, upon a change in control or circumstances after a change in control. We have not in the past and we do not currently intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the near future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to fund the development, operation and growth of our business, the servicing and repayment of any indebtedness, the repurchase of our shares and other business purposes. Future cash dividends, if any, will be determined by our Board of Directors, in its discretion, based upon our earnings, financial condition, cash flow, capital resources, capital requirements, charter restrictions, contractual restrictions including those under our credit facility, and such other factors as our Board of Directors deems relevant. The market for our common stock is volatile and subject to extreme trading price and volume fluctuations. Our common stock has been listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange since August 28, 2013. Prior to that date, our common stock was listed and traded on The NASDAQ Global Select Market. The market price and volume of our common stock has in the past been, and in the future is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. For example, since January 1, 2013, the closing sale price of our common stock has fluctuated from a low of $7.83, during the first quarter of 2013, to a high of $24.10, during the first quarter of 2014, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange and The NASDAQ Global Select Market, as applicable. The stock market in general, and the market for small cap companies and energy companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years, and these fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. A number of factors could cause wide fluctuations in the market price and trading volume of our common stock to continue in the future, including: • the effects of economic and market conditions on our business and revenues, especially the effects of the recent challenging financial and economic conditions, including the timing and strength of an economic recovery and its effects on our markets, and the volatility and disruption of the capital and the credit markets on the demand for our products, services and technologies; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations or those of our competitors, or in other companies that investors consider comparisons to ours; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, significant technical innovations, new products or services, product improvements, significant contracts, strategic relationships or capital commitments; • the receipt, deferral or loss of significant customer orders, including replacing, sustaining and growing revenues from new customers; • the introduction of new products and services by us or by our competitors; • the commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation or other legal or regulatory proceedings; • announcements by us or our competitors about the success or status of business; • our ability to develop new relationships and to maintain and enhance existing relationships with customers and strategic partners; 52 Table of Contents • conditions or trends in the energy and technology industries in general, and in the particular markets we serve; • potential favorable or unfavorable regulatory and legislative impacts, including provisions and spending which may or may not be included in federal economic stimulus legislation; • changes in any revenue or earnings guidance or future goals or targets we may from time to time provide, and changes in the amount or timing of our new business announcements and of our revenue backlog; • our financing and capital raising activities; • recommendations by securities analysts and their revenue and earnings estimates, including changes thereto; • changes in, or the failure by us to meet, securities analysts’ estimates and expectations; • the lower coverage by securities analysts and the media of smaller issuers like us; • changes in the market valuation of other energy or technology companies; • additions or departures of key personnel; • purchases or sales of our common stock by our directors, executive officers and significant stockholders; • any litigation or regulatory enforcement actions; • general economic, business and market conditions and fluctuations in equity markets; and • other external factor or other disasters or crisis. Many of these factors are beyond our control. The occurrence of any one or more of these factors could cause the market price of our common stock to increase or decrease significantly, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, broad fluctuations in price and volume may be unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. Any significant fluctuations in the future might result in a material decline in the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation is often expensive to defend or settle and could divert management’s attention and operational resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, even if we ultimately prevail in the litigation. We may issue a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the future, and stockholders may be adversely affected by the issuance of those shares. From time to time in the future we may raise additional capital by issuing shares of our common stock or securities convertible into shares of our common stock, which would increase the number of shares outstanding and may result in dilution in the equity interest of our current stockholders and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have filed two shelf registration statements in 2013 which are effective and allow us to issue up to $70 million in any combination of common stock, preferred stock, warrants and units in offerings for cash, less the amount we raised in our 2013 public offering, and in connection with acquisitions to issue up to 2.5 million shares of common stock, less shares we have issued under that shelf registration statement in acquisitions. Shares issued under either shelf registration statement would be freely tradable upon issuance. In addition, from time to time we may issue shares of our common stock or securities convertible into common stock pursuant to exemptions under the Securities Act registration requirements that we register for resale. The issuance, and the resale or potential resale, of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of our common stock in connection with acquisitions, offerings or otherwise could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and could be dilutive to our stockholders depending on the use of proceeds, the performance of the acquired business and other factors. 53 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 