Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and future operating results may be affected by many risks, uncertainties and other factors, including those set forth below and those contained elsewhere in this report. However, the risks, uncertainties and other factors described in this report are not the only ones we face. There may be additional risks, uncertainties and other factors that we do not currently consider material or that are not presently known to us. If any of the following risks were to occur, our business, affairs, assets, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. When we say that something could have a material adverse effect on us or on our business, we mean that it could have one or more of these effects. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The current crisis in general economic and market conditions and the volatility and disruption in the financial and capital markets has impacted us and could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results in future periods. The United States economy is currently suffering from unfavorable economic conditions, including a recession in the economy and a financial crisis impairing the banking system and the financial markets, that could persist or decline further. These economic conditions have deteriorated due to credit conditions resulting from this financial crisis, resulting in slower economic activity, concerns about inflations and deflation, volatility in energy prices, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns in our markets and other adverse effects on our customers and markets. These poor economic conditions have been adversely affecting our business and our financial condition and results of operations by extending the length of the sales cycle and causing potential customers to delay, defer or decline to make purchases of our products and services due to limitations on their capital expenditures and the adverse effects of the economy and the credit markets on them. While these conditions commenced affecting our business in the second half of 2008, they are projected by many economic experts to continue or deteriorate further throughout much of 2009 or longer. These conditions make it extremely difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of this current financial crisis and economic recession or of a subsequent economic recovery, or the effects thereof on our customers and our markets. Our future results of operations may be negatively impacted in future periods and experience substantial fluctuations from period to period as a consequence of these factors, and such conditions and other factors affecting capital spending may affect the timing of orders from major customers. These factors could adversely affect our ability to meet our capital requirements, support our working capital requirements and growth objectives, maintain our existing or secure new financing arrangements, or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we intend to finance our growth and our recurring revenue projects with cash on hand, cash from operations, borrowings under our credit facility and leasing arrangements, we may require additional financing to support this growth. However, due to the uncertainty and financial crisis in the capital and credit markets, access to capital may not be available to us on terms acceptable to us or at all. As a result, the current economic downturn and financial crisis and the volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets, particularly as they affect utilities and industrial, institutional and commercial users of natural gas and electricity and their capital investment budgets, is negatively affecting our business and could materially and adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations in future periods. In addition, the longer and more pronounced the economy or the markets in which we operate suffer these conditions, the more future periods and the more adverse the effects those conditions are likely to have on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results can fluctuate significantly from period to period, which makes our operating results difficult to predict and can cause our operating results to fall short of expectations from time to time. Our operating results have fluctuated significantly from quarter-to-quarter, period-to-period and year-to-year during our operating history and are likely to fluctuate in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Factors that affect our operating results include the following: • the size, timing and terms of sales and orders, especially large customer orders such as the significant orders from Publix in recent years, and the effects of the timing of project phases of completion, customers delaying, deferring or canceling purchase orders or making smaller purchases than expected; 15 Table of Contents • the effects of economic and market conditions on our business and revenues, especially the effects of the current financial crisis and economic recession, including the length thereof and the timing of subsequent economic recovery and its effects on our markets, and the volatility and disruption of the capital and the credit markets on the demand for our products, services and technologies; • our ability to continue to grow our business and generate increased revenues from customers other than Publix, our largest customer during the past three fiscal years, and our ability to replace revenues previously generated by Publix with new revenue streams; • our ability to increase our revenues through long-term recurring revenue projects, and the capital required to finance equipment for recurring revenue projects in any particular period, as well as our ability to sell, complete and recognize satisfactory levels of quarterly revenue and profits related to our project-based sales, in order to generate revenues, net income and cash flow, to satisfy covenants related to our credit facility and to successfully finance the recurring portion of our business model; • our near-term ability to control our costs and expenses in light of potential future reductions in demand and revenues; • our ability to obtain adequate supplies of key components and materials of suitable quality for our products on a timely and cost-effective basis, including the impact of potential supply line constraints, substandard parts and fluctuations in the cost of raw materials and commodity prices; • the performance of our products, services and technologies, and the ability of our systems to meet the performance standards they are designed and built to deliver to our customers, including but not limited to our recurring revenue projects for which we retain the on-going risks associated with ownership of the systems; • our ability to access significant capital resources on a timely basis in order to fulfill large customer orders and to obtain the financing required for recurring revenue projects; • our ability to implement our business plans and strategies and the timing of such implementation; • the pace of revenue, income and cash flow realization from our new businesses and the development and growth of their markets; • the timing, pricing and market acceptance of our new products and services; • changes in our pricing policies and those of our competitors; • variations in the length of our sales cycle and of the product and service delivery construction process; • changes in the mix of products and services having differing margins; • changes in our operating expenses, including unforeseen or unanticipated expenses; • changes in our valuation allowance for our net deferred tax asset, and the resulting impact on current tax expense, future tax expense and balance sheet account balances; • the effects of severe weather conditions, such as hurricanes, on the demand requirements of our customers and our ability to serve them; • the life cycles of our products and services, and competitive alternatives in the marketplace; • budgeting cycles of utilities and other industrial, commercial and institutional customers, including impacts of the current downturn of the economy and the crisis in the financial markets on capital projects and other spending items; • changes and uncertainties in the lead times required to obtain the necessary permits and other governmental and regulatory approvals for projects; • the development and maintenance of business relationships with strategic partners; • economic conditions in the energy industry, including the effects of changes in energy prices; • changes in the prices charged by our suppliers; • the effects of governmental regulations and regulatory changes in our markets; • the effects of litigation, claims and other proceedings; and • our ability to make and obtain the expected benefits from acquisitions of technology or businesses, and the costs related to such acquisitions. 16 Table of Contents Because we have little or no control over many of these factors, our operating results are difficult to predict. Any substantial adverse change in any of these factors could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Our revenues and other operating results are heavily dependent upon the size and timing of customer orders and payments and upon the timing of the completion of projects. The timing of large individual sales, and of project completion, is difficult for us to predict. Because our operating expenses are based on anticipated revenues and because a high percentage of these are relatively fixed, a shortfall or delay in recognizing revenue could cause our operating results to vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and could result in significant operating losses or declines in profit margins in any particular quarter. If our revenues fall below our expectations in any particular quarter, we may not be able to reduce our expenses rapidly in response to the shortfall, which could result in us suffering significant operating losses or declines in profit margins in that quarter. As we develop new related lines of business, our revenues and costs will fluctuate because it takes time for business to be developed and revenues to be generated, but start up, development and expansion expenses may be significant. Another factor that could cause material fluctuations in our quarterly results is the amount of recurring, as opposed to project-based, sources of revenue for our distributed generation projects. To date, the majority of our PowerSecure subsidiary’s revenues have consisted of project-based revenues, which are recognized as the project is completed. However, recently we have been focusing our marketing efforts on developing more sales under our recurring revenue model for which the cost and capital is incurred at the beginning of the project but the related revenues are recognized over the life of the contract, generally five to fifteen years, and this delays recognition of revenue and net income as we implement an increased number of these recurring revenue projects, particularly in the near-term. In addition, our Southern Flow subsidiary’s operating results will vary as a result of fluctuations in energy prices and the demand for domestic natural gas production and as the result of severe weather conditions, particularly in the Gulf of Mexico. Results from our WaterSecure operations fluctuate significantly with changes in oil and natural gas prices and natural gas production in Colorado. Due to these factors and the other risks discussed in this report, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter, period-to-period or year-to-year comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. Quarterly, period and annual comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful or indicative of future performance. As a result, it is likely that, from time to time, our results of operations could fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. We may not be able to remain profitable or return to or exceed the levels of growth and profitability that we had experienced in prior years. In recent years our operations have been generally profitable and we have experienced high growth rates in revenues. We generated net income from continuing operations in each fiscal year since 2003, other than in fiscal 2007 when we incurred a loss from continuing operations of $1.0 million due primarily to approximately $14.1 million in non-recurring restructuring charges. Our fiscal 2008 revenues were approximately 22% higher than our fiscal 2007 revenues, and we generated a net income of $10.7 million in 2008 compared to a net loss of $1.6 million in fiscal 2007 (which included $14.1 million in restructuring charges and $0.6 million loss from discontinued operations). While our revenues in fiscal 2007 were approximately 4% less than our revenues in fiscal 2006, our fiscal 2006 revenues were approximately 166% higher than our fiscal 2005 revenues, and our net income in fiscal 2006 was 401% greater than our fiscal 2005 net income. We may not be able to return to or exceed our recent levels of revenues and profitability in the future due to the factors listed in this item and due to other factors discussed elsewhere in this report. For example, the current economic crisis is negatively affecting our markets and our customers’ demand for our products, services and systems. Also, due to our active marketing of our products and services under our recurring revenue model that entails significant up-front capital expenditures and costs with the corresponding revenues being generated over an extended number of years, as well as costs related to the expansion of our new businesses, products and services, our revenues may not grow in the short-term at the same rate as over the long-term and could decline, and we could incur expenses and capital expenditures in the short-term that could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, our revenues from our largest customer over the past three years will be significantly lower in future years. As a result, there is no assurance that we will continue to generate revenue and income that exceeds or is comparable to prior periods, or that we will be profitable in any particular future period. If our future growth rates, revenues and 17 Table of Contents margins do not meet our expectations, or if our operating expenses exceed what we anticipate, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may require a substantial amount of additional funds to finance our capital requirements and the growth of our business, but we may not be able to raise a sufficient amount of funds to do so on terms favorable to us and our stockholders or at all. We may need to obtain additional capital to fund our capital obligations and to finance the growth and expansion of our businesses. For example, we will need substantial additional capital to finance the development and growth of our recurring revenue projects, which are heavily capital intensive. In addition, from time to time as part of our business plan, we engage in discussions regarding potential acquisitions of businesses and technologies. While our ability to finance future acquisitions will likely depend on our ability to raise additional capital, as of the date of this report, we have not entered into any agreement committing us to any such acquisition. Moreover, unanticipated events, over which we have no control, could increase our operating costs or decrease our ability to generate revenues from product and service sales, necessitating additional capital. We continually evaluate our cash flow requirements as well as our opportunity to raise additional capital in order to improve our financial position. In addition, we continually evaluate opportunities to improve our credit facilities, through increased credit availability, lower debt costs or other more favorable terms. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to maintain our existing debt facilities, raise additional capital or replace our current credit facility when needed or desired, or that the terms of any such financing will be favorable to us and our stockholders. We entered into an expanded revolving credit facility in November 2008, under which we have a maximum credit line of $50 million. The credit facility matures November 12, 2011, but we have the option prior to that maturity date, assuming we are in compliance with all our financial covenants and not otherwise in default at that time, to convert a portion of outstanding principal balance thereunder, in an amount not exceeding the amount we draw down from the credit facility to finance capital for recurring revenue projects executed after December 31, 2007, into a non-revolving term loan for a two year period expiring November 12, 2013, making quarterly payments based upon a four year fully amortized basis. However, upon maturity in November 2011, we would still need to refinance the remainder of the balance of our credit facility that is not converted, and to obtain funding for our future capital requirements. As of December 31, 2008, we had no borrowings outstanding under our credit facility and were in full compliance with all our covenants, and thus the full amount was available to us. Our ability to borrow under the revolving credit facility is subject to our ability to satisfy a number of financial covenants, including a maximum leverage ratio, minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, minimum asset coverage, minimum consolidated tangible net worth and maximum debt to worth ratio. Our ability to satisfy those covenants depends principally upon our ability to achieve positive operating performance. If we are unable to fully satisfy the financial covenants of the credit facility, and this failure is not waived by our lenders, then we will be in breach of the terms of our credit facility. Our obligations under the credit facility are secured by a first priority security interest in substantially all of the assets of our subsidiaries, and by guarantees by our subsidiaries. Any breach of the covenants in the credit facility could result in a default under the credit facility, and an acceleration of payment of all outstanding debt owed, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. In such case, we would seek an amendment or waiver of our credit agreement or consider other options, such as raising capital through an equity issuance to pay down debt, which could be dilutive to stockholders. There can be no assurance that our lenders would agree to an amendment or waiver of our credit agreement. In the event we obtain an amendment or waiver of our credit agreement, we would likely incur additional fees and higher interest expense. Moreover, we could be adversely affected by the failure of one or more financial institutions to fulfill their commitments under our credit facility, due to the current crisis in the financial markets and banking industry. Our credit facility is provided by a syndicate of several financial institutions, with each institution agreeing severally, and not jointly, to make revolving credit loans to us in accordance with the terms of the credit agreement. If one or more of these financial institutions were to default on its obligation to fund its commitment, the portion of the credit facility provided by such defaulting financial institution would not be available to us. We may seek to raise any needed or desired additional capital from the proceeds of public or private equity or debt offerings at the holding company level or at the subsidiary level or both, through asset or business sales, from traditional credit financings or from other financing sources. Our ability to obtain additional capital when needed or desired will depend on many factors, including market conditions, which are not generally favorable as of the date of this report, our operating performance and investor sentiment, and thus cannot be assured. In addition, depending on how it is structured, raising capital could require the consent of our lenders. Even if we are able to raise additional capital, the terms of any financing could be adverse to the interests of our stockholders. For example, the terms of debt financing could include covenants that restrict our ability to operate our business or to expand our 18 Table of Contents operations, while the terms of an equity financing, involving the issuance of capital stock or of securities convertible into capital stock, could dilute the percentage ownership interests of our stockholders, and the new capital stock or other new securities could have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our current stockholders. We cannot provide any assurance that sufficient additional funds will be available to us when needed or desired or that, if available, such funds can be obtained on terms favorable to us and our stockholders and acceptable to our lending group, if its consent is required. Our inability to obtain sufficient additional capital on a timely basis on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Restrictions imposed on us by the terms of our credit facility limit how we conduct our business and our ability to raise additional capital. The terms of our credit facility contain financial and operating covenants that place restrictions on our activities and limit the discretion of our management. These covenants place significant restrictions on our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • create liens or other encumbrances; • issue or redeem our securities; • make dividend payments, stock repurchases and investments; • incur capital expenditures above certain limits; • amend our charter documents; • sell or otherwise dispose of our or our subsidiaries’ stock or assets; • liquidate or dissolve; • acquire other businesses and companies; • merge or consolidate with other companies; or • reorganize, recapitalize or engage in a similar business transaction. Any future financing arrangements will likely contain similar or more restrictive covenants. As a result of these restrictions, we may be: • limited in how we conduct our business; • unable to raise additional capital, through debt or equity financings, when needed for our operations and growth; and • unable to compete effectively, make desired acquisitions or to take advantage of new business opportunities. In addition, our credit facility contains other customary covenants, including covenants that require us to meet specified financial ratios and financial tests. Our ability to borrow under our credit facility will depend on our satisfaction of those covenants. Events outside of our control can affect our ability to meet those covenants. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to comply with all these covenants in the future, particularly given the challenging economic and financial market conditions and the impact these conditions are having, and are expected to continue to have, on our customers’, and on our potential customers’, capital spending and business investment activities. Our failure to comply with our obligations under our credit facility could result in declaration of an event of default. If a default in our credit facility is declared and is not waived by our lenders or timely cured by us, then we may be unable to borrow under it or any other credit mechanism and the entire indebtedness then owed under the credit facility could be accelerated, and we may not be able to repay it. In addition, indebtedness under other instruments that contain cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions also could be accelerated and become due and payable. We cannot be certain that we will be able to remedy an such defaults. In addition, if our credit facility matures and is not renewed, we may not be able to obtain successor financing on acceptable terms. The need to comply with the terms of our debt obligations may also limit our ability to obtain additional financing and our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business. If as a result of these covenants, we are unable to 19 Table of Contents pursue a favorable transaction or course of action or to respond to an unfavorable event, condition or circumstance, then our business could be materially and adversely affected. Our growth and operating results in recent years were largely the result of significant purchase commitments from one customer, and if we do not receive additional significant purchase commitments in the future from this or other customers, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. In recent years, we have derived a very significant portion of our revenues from one customer that made large purchase commitments, which generated significant revenues and enhanced our operating results. In late 2005, we began receiving the largest purchase orders in our history from Publix, our largest customer over the past three years. In 2008, project-based sales to Publix accounted for 33% of our consolidated revenues, as compared to 47% in 2007 and 53% in 2006. From time to time, we have received other significant, non-recurring purchase orders from customers. See “Item 1. Business—Customers” above. While we expect sales to Publix to continue to generate a significant amount of revenues during the next few years, such sales have been declining in the past two years and will be at much lower levels in future years than in the past three years. There is no assurance we will receive any new orders in the future from Publix or that Publix will not defer or cancel some or all of the orders in our backlog. In addition, there is no assurance that we will receive other significant purchase commitments in the future from other customers. In addition, if all or any substantial portion of commitments for large orders were to be cancelled, reduced or delayed, or if we are unable to obtain additional significant purchase orders in the future, our revenues and net income would be adversely affected. Our success will depend on our continued ability to develop new relationships and manage existing relationships with our utility partners and with significant customers and to generate project-based and recurring revenues from them. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to continue to generate revenues in the future from our largest current customer, that we will be able to attract additional large customers in the future to replace revenue declines expected from our largest current customer, or that our existing customers will continue to purchase our products and services in future years in the same amounts as in prior years. Our business and operating results would be adversely affected by: • the loss of one or more large customers; • any cancellation of orders by, or any reduction or delay in sales to, these customers; • the failure of large purchase commitments to be renewed or to recur; • delays in timing of future projects with existing and new customers; • our inability to successfully develop relationships with additional customers; or • future price concessions that we may have to make to these customers. We do not have long-term commitments for significant revenues with most of our customers and may be unable to retain existing customers, attract new customers or replace departing customers with new customers that can provide comparable revenues. Because we generally do not obtain firm, long-term volume purchase commitments from our customers, most of our contracts and commitments from our customers are short-term and project-based at the present time, although we are focusing on enhancing our long-term commitments through recurring revenue projects. So long as the majority of our revenues continue to be recognized on a project by project basis, we remain dependent upon securing new contracts in the future in order to sustain and grow our revenues. Accordingly, there is no assurance that our revenues and business will grow. In addition, customer orders can be canceled or rescheduled and volume levels can be reduced. We cannot provide any assurance that our customers will continue to use our products and services or that we will be able to replace, in a timely or effective manner, canceled, delayed or reduced orders with new business that generates comparable revenues. Further, we cannot assure you that our current customers will continue to generate consistent amounts of revenues over time. Our failure to maintain and expand our customer relationships could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents The quality and performance of our distributed generation systems and related products and services is, in part, dependent on the quality of component parts we source from various manufacturers, which makes us susceptible to performance issues that could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. Our distributed generation systems, switchgear, lighting products and utility infrastructure systems are sophisticated and complex, and the success of these systems and products is dependent, in part, upon the quality and performance of key components and materials, such as engines, generators, breakers, fuel systems, LED and other lighting technologies, and other complex electrical components. While we strive to utilize high quality component parts from reputable suppliers, and to backup their quality and performance with manufacturers’ warranties, even the best parts and components have performance issues from time to time, and these performance issues create significant financial and operating risks to our business, operations and financial results. These risks include the expense, time, focus and resources involved in repairing, replacing or modifying distributed generation systems, switchgear systems and lighting systems for component part malfunctions, whether or not covered under manufacturers’ warranties, and the burden and costs we would incur due to manufacturers disputing or failing to timely and fully honor their warranty obligations for quality and performance issues. These risks also include the potential material and adverse effects on our business, operations, reputation and financial results due to the cancellation or deferral of projects by our customers, or claims made by our customers for damages, as a result of performance issues. In addition, the mere existence of performance issues, even if finally resolved with our suppliers, can have an adverse effect on our reputation for quality, which could adversely affect our business. Although we believe our suppliers’ warranties generally cover these performance issues, from time to time we face disputes with our suppliers with respect to those performance issues and their warranty obligations, or the performance issues are not covered by manufacturer’s warranties, and our customers may claim to incur damages as a result of those performance issues. As of the date of this report, we have identified performance issues with approximately $5 to $10 million of manufacturer’s component parts installed in distributed generation systems deployed at customer’s sites, and additional performance issues could arise from time to time in the future. We are working collaboratively with the manufacturers to resolve these issues. While we typically work collaboratively with the manufacturers to resolve these issues, in the event the manufacturers’ solutions do not fully satisfy the required performance standards, we could incur additional costs to replace, rebuild or repair these systems, and these costs could substantially lower our gross margin, cause us to incur additional expenses in certain future periods, or cause us to spend additional capital expenditures or incur asset write-downs. In addition, we could incur materially adverse financial consequences related to the cancellation of customer contracts, including project-based contracts and recurring revenue contracts. In certain instances, these performance issues could also result in customers’ claims for damages. While we currently expect the manufacturers to rectify these performance issues to meet our customers’ required performance standards with minimal additional cost to us, we cannot provide any assurance that an acceptable solution will be achieved in each case, or even if a solution is achieved, the timing or costs to us associated with such solutions. Moreover, the outcome of warranty claims is inherently difficult to predict due to the uncertainty of technical solutions, cost, customer requirements, and the uncertainty inherent in litigation and disputes generally, and thus there is no assurance we will not be adversely affected by these, or other performance issues with key parts and components. If any of these risks related to the quality of the components occur, our business and our financial results could be harmed. Because our future success depends, in part, upon the success of our recurring revenue project business model, which requires us to make up-front investments in capital for distributed generation equipment that we will continue to own, and therefore to incur risks associated with ownership, if we do not receive substantially all of the benefits anticipated by those projects or if one or more of the risks associated with those projects materializes, then our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. A growing portion of our revenues, cash flow and net income is generated by our recurring revenue projects, which are long-term distributed generation projects installed on the customer’s site in which we retain the ownership and realize recurring revenues derived from regular fees paid by the customer over a long-term contract, typically five to fifteen years, including projects under which our revenues are dependent on the energy cost reductions realized by our customers. While to date these recurring revenue projects have constituted a minor portion of our revenue base, we expect and intend for them to generate a more significant and dependable portion of our revenues in the future because we have increased our marketing of these recurring revenue projects. Our future success depends, in part, upon the success and growth of these recurring revenue projects, which require us to invest capital in distributed generation equipment at the beginning of the project. Accordingly, if we do not realize most of the 21 Table of Contents benefits of these recurring revenue projects, or if one or more material risks related to these projects materializes, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Under these recurring revenue projects, we derive recurring revenues from the customer, which enhance the size and dependability of our revenues, cash flow, gross margins and income over the long-term. However, the amount of anticipated recurring revenues and related gross margins and cash flows from these long-term projects are based on a number of assumptions and estimates, including those pertaining to customer demand, energy consumption, energy costs and savings, tariff structures, our monitoring ability, the quality, reliability and availability of the associated equipment, our capital resources, and the initial and ongoing expenses of the project. Changes in our estimates or assumptions causing us to fail to realize the benefits of these recurring revenue projects may result in the recurring revenues, gross margins on those revenues and cash flows we receive being substantially less than expected. Moreover, these recurring revenue projects have certain risks associated with them, in addition to the risks associated with our traditional turn-key distributed generation sales, due to our continued ownership of the underlying equipment and the nature of the relationship we have with the customers under these projects. These risks of recurring revenue projects include the following: • disputes arising with a customer about the project that ultimately results in either the customer requiring us, or in us determining, to remove the equipment from the customer’s site, which could result in a significant loss in revenues and cash flow until the equipment can be re-deployed in a new project or, if the equipment is not re-usable, a significant write-down in our assets; • our inability to receive the intended benefits from the project due to changes associated with the distributed generation model, such as due to changes in tariff structures or customer requirements; • our inability to receive recurring revenues due to customer issues, such as deterioration in the customer’s ability to pay our ongoing fees or a dispute with the customer delaying, deferring or reducing the project fees payable to us; • the failure of the equipment to properly function and to perform and to deliver the intended benefits, which could result in claims by the customer for damages to its equipment, lost revenues and profits or safety issues and in the attempt by the customer to cancel the contract related to the project or to refuse or to delay making payments in amounts we believe are due to us under those contracts; • new regulations, or changes in the interpretation of existing regulations, such as those pertaining to air emissions or those relating to the requirements and conditions for the ownership of power generation systems, that could render our projects no longer economically viable, or technically obsolete, or legally impractical; • injuries to persons caused by problems or failures of equipment owned by us; and • environmental effects, such as fuel spills, requiring costly and time-consuming remediation efforts and potentially subjecting us to fines and penalties related to environmental requirements and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot provide any assurance that we will realize substantially all the benefits that we expect, or that our business will not face some of the risks, including the risks discussed above, related to these recurring revenue projects, on which we anticipate we will become more dependant in future periods. If we do not receive substantially all of the expected benefits, or if we face one or more significant risks, related to these recurring revenue projects, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we were to lose the services of one or more of our executive officers, we might not be able to execute our business strategy and our business could be materially and adversely affected. Our future success depends in large part upon the continued service of our executive officers. In particular, Sidney Hinton, our President and Chief Executive Officer, who is also the visionary and leader of our PowerSecure subsidiary, is critical to the overall management of our company as well as the development of our business, our future growth and performance and our strategic direction. Although we have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers, we only have key man life insurance on Mr. Hinton, and it might not be sufficient to offset the adverse effects of the loss of his services to us. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents If we are unable to continue to attract and retain key personnel, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We believe our future success and performance will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, managerial, sales, marketing, finance and operations personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain these key employees in the future. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although we have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers, we generally do not have employment contracts with our other key employees. In addition, we do not have key person life insurance for most of our key personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our current key personnel or that we will be able to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect in the future to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. If we are unable to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Price increases in some of the key components in our products could materially and adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. The prices of some of the key components of our products and services are subject to fluctuation due to market forces beyond our control. If we incur price increases from our suppliers for key components in our products and systems or from our contractors, we may not be able to pass all of those price increases on to our customers in the form of higher sales prices, which would adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. For example, most of our revenues in recent years have been generated from fixed price distributed generation projects, and increases in the prices of key components in those projects, such as generators, diesel fuel, copper, aluminum and labor, would increase our operating costs and, accordingly, reduce our margins in those projects. Although we intend to adjust the pricing on future projects based upon long-term changes in the prices of these components, we generally cannot pass on short-term price increases on fixed pricing projects, and we may not be able to pass on all long-term price increases. Such price increases could occur from time to time due to spot shortages of commodities or labor, or from longer-term shortages due to market forces beyond our control. An increase in our operating costs due to price increases from these components causing a reduction in our margins could materially and adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and cash flows. We depend on sole source and limited source suppliers for some of the key components and materials in our products and systems, which makes us susceptible to supply shortages or price increases that could materially and adversely affect our business. We depend upon sole source and limited source suppliers for some of the key components and materials that we use in our products and systems. If we experience delays in receiving these components or parts so that we are unable to obtain these components on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver our products and systems to our customers on a timely basis, which could defer revenue and income recognition or cause the cancellation or reduction of some projects and contracts. Also, we cannot guarantee that any of the parts or components that we purchase, if available at all, will be of adequate quality or that the prices we pay for these parts or components will not increase. For example, we are dependent upon obtaining a timely and cost-effective supply of generators for our distributed generation business, but from time to time these generators are in short supply, affecting the timing of our performance and cost of the generators. From time to time we may experience delays in production because the supply of any critical components is interrupted or reduced, or due to malfunctions or failures of key components, or we may experience significant increases in the cost of such components. If any of those events occurs and we have failed to identify an alternative vendor, then we may be unable to meet our contractual obligations and customer expectations, which could damage our reputation and result in lost customers and sales, or we may incur higher than expected expenses, either of which could materially and adversely affect our business, operations and results of operations. Our business is subject to the risk of changes in utility tariff structures, which changes could materially and adversely affect our business as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is dependent, in part, upon our ability to utilize distributed generation to create favorable pricing for customers based on existing tariff structures. If utility tariffs change in some regions, then our business would become less viable in those regions. Moreover, even if such tariffs do not change, if we are unable to obtain the expected benefits from those tariffs, our revenues and income would be materially and adversely affected. Changes 23 Table of Contents in utility tariffs or our inability to obtain the benefits of tariff structures could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to the risk of changes in environmental requirements, which changes could materially and adversely affect our business as well as our financial condition and results of operations. We presently utilize diesel powered generators in our systems. If regulatory requirements in the business regions of our customers are modified to unfavorably affect the utilization of diesel for generation, then our business could be materially and adversely affected. While, in such case, we would utilize our best efforts to find alternative power sources, there is no assurance those alternative sources would be economically acceptable. Unfavorable changes to such regulatory requirements could materially and adversely affect our business. Some of our long-term turn-key contracts subject us to risks. Some of our contracts for turn-key distributed generation projects have a term of many years, during which time some risks to our business may arise due to our obligations under those contracts. For example, we are responsible for full maintenance on the generators and switchgear during the term of the contract, but the reserves we have set aside may not be sufficient to cover our maintenance obligations, and the maintenance package we have purchased designed to cover maintenance on the generators may not be adequate. In addition, changes in circumstances that were not contemplated at the time of the contract could expose us to unanticipated risks or to protracted or costly dispute resolution. Utility companies or governmental entities could place barriers to our entry into the marketplace. Utility companies or governmental entities could place barriers on the installation of our products or the interconnection of our products with the electric grid. Further, they could charge additional fees to our customers for installing distributed generation. These types of restrictions, fees or charges could impair our ability our distributed generation systems, or of our customers to effectively use our systems, or they could increase the costs to our customers of using our systems. This could make our main product line less desirable, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We could become subject to burdensome government regulation that affects our ability to offer our products and services or that affects demand for our products and services. Our business operations are subject to varying degrees of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. Regulatory agencies may impose special requirements for the implementation and operation of our products, services or technology that may significantly impact or even eliminate some of our target markets. We may incur material costs or liabilities in complying with government regulations. In addition, potentially significant laws, regulations and requirements may be adopted or imposed in the future. For example, our recurring revenue projects could be materially and adversely affected by new laws or regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, that would ban the ownership of power generation by a third party, such as us. Furthermore, some of our customers must comply with numerous laws and regulations. In addition, at this time we cannot assess the impact that the new stimulus package adopted by Congress in February 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, will have on our business and operations or on our competitors. Such legislation will directly impact alternative generation technologies, renewable energy requirements, environmental restrictions and costs and the electric grid. Some of the measures, requirements, benefits and funding in this legislation could benefit or could restrict our business, or could benefit our competitors, or both. The modification or adoption of future laws and regulations could adversely affect our business and our ability to continually modify or alter our methods of operations at reasonable costs. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be able, for financial or other reasons, to comply with all applicable laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could become subject to substantial penalties which could materially and adversely affect our business. We face some risks that are inherent in energy operations. Our operations are subject to the hazards and risks inherent in the servicing and operation of natural gas and production water disposal assets, including encountering unexpected pressures, explosions, fires, natural disasters, blowouts, cratering and pipeline ruptures, as well as in the manufacture, sale and operation of electrical equipment such as our distributed generation system, including electrical shocks, which hazards and risks could result in 24 Table of Contents personal injuries, loss of life, environmental damage and other damage to our properties and the properties of others. These operations involve numerous financial, business, regulatory, environmental, operating and legal risks. For example, the WaterSecure operations suffered fires in 2008 that resulted in personal injuries, damages to property and loss of revenues, net income and cash flow due to business interruption, and will increase future operating expenses due to safety measures being implemented. These risks could materialize and result in losses to us as the result of personal injuries, damage to property and business interruption, some of which could occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or could exceed our insurance coverage. Therefore, the occurrence of a significant adverse effect that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material and adverse effect on our business. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at reasonable rates. Because some of our business and product offerings have limited histories and their business strategies are still being developed and are unproven, limited information is available to evaluate their future prospects. Our business strategy includes the development and expansion of new businesses and product lines from time to time, including our new engineering services, management consulting and energy and lighting efficiency businesses. Our plans and strategies with respect to these new businesses are often based on unproven models and must be developed and modified. Our future success depends in large part upon our ability to develop these new businesses so that they will generate significant revenues, profits and cash flow. As a company developing new businesses in the rapidly evolving energy and technology markets, we face numerous risks and uncertainties which are described in this Item as well as other parts of this report. Some of these risks relate to our ability to: • anticipate and adapt to the changing regulatory climate for energy and technology products, services and technology; • attract customers to our new businesses; • anticipate and adapt to the changing energy markets and end-user preferences; • attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; • respond to actions taken by our competitors; • integrate acquired businesses, technologies, products and services; • generate revenues, gross margins, cash flow and profits from sales of new products and services; and • implement an effective marketing strategy to promote awareness of our new businesses, products and services. Our business and financial results in the future will depend heavily on the market acceptance and profitability of our new businesses and these new product and service offerings lines. If we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks or in executing our business strategies, or if our business model fails or is invalid, then our business could be materially and adversely affected. Changes in our product mix could materially and adversely affect our business. The margins on our revenues from some of our product and service offerings are higher than the margins on some of our other product and service offerings. For example, the margins we obtain on recurring revenue contracts are generally higher than the margins we obtain on project-based contracts. In addition, our margins can also fluctuate based upon tariff systems and contract factors. In addition, we cannot currently accurately estimate the margins of some of our new and developing products and services due to their limited operating history. Our new products and services may have lower margins than our current products and services. If in the future we derive a proportionately greater percentage of our revenues from lower margin products and services, then our overall margins on our total revenues will decrease and, accordingly, will result in lower net income, or higher net losses, and less cash flow on the same amount of revenues. Severe, adverse weather conditions, such as hurricanes, can cause a severe disruption in the business of Southern Flow by significantly reducing the short and mid-term demand requirements of its customers. Southern Flow’s business is in large part dependent upon the business of large oil and gas producers. Severe, adverse weather conditions, such as hurricanes, can cause serious disruptions in the production activities of those customers, which in turn reduces their demand for Southern Flow’s services. While such production reductions tend 25 Table of Contents to be temporary and after time those production levels tend to return to normal levels, such disruptions can cause Southern Flow to lose business that is generally not replaceable. This loss of business results in a loss of revenues for Southern Flow, and because Southern Flow’s expenses tend to be fixed, at least in the short-term, these losses of revenues could have a significant effect on Southern Flow’s net income and cash flows, and thus a material adverse impact on our revenues, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to lawsuits, claims and proceedings from time to time, and in the future we could become subject to new proceedings, and if any of those proceedings are material and are successfully prosecuted against us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. From time to time, we are involved in a variety of claims, suits, investigations, proceedings and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of our business, including actions with respect to labor and employment, taxes, breach of contract and other matters. For example, from time to time, we hire employees that are subject to restrictive covenants, such as non-competition agreements with their former employers. We comply, and require our employees to comply, with the terms of all known restrictive covenants. However, we have in the past and may in the future receive claims and demands by some former employers alleging actual or potential violations of these restrictive covenants. We intend to vigorously defend all claims against us. Although the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be accurately predicted due to the inherent uncertainty of litigation, in the opinion of management, based upon current information, no currently pending or overtly threatened claim is expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, even if we are successful on the merits, any pending or future lawsuits, claims or proceedings could be time-consuming and expensive to defend or settle and could result in the diversion of significant management time and operational resources, which could materially and adversely affect us. In addition, it is possible that an unfavorable resolution of one or more such proceedings could in the future materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We extend product warranties which could adversely affect our operating results. We provide a standard one year warranty for distributed generation equipment and a five year warranty for our EfficientLights lighting products. In addition, we offer extended warranty terms on our distributed generation turn-key projects. We reserve for the estimated cost of product warranties when revenue is recognized, and we evaluate our reserve periodically by comparing our warranty repair experience by product. While we engage in product quality programs and processes, including monitoring and evaluating the quality of our components suppliers and development of methods to remotely detect and correct failures, our warranty obligation is affected by actual product failure rates, parts and equipment costs and service labor costs incurred in correcting a product failure. Our warranty reserves may be inadequate due to undetected product defects, unanticipated component failures, as well as changes in various estimates for material, labor and other costs we may incur to replace projected product failures. As a result, if actual product failure rates, parts and equipment costs, or service labor costs exceed our estimates, our operating results could be adversely impacted. If we fail to successful educate our potential customers, including utility customers, regarding the benefits of our distributed generation solutions or if the market otherwise fails to continue to develop and expand the need for our solutions, or if new technologies become viable alternatives, then our business could be limited and adversely affected. Our future success depends in large part upon the continued and growing commercial acceptance of our distributed generation energy solutions and our ability to obtain additional orders. The market for our solutions is relatively new and undeveloped. If we are unable to educate our potential customers and utility partners about the benefits of our solutions over competing products and services, our ability to sell and grow the sales of our solutions will be limited. In addition, because the distributed generation sector is rapidly evolving, we cannot accurately assess the size of the market, and we may not be able to accurately assess the trends that may emerge and affect our business. For example, we may have difficulty predicting customer needs and developing solutions that address those needs. If the market for our energy solutions does not continue to grow, our ability to grow our business could be limited, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Because we are dependent upon the utility industry for a growing portion of our revenues, reductions or deferrals of purchases of our products and services by utilities or their customers could materially and adversely affect our business. One of our marketing approaches involves partnering with utilities and selling our products and services to their large commercial, institutional, federal and industrial customers. We have generated a significant portion of our revenues using this approach. However, the purchasing patterns of these customers are variable and generally characterized by long budgeting, purchasing and regulatory process cycles. These customers typically issue requests for quotes and proposals, establish committees to evaluate the purchase proposals, review different technical options with vendors, analyze performance and cost/benefit justifications and perform a regulatory review, in addition to applying a normal budget approval process within the utility. In addition, utilities and their customers may defer purchases of our products and services if the utilities reduce capital expenditures as the result of the currently adverse economic and financial market conditions, mergers and acquisitions, pending or unfavorable regulatory decisions, poor revenues due to weather conditions, rising interest rates or general economic downturns, among other factors. These unfavorable conditions could materially and adversely affect our business. Many of our products and services experience long and variable sales cycles, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations for any given quarter or year. Our products and services are often used by our customers to address critical business needs. Customers generally consider a wide range of issues before making a decision to purchase our products and services. In addition, the purchase of some of our products and services involves a significant commitment of capital and other resources by the customer. This commitment often requires significant technical review, assessment of competitive products and approval at a number of management levels within the customer’s organization. Our sales cycle may vary based on the industry in which the potential customer operates and is difficult to predict for any particular transaction. The length and variability of our sales cycle makes it difficult to predict whether particular sales will be concluded in any given quarter. While our customers are evaluating our products and services before they place an order with us, we may incur substantial sales and marketing and research and development expenses to customize our products to the customer’s needs. We may also expend significant management efforts, increase manufacturing capacity and order long-lead-time components or materials prior to receiving an order. Even after this evaluation process, a potential customer may not purchase our products. As a result, these long sales cycles may cause us to incur significant expenses without ever receiving revenue to offset those expenses. If we are unable to develop new and enhanced products and services that achieve market acceptance in a timely manner, our operating results and competitive position could be harmed. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new and enhanced products and services that achieve market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner. The development of technology is often complex, and we occasionally have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products and services and enhancements thereof. Successful development and market acceptance of our products and services depends on a number of factors, including: • the changing requirements of customers; • the accurate prediction of market requirements, including regulatory issues; • the timely completion and introduction of new products and services; • the quality, price and performance of new products and services; • the availability, quality, price and performance of competing products, services and technologies; • our customer service and support capabilities and responsiveness; • the successful development of our relationships with existing and potential customers; and • changes in technology, industry standards or end-user preferences. We cannot provide assurance that products and services that we have recently developed or may develop in the future will achieve market acceptance. If our new products and services fail to achieve market acceptance, or if we fail to develop new or enhanced products and services that achieve market acceptance, our growth prospects, operating results and competitive position could be adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents Rapid technological changes may prevent us from remaining current with our technological resources and maintaining competitive product and service offerings. The markets in which our businesses operate are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent introductions of new and enhanced products and services, evolving industry standards and regulatory requirements and changes in customer needs. Significant technological changes could render our existing and planned new products, services and technology obsolete. Our future success will depend, in large part, upon our ability to: • effectively use and develop leading technologies; • continue to develop our technical expertise; • enhance our current products and services; • develop new products and services that meet changing customer needs; and • respond to emerging industry and regulatory standards and technological changes in a cost-effective manner. If we are unable to successfully respond to these developments or if we do not respond to them in a cost-effective manner, then our business will be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in responding to changing technology or market needs. In addition, products, services and technologies developed by others may render our products, services and technology uncompetitive or obsolete. Even if we do successfully respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards, the integration of new technology may require substantial time and expense, and we cannot assure you that we will succeed in adapting our products, services and technology in a timely and cost-effective manner. We may experience financial or technical difficulties or limitations that could prevent us from introducing new or enhanced products or services. Furthermore, any of these new or enhanced products, services and technology could contain problems that are discovered after they are introduced. We may need to significantly modify the design of these products and services to correct problems. Rapidly changing technology and operating systems may impede market acceptance of our products, services and technology. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if we experience difficulties in introducing new or enhanced services and products or if these products and services are not received favorably by our customers. Development and enhancement of our products and services will require significant additional expenses and could strain our management, financial and operational resources. The lack of market acceptance of our products or services or our inability to generate sufficient revenues from this development or enhancements to offset their costs could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the past, we have experienced delays in releasing new products and services and enhancements, and we may experience similar delays in the future. These delays or problems in the installation of implementation of our new products and services and enhancements may cause customers to forego purchases of our products and services to purchase those of our competitors. Failures in the integrity of our current systems and future system upgrades could materially affect our business performance and our ability to accurately and timely report our financial results. Our ability to generate accurate and timely financial information for management reporting and public reporting purposes is dependent on the integrity and stability of our current financial systems and upgrades to our systems. This includes our financial and operational systems and underlying processes. Disruptions in our systems integrity could lead to operational issues and inefficiencies in our business which could be material. Our significant growth requires that we upgrade our financial systems from time to time, and we are currently evaluating a financial and operational system upgrade in the next few years. We expect that this financial system upgrade will improve our financial operations once it is complete, but transitional issues could occur during installation which could adversely impact our performance as well as the integrity or timing of our financial results. We face intense competition in the markets for our products, services and technology, and if we cannot successfully compete in those markets, our business could be materially and adversely affected. The markets for our products, services and technology are intensely competitive and subject to rapidly changing technology, new competing products and services, frequent performance improvements and evolving industry standards. The market for energy solutions is fragmented. We compete against traditional supply-side resources as well as against solutions offered by utilities and competitive electricity suppliers. We expect the 28 Table of Contents intensity of competition to increase in the future because the growth potential and deregulatory environment of the energy market have attracted and are anticipated to continue to attract many new competitors, including new businesses as well as established businesses from different industries. As a result of increased competition, we may have to reduce the price of our products and services, and we may experience reduced gross margins and loss of market share, which could significantly reduce our future revenues and operating results. Many of our existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, manufacturing and other resources than we do. This may enable our competitors to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or preferences and to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services than we can. Our competitors may be able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and make more attractive offers to potential employees, customers, strategic partners and suppliers and vendors than we can. Our competitors may develop products and services that are equal or superior to the products and services offered by us or that achieve greater market acceptance than our products do. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to improve their ability to address the needs of our existing and prospective customers. As a result, it is possible that new competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share or impede our ability to acquire market share in new markets. We cannot assure you that we will have the financial resources, technical expertise, portfolio of products and services or marketing and support capabilities to compete successfully in the future. Our inability to compete successfully or to timely respond to market demands or changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, conditions and results of operations. If we fail to effectively manage our anticipated long-term future growth, our ability to market and sell our products and services and to provide quality service to our customers may be adversely affected. Our revenues, business operations and number of employees have grown significantly in recent years, primarily in response to the growth in our business. Notwithstanding the near-term effects of the current economic crisis and financial markets meltdown, we anticipate further growth in the long-term, especially as we expand into new lines of business and geographic areas. When this growth occurs, it can place a significant strain on our management and operational resources, including our ability to timely and cost-effectively satisfy our customers’ demand requirements. We must plan and manage our long-term growth effectively in order to continue to offer quality and successful products and services and to achieve revenue growth and profitability in rapidly evolving markets. If we are not able to effectively manage our long-term growth in the future, our business may be materially and adversely affected. If our new hires perform poorly, if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing and integrating these new employees, or if we are not successful in training our existing employees, our business may be harmed. Our management of the WaterSecure operations, a private energy program, presents risks to us. WaterSecure is our subsidiary that manages and holds a significant minority ownership interest in the WaterSecure operations, a private program that owns and operates natural gas production water disposal facilities. While WaterSecure does not intend to form any new private programs, it may from time to time increase its economic interest in the program or initiate or manage actions intended to expand the program’s assets or activities. This program was financed by a private placement of equity interests raising capital to acquire the assets and business operated by the program. Our management of this program presents risks to us, including: • material adverse changes in the business, results of operations and financial condition of the program due to events, conditions and factors outside of our control, such as changes in the price of oil and other general and local conditions affecting the oil and gas market generally, which could reduce the revenues, net income and cash flows of the program and, because we receive distributions from the program based upon its financial results and available cash, adversely affect our financial results and cash flow; • potential new market entrants and competition resulting from the current oil and gas market generally and the specific oil and gas market served by our WaterSecure operations, which could adversely affect the financial results of our WaterSecure operations and, accordingly, our results of operations; • hazards of oil production water processing and disposal facilities, including fires, such as the fires that occurred at the program’s facilities in early 2008, that can result in loss of life, personal injuries, damages to facilities that may not be insured and lost business, revenues, net income and cash flows; 29 Table of Contents • the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with fixing any environmental problems and the risk of damages due to such contamination; • lawsuits by investors in this program who become dissatisfied with the results of the program; • risks inherent in managing a program and taking significant actions that affect its investors; • changes in the regulatory environment relating to the program; • reliance upon significant suppliers and customers by the program; and • changes in technology. If any of these risks materialize and we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may be unable to acquire other businesses, technologies or companies or engage in other strategic transactions, or to successfully realize the benefits or avoid the difficulties of any such strategic transactions. In the past, in addition to organic growth, we have grown by acquiring complimentary businesses, technologies, services and products and entering into other strategic transactions that have enabled us to increase our products and service offerings, expand our markets and add experienced management. As part of our business strategy, we expect to continue to evaluate and consider potential strategic transactions, including business combinations, acquisitions and dispositions and strategic alliances, on an ongoing basis as they present themselves to facilitate our ability to enhance our existing and to develop new businesses, products, services and technology, and to enhance our financial condition, results of operations and stockholder value. At any given time we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of these types of transactions, and any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. However, we do not know if we will be able to identify any future opportunities that we believe will be beneficial for us. Even if we are able to identify an appropriate business opportunity, we may not be able to successfully consummate the transaction, and even if we do consummate such a transaction we may be unable to obtain the benefits or avoid the difficulties and risks of such transaction. Any future acquisition involves risks commonly encountered in business relationships, including: • difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, systems, technologies, products and services of the acquired business; • the technologies, products or businesses that we acquire may not achieve expected levels of revenue, profitability, benefits or productivity; • difficulties in retaining, training, motivating and integrating key personnel; • diversion of management’s time and resources away from our normal daily operations; • difficulties in successfully incorporating licensed or acquired technology and rights into our product and service offerings; • difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies within the combined organizations; • difficulties in retaining relationships with customers, employees and suppliers of the acquired company; • risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience; • potential disruptions of our ongoing businesses; and • unexpected costs and unknown risks and liabilities associated with the acquisitions. For these reasons, future acquisitions could materially and adversely affect our existing businesses. Moreover, we cannot predict the accounting treatment of any acquisition, in part because we cannot be certain whether current accounting regulations, conventions or interpretations will prevail in the future. In addition, to finance any future acquisitions, it may be necessary for us to incur additional indebtedness or raise additional funds through public or private financings. These financings may not be available to us at all, or if 30 Table of Contents available may not be available on terms satisfactory to us or to those whose consents are required for such financings. Available equity or debt financings may materially and adversely affect our business and operations and, in the case of equity financings, may significantly dilute the percentage ownership interests of our stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will make any additional acquisitions or that any acquisitions, if made, will be successful, will assist us in the accomplishment of our business strategy, or will generate sufficient revenues to offset the associated costs and other adverse effects or will otherwise result in us receiving the intended benefits of the acquisition. In addition, we cannot assure you that any acquisition of new businesses or technology will lead to the successful development of new or enhanced products and services, or that any new or enhanced products and services, if developed, will achieve market acceptance or prove to be profitable. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, we could lose important proprietary technology, which could materially and adversely affect our business. Our success and ability to compete depends, in substantial part, upon our ability to develop and protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights to distinguish our products, services and technology from those of our competitors. The unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights and proprietary technology by others could materially harm our business. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, along with confidentiality agreements, contractual provisions and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. Although we hold copyrights and trademarks in our business, and we have applied for a patent and the registration of a number of new trademarks and service marks and intend to introduce new trademarks and service marks, we believe that the success of our business depends more upon our proprietary technology, information, processes and know-how than on patents or trademark registrations. In addition, much of our proprietary information and technology may not be patentable. We may not be successful in obtaining any patents or in registering new marks. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, existing laws afford only limited protection, and our actions may be inadequate to protect our rights or to prevent others from claiming violations of their proprietary rights. Unauthorized third parties may attempt to copy, reverse engineer or otherwise obtain, use or exploit aspects of our products and services, develop similar technology independently, or otherwise obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. We cannot assure you that our competitors will not independently develop technology similar or superior to our technology or design around our intellectual property. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights as fully or in the same manner as the laws of the United States. We may need to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, and to determine the validity and scope of other companies’ proprietary rights in the future. However, litigation could result in significant costs or in the diversion of management and financial resources. We cannot assure you that any such litigation will be successful or that we will prevail over counterclaims against us. Our failure to protect any of our important intellectual property rights or any litigation that we resort to in order to enforce those rights could materially and adversely affect our business. If we face claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties, we could encounter expensive litigation, be liable for significant damages or incur restrictions on our ability to sell our products and services. Although we are not aware of any present infringement of our products, services or technology on the intellectual property rights of others, we cannot be certain that our products, services and technologies do not or in the future will not infringe on the valid intellectual property rights held by third parties. In addition, we cannot assure you that third parties will not claim that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. In recent years, there has been a significant amount of litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. In the future, we may be a party to litigation as a result of an alleged infringement of others’ intellectual property. Successful infringement claims against us could result in substantial monetary liability, require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, or otherwise materially disrupt the conduct of our business. In addition, even if we prevail on these claims, this litigation could be time-consuming and expensive to defend or settle, and could result in the diversion of our time and attention and of operational resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: 31 Table of Contents • stop selling, incorporating or using our products and services that use the infringed intellectual property; • obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all; or • redesign the products and services that use the technology. If we are forced to take any of these actions, our business may be seriously harmed. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Our business could suffer if we cannot maintain and expand our current strategic alliances and develop new alliances. One element of our business strategy is the development of corporate relationships such as strategic alliances with utilities and other companies and businesses to provide products and services to existing and new markets and to develop new products and services and enhancements to existing products and services. We believe that our success in the future in penetrating new markets will depend in large part on our ability to maintain these relationships and to cultivate additional or alternative relationships. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to develop new corporate relationships, or that these relationships will be successful in achieving their purposes. Our failure to continue our existing corporate relationships and develop new relationships could materially and adversely affect our business. When we become unable to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes, either because we exhaust them or because we lose the ability to use them for any reason, we would face exposure to significant tax liabilities in the future, adversely affecting our net income and cash flow. We have recorded taxable income since 2005. We have been able to offset our taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes by utilizing our net operating loss carryforwards, which we refer to as NOLs, and intend to do so in the future. As of December 31, 2008, our available NOLs were approximately $30.4 million, of which $5.8 million expires over the next three years. When our aggregate future net income, for federal income tax purposes, exceeds the amount of our available NOLs, we will commence incurring liability for federal income taxes, which will adversely affect our net income, cash flow and available cash resources compared to previous periods during which we were able to utilize our NOLs. In addition, our ability to utilize these NOLs is subject to significant conditions and restrictions. If we fail to meet these conditions and restrictions, we may be unable to fully utilize some or all of these NOLs. For example, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” for U.S. federal income tax purposes is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its NOLs to offset future taxable income. A corporation generally undergoes an “ownership change” when the ownership of its stock, by value, changes by more than 50 percentage points over any three year period. Limitations imposed on our ability to use NOLs to offset future taxable income could cause us to pay U.S. federal income taxes earlier than we otherwise would if such limitations were not in effect, adversely affecting our future net income and cash flow. Similar rules and limitations may apply for sate income tax purposes as well. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. The determination of our provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation and significant judgment, but there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our determination of our tax liability is always subject to review by applicable taxing authorities. Any adverse outcome of such a review could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. We are subject to the risks of owning real property. We own real property, the land and building constituting our principal executive offices. We have little experience managing real property. Ownership of real property subjects us to risks, including: 32 Table of Contents • the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with fixing any environmental problems and the risk of damages resulting from such contamination; • averse changes in the value of this property, due to interest rate changes, change in the neighborhood in which the property is located, or other factors; • the possible need for structural improvements in order to complying with zoning, seismic, disability act or other requirements; and • possible disputes with neighboring owners or others. Risks Related to the Ownership of our Shares Our charter documents, as well as Delaware law, contain anti-takeover provisions that could discourage or prevent a third-party acquisition of our common stock, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Some provisions in our second restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws, as well as some provisions of Delaware law, could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a third party from attempting to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to stockholders, including transactions in which investors might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions could also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors in which only approximately one-third of the total board members are elected at each annual meeting; • limitations on the ability of stockholders to change the authorized number of directors or to fill vacancies on the board of directors; • prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors; • provisions permitting a director to be re-elected in an uncontested election even if less than a majority of the shares voted in that election vote in favor of that director; • authority for our board of directors to issue shares of our common stock and our preferred stock, and to determine the price, voting and other rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of undesignated shares of preferred stock, without any vote by or approval of our stockholders; • super-majority voting requirements to effect material amendments to our second restated certificate and by-laws; • a limitation on which persons may call a special meeting of stockholders; • a prohibition on stockholders acting by written consent without a meeting; • a fair price provision that sets minimum price requirements for potential acquirers under certain conditions; • anti-greenmail provisions which limit our ability to repurchase shares of common stock from significant stockholders; • restrictions under Delaware law on mergers and other business combinations between us and any 15% stockholders; and • advance notice requirements for director nominations and for stockholder proposals. In addition, we have entered into employment agreements with most of our executive officers which, among other things, include provide for severance payments and accelerated vesting of benefits, such as accelerated vesting of restricted stock and stock options, upon a change in control or circumstances after a change in control. 33 Table of Contents Our stockholder rights agreement makes effecting a change of control more difficult, which may discourage offers for shares of our common stock. Our board of directors has adopted an amended and restated rights agreement. Our rights agreement may have the effect of delaying, deterring, or preventing changes in our management or control of us, which may discourage potential acquirers who otherwise might wish to acquire us without the consent of the board of directors. Under the rights plan, if a person or group acquires 15% or more of our common stock, all holders of rights (other than the acquiring stockholder) may, upon payment of the purchase price then in effect, purchase common stock having a value of twice the purchase price. In the event that we are involved in a merger or other similar transaction where we are not the surviving corporation, all holders of rights (other than the acquiring stockholder) shall be entitled, upon payment of the then in effect purchase price, to purchase common stock of the surviving corporation having a value of twice the purchase price. The rights will expire on November 30, 2011, unless we extend the terms of the rights agreement or we earlier redeem or exchange the rights. We have not in the past and we do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend on retaining any future earnings to fund our operations and growth and do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future on the common stock. Future dividends, if any, will be determined by our board of directors, based upon our earnings, financial condition, capital resources, capital requirements, charter restrictions, contractual restrictions and such other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. The market for our common stock is volatile and subject to extreme trading price and volume fluctuations. The market price and volume of our common stock has in the past been, and in the future is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. For example, since January 1, 2008, the closing sale price of our common stock has fluctuated from a low of $2.70 to a high of $13.87. The stock market in general, and the market for energy companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years, and these fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. A number of factors could cause wide fluctuations in the market price and trading volume of our common stock to continue in the future, including: • the effects of economic and market conditions on our business and revenues, especially the effects of the current financial crisis and economic recession, including the length thereof and the timing of subsequent economic recovery and its effects on our markets, and the volatility and disruption of the capital and the credit markets on the demand for our products, services and technologies; • actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, significant technical innovations, new products or services, product improvements, significant contracts, strategic relationships or capital commitments; • the receipt, deferral or loss of significant customer orders, including replacing, sustaining and growing revenues from customers other than Publix, our largest customer; • the introduction of new products and services by us or our competitors; • the commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation or other legal or regulatory proceedings; • announcements by us or our competitors about the success or status of business; • conditions or trends in the energy and technology industries in general, and in the particular markets we serve; • potential favorable or unfavorable regulatory and legislative impacts, including provisions and spending which may or may not be included in federal economic stimulus legislation; • changes by us in revenue or earnings guidance; • recommendations by securities analysts; • changes in, or the failure by us to meet, securities analysts’ estimates and expectations; • the lower coverage by securities analysts and the media of smaller issuers like us; 34 Table of Contents • changes in the market valuation of other energy or technology companies; • additions or departures of key personnel; • purchases or sales of our common stock by our directors, executive officers and significant stockholders; and • general economic, business and market conditions. Many of these factors are beyond our control. The occurrence of any one or more of these factors could cause the market price of our common stock to increase or decrease significantly, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, broad fluctuations in price and volume may be unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. Any significant fluctuations in the future might result in a material decline in the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation is often expensive to defend or settle and could divert management’s attention and operational resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, even if we ultimately prevail in the litigation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 