Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Our Business—Our Failure To Maintain Required Licenses Could Impact Our Operations.” Medicare and Medicaid Revenues. In the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, approximately 29% and 30% of our net revenues were reimbursed by the Medicare and state Medicaid programs, respectively. No other third-party payor represented more than 9% of our total net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. The majority of our revenues are derived from rental income on equipment rented and related services provided to patients, sales of equipment, supplies and pharmaceuticals and other items we sell to patients for patient care under fee-for-service arrangements. Revenues derived from capitation arrangements represented 7% of total net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011. Medicare Reimbursement. There are a number of legislative and regulatory initiatives in Congress and at CMS that affect or may affect Medicare reimbursement policies for products and services we provide. Specifically, a number of important legislative changes that affect our business were included in the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (“MMA”); the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (“DRA”); MIPPA, which became law in 2008, the comprehensive healthcare reform law signed in March 2010 (“the Reform Package”) and the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012. These Acts and their implementing regulations and guidelines contain numerous provisions that are significant to us and continue to have an impact on our operations today. Budget Control Act of 2011. On August 2, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011 was signed into law. The Budget Control Act of 2011 authorized increases in the United States’ debt limit of at least $2.1 trillion, established caps on funding appropriations estimated to reduce federal spending by $917 billion over the next ten years, and created the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction (“Joint Committee”), a bipartisan Congressional committee instructed to develop legislation to reduce the federal deficit by at least another $1.5 trillion over the ten-year period of fiscal years 2012 – 2021. The Joint Committee was not limited in what it could propose to reduce the federal deficit. If the proposal had been issued by November 23, 2011, it would have been subject to special, expedited procedures in Congress. Because Congress and the President failed to enact legislation reducing the deficit by at least $1.2 trillion over the ten-year period of fiscal years 2012 – 2021 by the January 15, 2012 deadline, automatic spending reductions in fiscal years 2013 – 2021 through sequestration, 12 Table of Contents the required cancellation of budgetary resources, would have been triggered. Under sequestration, certain federal programs are protected, including Medicaid. However, sequestration would cause payments to Medicare providers and suppliers to be reduced by an amount not to exceed 2%. Such a reduction would be applicable to both competitively bid and non-competitively bid markets and products. Under the Budget Control Act of 2011, the reduction in payments to Medicare providers and suppliers was to begin on January 2, 2013. However, on January 1, 2013, Congress passed the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which the President signed into law on January 2, 2013. Among other provisions, this law delayed implementation of the sequestration reduction in payments to Medicare providers and suppliers until March 1, 2013. The 2% Medicare reductions will take effect on April 1, 2013 and it is unclear how long these reductions will be in effect. Any further reductions in provider and supplier reimbursement rates under federal healthcare programs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. DMEPOS Competitive Bidding. The MMA required implementation of a competitive bidding program for certain DMEPOS items. By statute, CMS was originally required to implement the DMEPOS competitive bidding program over time, with Round 1 of competition occurring in portions of 10 of the largest Metropolitan Statistical Areas (“MSAs”) in 2007, launch of the program in 2008 and in 70 additional markets in 2009, and then in additional markets after 2009. Although CMS administered a bid process in 2007 and launched the original Round 1 program in mid-2008, shortly thereafter, MIPPA was enacted. This delayed the DMEPOS competitive bidding program by requiring that Round 1 competition commence in 2009 and required a number of program reforms prior to CMS re-launching the program. Changes mandated by MIPPA include requirements for the government to administer the program more transparently, exemption of certain DMEPOS products from the program and a new implementation schedule. Under MIPPA, the initial CBAs and product categories subject to rebidding in the Round 1 Rebid are very similar to those of Round 1. However, MIPPA excluded Negative Pressure Wound Therapy Pumps and Related Supplies and Accessories as a competitive bidding product category in Round 1 and permanently excluded Group 3 Complex Rehabilitative Power Wheelchairs and Related Accessories as a competitive bidding product category. We received contract offers for a substantial majority of the Round 1 Rebid bids we submitted. The rates took effect on January 1, 2011 for the Round 1 Rebid markets and remain in place through the end of the three-year contract period, December 31, 2013. CMS reports that the average price reduction for all products in all Round 1 Rebid CBAs was 32%. After the price reduction and volume growth/reduction experienced in the Round 1 Rebid markets is accounted for, an estimated $16.6 million of net revenue was subject to bidding in the calendar year ending December 31, 2012. We estimate that once the additional products which are included in the Round 1 Recompete program phase (which takes effect in January 2014) are accounted for, the estimated annual total net revenues associated with items subject to competitive bidding in the Round 1 markets is approximately $20.1 million for same 2012 calendar year, or 0.8% of our annual total net revenues. In April 2012, CMS announced the product categories to be included in the “recompete” of the Round 1 Rebid contracts and an associated schedule. The Round 1 Rebid Recompete includes additional products and CMS has elected to group products in an all-new way, such as a “Respiratory Equipment” category which includes oxygen therapy, sleep therapy and nebulizers, and a “General Home Equipment” category which includes a variety of home medical equipment, accessories and supplies. CMS concluded the bid submission process in the fourth quarter of 2012. New rates for the Round 1 Rebid Recompete are scheduled to be announced in Spring 2013 and take effect on January 1, 2014. Notwithstanding the changes MIPPA requires, competitive bidding imposes a significant risk to DMEPOS suppliers under the rules governing the program. If a DMEPOS supplier operating in a CBA is not awarded a contract for that CBA, the supplier generally will not be able to bill and be reimbursed by Medicare for DMEPOS items supplied in that CBA for the time period covered by the competitive bidding program unless the supplier meets certain exceptions or acquires a winning bidder. Because the applicable statutes mandate financial savings from the competitive bidding program, a winning contract supplier will receive lower Medicare payment rates under competitive bidding than the otherwise applicable DMEPOS fee schedule rates. As competitive bidding is phased in across the country under the revised MIPPA and Reform Package implementation schedule, we will experience a reduction in reimbursement, as will most if not all other DMEPOS suppliers in the impacted areas. In addition, there is an increasing risk that the competitive bidding prices will become a benchmark for reimbursement from other payors, as evidenced by the Administration’s 2013 fiscal budget proposal which would limit state Medicaid reimbursement levels for certain durable medical equipment services and products to Medicare reimbursement rates for the same products and services in the same state. Neither MIPPA nor the Reform Package prevents CMS from adjusting prices for DMEPOS items in non-bid areas; however, before using its authority to adjust prices in non-bid areas, MIPPA requires that CMS issue a regulation that specifies the methodology to be used and consider how prices through competitive bidding compare to costs for those items and services in the non-bid areas. 13 Table of Contents The Reform Package also includes changes to the Medicare DMEPOS competitive bidding program. Significantly, Round 2 of the competitive bidding program was expanded from 70 to 91 of the largest MSAs. Round 2 includes the majority of the same product categories as Round 1, but CMS expanded the program by (i) combining standard power wheelchairs and manual wheelchairs into a single new product category, (ii) including Negative Pressure Wound Therapy as a category in all Round 2 markets and (iii) including the Support Surfaces (Group 2 mattresses and overlays) category in all Round 2 markets rather than a subset. The bid process for Round 2 ended on March 30, 2012, and CMS announced the Single Payment Amounts (“SPAs”) on January 30, 2013, at which time the agency began the contract offer process. CMS expects the contracting process to continue through March 2013. The new Round 2 rates and guidelines are currently scheduled to take effect on July 1, 2013. We estimate that approximately $122 million of our net revenues for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2012 is subject to competitive bidding in this round. CMS reported that the average payment reduction for Round 2 will be 45%. After applying the actual SPAs for each impacted CBA to Apria’s actual 2012 revenue for the product categories included in the bidding program, the Company estimates that the Round 2 revenue reduction is $57 million before any changes in volume are accounted for as a result of the contract offers received and accepted. The Reform Package also gives the Secretary of Health and Human Services additional authority to apply competitive bid pricing to non-bid areas via a rulemaking process and that could occur by 2016. In addition, efforts to repeal the competitive bidding program altogether or mandate significant program changes continue. In March 2011, the Fairness in Medicare Bidding Act of 2011 (“FIMBA”) was introduced into the U.S. House of Representatives and referred to the House Subcommittee on Health. FIMBA would have repealed the program without specifying a reduction in the industry’s current reimbursement levels. Other efforts are underway by independent economists who seek to alter certain critical aspects of the program. Specifically, those efforts are designed to change the way in which CMS conducts the auction process itself, establishes the single payment rates, determines supplier capacity needed and related aspects which, if adopted by CMS in their entirety or in part, would change how the program would be administered. In September 2012, a bill titled “Medicare DMEPOS Market Pricing Program Act of 2012” was introduced in Congress and referred to the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Committee on Ways and Means. The bill would repeal the current DMEPOS competitive bidding program as designed and replace it with a modified auction program. In January 2013, a bill titled “Small Supplier Fairness in Bidding Competition Act of 2013” was introduced to repeal the program. We cannot predict whether these or other efforts to repeal or amend the program will be successful, or their potential impact on us. We believe that our geographic coverage, clinical marketing programs and purchasing strength provide competitive advantages to maintain and enhance market share under Medicare competitive bidding. In February 2013 we were offered Round 2 competitive bidding contracts for a substantial majority of the CBAs and products for which we submitted bids. However, there is no guarantee that we will garner additional market share as a result of these contracts. Both the Round 1 Rebid Recompete and Round 2 of the DMEPOS competitive bidding program include products which may require the Company to subcontract certain services or products to be performed on its behalf, and there is no guarantee that CMS will either approve such subcontracting arrangements or that the subcontractor will perform its contractual obligations to us. Certain aspects of the program’s oversight and administration remain unclear in CMS’ written regulations that have been promulgated and therefore individual negotiations may be required between the Company, CMS and/or its contractors and the outcome of such negotiations cannot be predicted or assured. Under the current competitive bidding regulations, in the CBAs, and for the products, for which we do not have competitive bidding contracts, we will generally not be allowed to supply Medicare beneficiaries in the CBA with products subject to competitive bidding for the contract term of the program, unless we elect to continue to service existing patients under the “grandfathering provision” of the program’s final rule for certain products. Because of our combination of both managed care and traditional business, we believe we can nevertheless maintain a favorable overall market position in a particular CBA even if we are not a contract supplier for certain products. Medicare Fee Schedule for DMEPOS and Consumer Price Index-Urban (“CPI-U”) Adjustments. In addition to the adoption of the DMEPOS competitive bidding program, the MMA implemented a five-year freeze on annual Consumer Price Index (“CPI”) payment increases for most durable medical equipment from 2004 to 2008. In MIPPA, in order to offset the cost of delaying the implementation of the DMEPOS competitive bidding program, Congress approved a nationwide average payment reduction of 9.5% in the DMEPOS fee schedule payments for those product categories included in Round 1, effective January 1, 2009. Product categories subject to competitive bidding but furnished in non-competitive bid areas were eligible to receive mandatory annual CPI-U updates beginning in 2010. Competitively bid items and services in metropolitan areas with contracts in place are not eligible to receive a CPI-U payment update during a contract period, which, except for the mail order diabetes contract, is currently a three-year period. The DMEPOS items and services that were not in a product category subject to competitive bidding in Round 1 received a 5.0% CPI-U payment update in 2009. For 2010, the CPI-U was -1.4%. However, annual DMEPOS payment 14 Table of Contents updates were not permitted to be negative according to statute. Therefore, the CPI update in 2010 was 0%. The Reform Package makes changes to Medicare DMEPOS fee schedule payments for 2011 and subsequent years. The CPI-U payment update will now be adjusted annually by a new “multi-factor productivity adjustment” measurement which may result in negative DMEPOS payment updates. While CPI-U for 2011 was +1.1%, the “multi-factor productivity adjustment” was -1.2%, so the net result was a 0.1% decrease in DMEPOS fee schedule payments in 2011 for items and services not included in an area subject to competitive bidding. The CPI-U for 2012 was +3.6%, but the “multi-factor productivity adjustment” remained -1.2%, so the net result was a 2.4% increase in DMEPOS fee schedule payments in 2012 for items and services not included in an area subject to competitive bidding. For 2013, the CPI-U is +1.7%, but the adjustment is -0.9%, so the net result is a 0.8% increase in DMEPOS fee schedule payments in 2013 for the same items and services as described above. Capped Rentals, Oxygen Equipment and CPAP Patient Compliance. Under the DRA, ownership of certain durable medical equipment categorized by CMS in the “capped rental” category (e.g., hospital beds, wheelchairs, nebulizers, patient lifts and CPAP devices) automatically transfers to the Medicare beneficiary at the end of a maximum rental period. As of January 1, 2006, the maximum rental period for this category became 13 months. DRA regulations published subsequently established new payment classes for oxygen equipment, including transfilling and portable equipment, new monthly rental reimbursement rates, and new reimbursement rates for the delivery of oxygen contents. With respect to oxygen equipment, Medicare reimbursement for oxygen equipment is limited to a maximum of 36 months, after which time the equipment continues to be owned by the home oxygen provider for as long as the patient’s medical need exists and the provider continues to be responsible for his/her care. Limited reimbursement is available to providers from months 37 through 60, depending on the oxygen modality and patient’s needs. CMS does not reimburse suppliers for oxygen tubing, cannulas and supplies patients may need between the 37th and 60th months of oxygen therapy and requires that the initial supplier of oxygen therapy make arrangements with another supplier if a patient relocates temporarily or permanently outside of the initial supplier’s service area. In addition, CMS did not establish any reimbursement rates for non-routine services patients may require after the 36-month rental period. In fact, implementing regulations impose other repair and replacement obligations on suppliers with respect to equipment that does not last the useful lifetime of the equipment, which CMS has generally defined as being five years. The existing implementing regulations to the DRA and MIPPA provisions limit supplier replacement of oxygen equipment during the rental period, and require suppliers to replace equipment that does not last the useful lifetime of the equipment. After the five year useful life is reached, the patient may request replacement equipment and, if he/she can be requalified for the Medicare benefit, a new maximum 36-month rental period would begin. The supplier may not arbitrarily issue new equipment. Regarding repairs and maintenance of oxygen equipment, CMS revised its regulations so that for services provided on or after January 1, 2009, the implementing regulations permitted payment in calendar year 2009 only to suppliers for general maintenance and servicing of certain oxygen equipment every six months, beginning after the first six-month period elapsed after the initial 36-month rental period. The final rule governing repairs and maintenance of oxygen equipment limits payment for general maintenance and servicing visits to 30 minutes of labor based on rates the Medicare contractors establish. With respect to equipment parts, CMS has stated that payments will not be made for equipment parts and that the supplier is responsible for replacing the parts on equipment from the supplier’s inventory in order to meet the patient’s medical need for oxygen. CMS issued guidance in November 2009 continuing the general maintenance and servicing payments for certain oxygen equipment. In a proposed rule issued in June 2010, CMS proposed to change the threshold rental month from which the original oxygen supplier would continue to be responsible for serving a patient, regardless of his/her move outside of the supplier’s service area, from the 36th to the 18th month. The agency sought public comments, and in a final rule published in November 2010, the agency indicated that it would not change its current policy but would continue to study the issue. We cannot speculate on any future changes CMS may make to its repair, maintenance and service, supply or other fee schedules related to oxygen. We may or may not continue to provide repair and maintenance service on oxygen equipment that has met the cap. We routinely evaluate the impact of the changes caused by all applicable legislation and regulations and adjust our operating policies accordingly. In recent years, there have been several legislative and executive branch efforts to further reduce the maximum rental period for oxygen therapy, equipment and related services. Former President Bush’s 2007, 2008 and 2009 healthcare budget proposals sought to reduce the maximum rental period for oxygen equipment from the DRA-mandated 36 months to 13 months, which was recommended by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ (“HHS”) Office of Inspector General (“OIG”) in a limited study of the oxygen benefit published in 2006 entitled “Medicare Home Oxygen: Equipment Cost and Servicing.” Neither President Obama’s 2012 or 2013 budget proposals nor the Reform Package included a reduction in the oxygen rental period. However, President Obama’s 2013 fiscal budget proposal would limit the state Medicaid reimbursement levels for certain durable medical equipment services and products, including oxygen therapy, to Medicare reimbursement rates for the same products and services in the same state, including those impacted by the Medicare DMEPOS competitive bidding program. It is premature to know whether this or future budgets or proposals will contain such a provision or any other provisions based on these or future studies released by one or more government agencies. 15 Table of Contents Over the course of 2008, CMS and the durable medical equipment Medicare administrative contractors (“DME MACs”) issued coverage determinations for positive airway pressure (“PAP”) devices, including CPAP and bi-level devices. Among other changes, the Medicare DME MAC local coverage determinations (“LCDs”) require additional documentation of clinical benefit of the PAP devices for continued coverage of the device beyond the first three months of therapy. Specifically, for PAP devices with initial dates of service on or after November 1, 2008, documentation of clinical benefit must be demonstrated by: (1) a face-to-face clinical re-evaluation by the treating physician (between the 31st and 90th day) with documentation that symptoms of obstructive sleep apnea are improved; and (2) objective evidence of adherence to use of the PAP device, reviewed by the treating physician. The LCDs define adherence to therapy as the use of the PAP device greater than or equal to four (4) hours per night on 70% of nights during a consecutive 30-day period anytime during the first three months of initial usage. If the clinical benefit requirements are not met, then continued coverage of the PAP device and related accessories are denied by Medicare as not medically necessary. We believe these requirements effectively require suppliers to supply PAP devices that monitor patient compliance and record hours of use, which adds to our expense structure without a corresponding increase in payments from Medicare. We adjusted our operational model, patient care and payment policies to comply with these Medicare requirements. These requirements apply to Medicare Part B fee-for-service patients, not to those patients enrolled in Medicare Advantage or commercial health plans, and Medicare Part B fee-for-service represents a smaller portion of the overall PAP patient market. However, some commercial and Medicare Advantage payors are now implementing the same, similar or, at times, more arduous rules as those adopted by Medicare. Despite our intensive efforts to educate patients about the importance of complying with their physician-prescribed therapy, some of our patients do not meet the threshold for compliance. We continue to educate patients and referral sources concerning the importance of compliance with the patient’s prescribed therapy and the government’s need for documentation pertaining to initial and ongoing medical necessity. However, these and similar LCDs and trends are likely to continue to significantly impact the PAP industry. Reimbursement for Inhalation and Infusion Therapy Drugs. As a result of the MMA, Medicare Part B reimbursement for most drugs, including inhalation drugs, is based upon the manufacturer-reported average sales price (“ASP”) (subject to adjustment each quarter), plus 6%, plus a separate dispensing fee per patient episode. CMS publishes the ASP plus 6% payment levels in the month that precedes the first day of each quarter, and we have no way of knowing if the quarterly ASPs will increase or decrease since manufacturers report applicable ASP information directly to CMS. Since 2006, dispensing fees have remained at $57.00 for a 30-day supply for a new patient, $33.00 for each 30-day supply thereafter, and $66.00 for each 90-day supply. The Medicare reimbursement methodology for non-compounded, infused drugs administered through durable medical equipment, such as infusion pumps, was not affected by this MMA change. It remains based upon either 95% of the October 1, 2003 Average Wholesale Price (“AWP”) or, for those drugs whose AWPs were not published in the applicable 2003 compendia, at 95% of the first published AWP. At this time, however, we cannot predict whether the Medicare reimbursement methodology for these drugs will change, as these drugs/therapies could be included in future phases of the DMEPOS competitive bidding program. Late in the last decade, there were other changes to the reimbursement methodology for certain inhalation drugs. In 2007, CMS reduced its reimbursement to providers of Xopenex and albuterol, when CMS changed its reimbursement methodology for calculating the ASP. We implemented strategies intended to partially mitigate these negative impacts in our operations, including the discontinuation of the inhalation drug Xopenex from our inhalation pharmacies’ drug formulary and other formulary changes. A limited number of infusion therapies, supplies and equipment are covered by Medicare Part B. The MMA, through the Medicare Part D program, provided expanded coverage for certain home infusion therapy drugs, but excluded coverage for the corresponding supplies and clinical services needed to safely and effectively administer these drugs. We have contracted with a limited number of Medicare Part D payors with prescription drug plans. Due to ongoing Part D and Part B coverage and payment issues associated with home infusion therapy, the industry is continuing to work with CMS, the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation (“CMMI”) and Congress to rectify the Medicare coverage and payment limitations that restrict Medicare beneficiary and referral source access to quality home infusion therapy services. Bills were introduced in the 110th, 111th and 112th Congresses to consolidate home infusion therapy coverage under Part B. The Medicare Home Infusion Therapy Coverage Act would provide for Medicare infusion benefit coverage in a more comprehensive manner that is analogous to how the therapy is covered by the managed care sector, including Medicare Advantage plans. Industry representatives continue to present the cost-saving and patient care advantages of home infusion therapy to CMS, members of Congress and the Obama Administration in an effort to, at a 16 Table of Contents minimum, include a formal demonstration project in either CMS’s or the CMMI’s work plan or future legislation. In addition to a June 2010 report issued by the Government Accountability Office (“GAO”), entitled “Home Infusion Therapy: Differences Between Medicare and Private Insurers’ Coverage,” testimony before the Senate Finance Committee in fall 2009 acknowledged the current gap in coverage and potential benefits of home infusion therapy to the Medicare program and beneficiaries. In June 2012, the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (“MedPAC”), in its annual report to Congress, also acknowledged certain coverage gaps associated with home infusion therapy and concluded that additional research is warranted. On June 19, 2012, the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health held a hearing that focused on MedPAC’s report. Groups such as the National Home Infusion Association, in comments to the Subcommittee, criticized MedPAC’s report and recommended that there be a demonstration project to examine the benefit for home infusion therapy. The industry is continuing to collect cost-benefit data that will provide an objective basis for Congress, CMS and or the CMMI to make a decision to fund a demonstration project. At this time, we cannot predict whether legislation will be passed or whether CMS and/or the CMMI will include a demonstration project in a future work plan. Enrollment and Accreditation of Durable Medical Equipment Suppliers; Surety Bond Requirements. While we support the elimination of fraudulent suppliers and are working with CMS to support these initiatives, some of the CMS initiatives and developments with respect to the enrollment and accreditation of providers could impact our operations in the future. For example, all durable medical equipment providers who bill the Medicare program for DMEPOS services and products are required by MIPPA to be accredited. Although we and all of our branches currently are accredited, if we or any of our branches lose accreditation, or if any of our new branches are unable to become accredited, that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow and capital resources. CMS also requires that all durable medical equipment providers who bill the Medicare program maintain a surety bond of $50,000 per National Provider Identifier (“NPI”) number which Medicare has approved for billing privileges. We obtained the required surety bonds for all of our applicable locations before the October 2009 deadline and, more recently, for acquired companies. In addition, the NSC prescribes an elevated bond amount of $50,000 per occurrence of an adverse legal action within the 10 years preceding enrollment, reenrollment or revalidation. The rule is designed to ensure that Medicare can recover any erroneous payment amounts or civil money penalties up to $50,000 that result from fraudulent or abusive supplier billing practices. In recent years, CMS has announced enhancements to its program integrity initiatives designed to identify and prevent waste, fraud and abuse. The initiatives include: (i) conducting more stringent reviews of DMEPOS suppliers’ applications, including background checks of new DMEPOS suppliers’ principals and owners to ensure they have not been suspended by Medicare; (ii) making unannounced site visits to suppliers and home health agencies to ensure they are active, legitimate businesses; (iii) implementing extensive pre- and post-payment claims review; (iv) verifying the relationship between physicians who order a large volume of DMEPOS equipment and the beneficiaries for whom they ordered these services; and (v) identifying and visiting beneficiaries to ensure appropriate receipt of Medicare-reimbursable items and services. We work cooperatively with CMS and its contractors in response to these initiatives but cannot predict whether CMS’s various program integrity efforts will or will not negatively impact our operations. In February 2011, CMS released a final rule implementing certain provisions of the Reform Package intended to prevent fraud, waste and abuse. This final rule includes new requirements regarding enrollment screening, enrollment application fees, payment suspension, temporary moratoria on enrollment and supplier termination. Significantly, as part of the final rule, CMS classified providers and suppliers as limited, moderate and high risk according to their risk of fraud, waste and abuse. Currently enrolled DMEPOS suppliers are classified in the moderate risk category while newly enrolled DMEPOS suppliers are classified in the high risk category. As such, DMEPOS suppliers will be under greater scrutiny relative to many other healthcare providers and suppliers. In October 2011, Senators Orrin Hatch and Charles Grassley sent a letter to U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius, asking for an explanation as to why CMS had yet to impose temporary moratoria on the enrollment of new providers and suppliers where there is a high risk for fraud. Additionally, CMS implemented a provider and supplier enrollment screening system that will automate its pre-enrollment risk assessment and screening processes. We work cooperatively with CMS and its contractors in response to these initiatives to prevent fraud, waste and abuse but cannot predict whether CMS’s various program integrity efforts will negatively impact our operations. In August 2010, CMS released a final rule imposing more stringent standards for DMEPOS suppliers, which introduced several new enrollment standards and expanded some existing standards and participation requirements, all of which DMEPOS suppliers must meet to establish and maintain billing privileges in the Medicare program. These standards became effective in September 2010. More recently, on March 14, 2012, CMS issued a final rule revising four of the 30 Medicare supplier standards that apply to our business. The final rule clarified regulations concerning direct solicitation of Medicare beneficiaries, addressed the use of licensed subcontractors to perform certain services on a supplier’s behalf and modified certain state licensure exceptions. The Company’s policies and procedures comply with the revised standards. 17 Table of Contents Following the implementation of a three-year demonstration program using Recovery Audit Contractors (“RACs”) to detect and correct improper payments in the Medicare fee-for-service program, the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 required HHS to establish the RAC initiative as a permanent, nationwide program by January 1, 2010. CMS selected the four RAC contractors for the permanent RAC program, and it is currently underway. Prior to initiating any audits, RACs are required to obtain CMS’s pre-approval of the issue that will be subject to audit, and then post the approved audit issue on their websites. All RACs have now posted CMS-approved audit issues on their websites. The currently posted approved audit issues include those which apply to durable medical equipment suppliers. States have also implemented similar state Medicaid audit programs, often known as Medicaid Integrity Contractors (“MICs”). The Reform Package expands the RAC program to include Medicare Parts C and D in the program. In addition, the Reform Package requires states to establish contracts with RACs to identify underpayments and overpayments and to recoup overpayments made for services provided under state Medicaid programs. Absent an exception, states were required to implement their RAC programs by January 1, 2012. In addition, in March of 2010, President Obama issued a presidential memorandum announcing a government-wide program expanding the use of “payment recapture audits” in order to reclaim improper payments. We cannot at this time quantify any negative impact that the expansion of the RAC program or other similar programs may have on us. Another group of auditors is the Zone Program Integrity Contractors (“ZPICs”), who are responsible for ensuring the integrity of all Medicare-related claims. The ZPICs assumed the responsibilities previously held by Medicare’s Program Safeguard Contractors (“PSCs”). Industry-wide, ZPIC audit activity increased significantly throughout 2010, accelerated in 2011 and again in 2012; it is expected to continue to increase for the foreseeable future as additional ZPICs become operational across the country. The industry trade associations and certain Congressional committees of jurisdiction are advocating for more standardized audit procedures, contractor transparency and consistency surrounding all government audit activity directed toward the DMEPOS industry and other healthcare segments. Most recently, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 extended the recoupment period for overpayments from three years to five years. This further expands the scope of audit activity, which is already paper-intensive, administratively burdensome and redundant. Appeals are protracted over many months. We cannot predict the impact of all governmental auditing activities and ever-changing rules issued by the same on our business, but it may be material. Other Issues • Medical Necessity & Other Documentation Requirements. In order to ensure that Medicare beneficiaries only receive medically necessary and appropriate items and services, the Medicare program has adopted a number of documentation requirements. For example, the DME MAC Supplier Manuals provide that clinical information from the “patient’s medical record” is required to justify the initial and ongoing medical necessity for the provision of DME. DME MAC medical directors, CMS staff and government subcontractors have taken the position, among other things, that the “patient’s medical record” refers not to documentation maintained by the DME supplier but instead to documentation maintained by the patient’s physician, healthcare facility or other clinician, and that clinical information created by the DME supplier’s personnel and confirmed by the patient’s physician is not sufficient to establish medical necessity. It may be difficult, and sometimes impossible, for us to obtain documentation from other healthcare providers. Moreover, auditors’ interpretations of these policies are inconsistent and subject to individual interpretation. This is then translated to individual supplier significant error rates and aggregated into a DMEPOS industry error rate, which is significantly higher than other Medicare provider/supplier types. High error rates lead to further audit activity and regulatory burdens. In 2012, DME MACs continued to conduct extensive pre-payment reviews across the DME industry and have determined a wide range of error rates with only marginal improvement over time. For example, error rates for CPAP claims have ranged from 30% to 80%. DME MACs have repeatedly cited medical necessity documentation insufficiencies or technical deficiencies as the primary reason for claim denials. If these or other burdensome positions are generally adopted by auditors, DME MACs, other contractors or CMS in administering the Medicare program, or if non-government payors were to adopt similar positions, we would have the right to challenge these positions as being contrary to law. If these interpretations of the documentation requirements are ultimately upheld, however, it could result in our making significant refunds and other payments to Medicare and our future revenues from Medicare may be significantly reduced. We have adjusted certain operational policies to address the current expectations of Medicare, its contractors and certain other payors. • Face-to-Face Requirements. In November 2012, CMS issued a Final Rule pertaining to additional face-to-face documentation requirements associated with a variety of DMEPOS products and services. The rule was promulgated as part of the Reform Package. In it, CMS outlined the general requirements to be included in patients’ medical records as maintained by their physicians or healthcare practitioners in order to justify the medical necessity for DMEPOS. The requirements take effect on July 1, 2013. CMS expects to launch supplier and referral source education in the spring of 2013, and we will adjust both our policies/procedures and IT 18 Table of Contents systems accordingly to comply with the new regulations. We cannot predict the adverse impact, if any, of the documentation requirements or our revised policies might have on our operations, referral source relationships, cash flow and capital resources, but such impact could be material. • Inherent Reasonableness. The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 granted authority to HHS to increase or reduce Medicare Part B reimbursement for home medical equipment, including oxygen, by up to 15% each year under an “inherent reasonableness” authority. Pursuant to that authority, CMS published a final rule that established a process by which such adjustments may be made. The rule applies to all Medicare Part B services except those paid under a physician fee schedule, a prospective payment system, or a competitive bidding program. Aside from a 2012 announcement by CMS to use the authority to reduce retail payment rates for diabetic supplies – a plan made moot by recent legislation – neither HHS nor CMS has issued any subsequent communication or information for several years and therefore, we cannot predict whether or when HHS would exercise its authority in this area or predict any negative impact of any such change. The impact of increased government audits and changes in Medicare reimbursement that have been enacted to date are reflected in our results of operations for the applicable periods through December 31, 2012. We cannot estimate the combined possible impact of all retroactive audit activities, legislative, regulatory and contemplated reimbursement changes that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, and capital resources. Moreover, our estimates of the impact of certain of these changes appearing in this “Government Regulation” section are based on a number of assumptions and are subject to uncertainties and there can be no assurance that the actual impact was not or will not be different from our estimates. However, given the recent significant increases in industry audit volume and the increasing regulatory burdens associated with responding to those audits, it is likely that the negative pressures from legislative and regulatory changes will continue and accelerate. Medicaid Reimbursement. State Medicaid programs implement reimbursement policies for the items and services we provide that may or may not be similar to those of the Medicare program. Budget pressures on these state programs often result in pricing and coverage changes and delayed payment practices that may have a detrimental impact on our operations and/or financial performance. States sometimes have interposed intermediaries to administer their Medicaid programs, or have adopted alternative pricing methodologies for certain drugs, biologicals, and home medical equipment under their Medicaid programs that reduce the level of reimbursement received by us without a corresponding offset or increase to compensate for the service costs incurred. We periodically evaluate the possibility of stopping or reducing our Medicaid business in a number of states with reimbursement or administrative policies that make it difficult for us to safely care for patients or conduct operations profitably. Moreover, the Reform Package increases Medicaid enrollment over a number of years and imposes additional requirements on states which, combined with the current economic environment and state deficits, could further strain state budgets and therefore result in additional policy changes or rate reductions. On June 28, 2012, the United States Supreme Court upheld the Reform Package provision expanding Medicaid eligibility to new populations as constitutional, but only so long as the expansion of the Medicaid program is optional for the states. States that choose not to expand their Medicaid programs to newly eligible populations can only lose the new federal Medicaid funding included in the Reform Package but cannot lose their eligibility for existing federal Medicaid matching payments. In view of the Supreme Court decision, some states have announced plans to reduce their Medicaid enrollments, which may have a negative impact on our revenues. We cannot currently predict the adverse impact, if any, that any such change to or reduction in our Medicaid business might have on our operations, cash flow and capital resources, but such impact could be material. In addition, we cannot predict whether states will consider similar or other reimbursement reductions, whether or how healthcare reform provisions pertaining to Medicaid will ultimately be implemented or whether any such changes would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow and capital resources. HIPAA. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) is comprised of a number of components pertaining to the privacy and security of certain protected health information (“PHI”), as well as the standard formatting of certain electronic health transactions. Many states have similar, but not identical, restrictions. Existing and any new laws or regulations have a significant effect on the manner in which we handle healthcare related data and communicate with payors. Among other provisions, the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (“HITECH”) Act of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”) includes additional requirements related to the privacy and security of PHI, clarifies and increases penalties of HIPAA and provides State Attorneys General with HIPAA enforcement authority. In January 2013, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services released the HIPAA regulations (the “Omnibus Rule”) implementing the statutory amendments under the HITECH Act. The effective date of the Omnibus Rule is March 26, 2013, with a compliance date of September 23, 2013 for most provisions. Among the numerous changes the Omnibus Rule makes to the HIPAA privacy and security regulations, several specific provisions in the Omnibus Rule are likely to have significant impact. By way of example, the Omnibus Rule: • replaces the current “significant risk of harm” standard with a “low probability of compromise” standard for determining whether a security incident is reportable, which may result in more breach notifications being made. 19 Table of Contents • expands the definition of “marketing” and, in turn, extends the range of marketing activities requiring prior written authorization. • removes an exception in the HIPAA Privacy Rule that has protected Covered Entities from liabilities associated with acts of Business Associates, even where the Covered Entity has complied with its contractual obligations and had no knowledge of the wrongdoing. • makes clear the direct liability that flows to Business Associates as a result of the modifications to the HITECH Act. We have adopted a number of policies and procedures to conform to HIPAA requirements, as modified by the HITECH Act of ARRA, throughout our operations, and we continually educate our workforce about these requirements. With such a large workforce that increasingly relies on mobile technology for daily operations, HIPAA privacy or data security is always a concern. We face potential administrative, civil and criminal sanctions if we do not comply with the existing or new laws and regulations dealing with the privacy and security of PHI. Imposition of any such sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our operations. HHS has entered into settlement agreements with entities who violate HIPAA, including those organizations that have experienced a breach of PHI. HHS announced the first settlement agreement related to a breach involving less than 500 individuals. HHS also has entered into settlement agreements with entities that have experienced a breach involving more than 500 individuals. In 2012, a Company-owned laptop containing PHI was stolen from a locked vehicle. The Company thoroughly investigated the incident and, as applicable and required by law, notified individuals and government authorities. The Company also provided the option of complimentary credit monitoring to affected individuals. At this time there have been no claims against the Company related to this incident, although the Company cannot predict whether such claims will occur in the future. The Company is taking additional steps to minimize the chances of a reoccurrence of this type of incident. Enforcement of Healthcare Fraud and Abuse Laws. In recent years, the federal government has made a policy decision to significantly increase and accelerate the financial resources allocated to enforcing the healthcare fraud and abuse laws. Moreover, Congress adopted a number of additional provisions in the Reform Package that are designed to reduce healthcare fraud and abuse. In addition, private insurers and various state enforcement agencies have increased their level of scrutiny of healthcare claims through pre- and post-payment audit activities in an effort to identify and prosecute fraudulent and abusive practices in the healthcare area. From time to time, we may be the subject of investigations or a party to additional litigation which alleges violations of law. If any of those matters were successfully asserted against us, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or prospects. Anti-Kickback Statutes. As a provider of services under the Medicare and Medicaid programs, we must comply with a provision of the federal Social Security Act, commonly known as the “federal anti-kickback statute.” The federal anti-kickback statute prohibits the offer or receipt of any bribe, kickback or rebate in return for the referral or arranging for the referral of patients, products or services covered by federal healthcare programs. Federal healthcare programs have been defined to include plans and programs that provide health benefits funded by the United States Government, including Medicare, Medicaid and TRICARE (formerly known as the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services or CHAMPUS), among others. Some courts and the OIG interpret the statute to cover any arrangement where even one purpose of the remuneration is to influence referrals. Violations of the federal anti-kickback statute may result in civil and criminal penalties and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. Due to the breadth of the federal anti-kickback statute’s broad prohibition, there are a few statutory exceptions that protect various common business transactions and arrangements from prosecution. In addition, the OIG has published safe harbor regulations that outline other arrangements that also are deemed protected from prosecution under the federal anti-kickback statute, provided all applicable criteria are met. The failure of an activity to meet all of the applicable safe harbor criteria does not necessarily mean that the particular arrangement violates the federal anti-kickback law, but these arrangements will be subject to greater scrutiny by enforcement agencies. Some states have enacted statutes and regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback statute, but which apply not only to the federal healthcare programs, but also to any payor source of the patient. These state laws may contain exceptions and safe harbors that are different from those of the federal law and that may vary from state to state. A number of states in which we operate have laws that prohibit fee-splitting arrangements between healthcare providers, if such arrangements are designed to induce or encourage the referral of patients to a particular provider. Additionally, several states have passed laws further regulating interactions between healthcare providers and physician referral sources. For example, the state of New York requires certain healthcare providers to file a formal annual statement in which they attest that they have adopted a formal corporate compliance program which meets the state’s specific requirements; we comply with that annual requirement. Possible sanctions for violations of these restrictions include exclusion from state-funded healthcare programs, loss of licensure, and civil and criminal penalties. Such statutes vary from state to state, are often vague and often have been subject to only limited court or regulatory agency interpretation. 20 Table of Contents Marketing Laws. Because of our drug compounding and oxygen services, we may be subject to new and increasingly common state laws and regulations regarding our marketing activities and the nature of our interactions with physicians and other healthcare entity customers. These laws may require us to comply with certain codes of conduct, limit or report certain marketing expenses, disclose certain physician and customer arrangements, and ensure the appropriate licensure of certain sales personnel. There have also been similar federal legislative and regulatory initiatives. Violations of these laws and regulations, to the extent applicable, could subject us to civil and criminal fines and penalties, as well as possible exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. From time to time, we may be the subject of investigations or audits or be a party to litigation which alleges violations of these laws. If any of those matters were successfully asserted against us, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or prospects. Physician Self-Referral. Certain provisions of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (the “Stark Law”) prohibit healthcare providers such as us, subject to certain exceptions, from submitting claims to the Medicare and Medicaid programs for designated health services if we have a financial relationship with the physician making the referral for such services or with a member of such physician’s immediate family. The term “designated health services” includes several services commonly performed or supplied by us, including durable medical equipment and home health services. In addition, “financial relationship” is broadly defined to include any ownership or investment interest or compensation arrangement pursuant to which a physician receives remuneration from the provider at issue. The Stark Law prohibition applies regardless of the reasons for the financial relationship and the referral; and therefore, unlike the federal anti-kickback statute, an intent to violate the law is not required. Like the federal anti-kickback statute, the Stark Law contains a number of statutory and regulatory exceptions intended to protect certain types of transactions and business arrangements from penalty. In order to qualify an arrangement under a Stark Law exception, compliance with all of the exception’s requirements is necessary. Violations of the Stark Law may result in loss of Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, civil penalties and exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition, a number of the states in which we operate have similar prohibitions against physician self-referrals, which may not necessarily be limited to Medicare or Medicaid services and may not include the same statutory and regulatory exceptions found in the Stark Law. False Claims. The federal False Claims Acts impose civil and criminal liability on individuals or entities that submit false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government. Violations of the federal civil False Claims Act may result in treble damages, civil monetary penalties and exclusion from the Medicare, Medicaid and other federally funded healthcare programs. If certain criteria are satisfied, the federal civil False Claims Act allows a private individual to bring a qui tam suit on behalf of the government and, if the case is successful, to share in any recovery. Federal False Claims Act suits brought directly by the government or private individuals against healthcare providers, like us, are increasingly common and are expected to continue to increase. The federal government has used the federal False Claims Act to prosecute a wide variety of alleged false claims and fraud allegedly perpetrated against Medicare and state healthcare programs. The government and a number of courts also have taken the position that claims presented in violation of certain other statutes, including the federal anti-kickback statute or the Stark Law, can be considered a violation of the federal False Claims Act, based on the theory that a provider impliedly certifies compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and other rules when submitting claims for reimbursement. On May 20, 2009, President Obama signed into law the Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act of 2009 (“FERA”). Among other things, FERA modifies the federal False Claims Act by expanding liability to contractors and subcontractors who do not directly present claims to the federal government. FERA also expanded the False Claims Act liability for what is referred to as a “reverse false claim” by explicitly making it unlawful to knowingly conceal or knowingly and improperly avoid or decrease an obligation owed to the federal government. A number of states have enacted false claims acts that are similar to the federal False Claims Act. Even more states are expected to do so in the future because Section 6031 of the DRA amended the federal law to encourage these types of changes in law at the state level. In addition, there is a corresponding increase in state-initiated false claims enforcement efforts. Other Fraud and Abuse Laws. HIPAA created, in part, two new federal crimes: “Healthcare Fraud” and “False Statements Relating to Healthcare Matters.” The Healthcare Fraud statute prohibits executing a knowing and willful scheme or artifice to defraud any healthcare benefit program. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines and/or 21 Table of Contents imprisonment. The False Statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact by any trick, scheme or device or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines and/or imprisonment. The increased public focus on waste, fraud and abuse and their related cost to society will likely result in additional Congressional hearings, CMS regulatory changes and/or new laws. The Reform Package also provides for new regulatory authority, additional fines and penalties. At this time, we cannot predict whether these or other reforms will ultimately become law, or the impact of such reforms on our business operations and financial performance. Facility and Clinician Licensure. Various federal and state authorities and clinical practice boards regulate the licensure of our facilities and clinical specialists working for us, either directly as employees or on a per diem or contractual basis. Regulations and requirements vary from state to state, and in some states, we are required to make filings in connection with transactions that may be defined as a change of control. Moreover, several states are currently contemplating the establishment or expansion of facility licensure related to the home healthcare industry, and such changes may require us to modify our operations, particularly in multi-state service areas. We are committed to complying with all applicable licensing requirements and maintain centralized functions to manage over 4,500 facility licenses and/or permits that are required to operate our business. Healthcare Reform. Economic, political and regulatory influences are causing fundamental changes in the healthcare industry in the United States. Various healthcare reform proposals are formulated and proposed by the legislative and administrative branches of the federal government on a regular basis. In addition, some of the states in which we operate periodically consider various healthcare reform proposals. Even with the passage of the Reform Package, we anticipate that federal and state governments will continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery systems and payment methodologies and public debate of these issues will continue in the future. On June 28, 2012, the United States Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of the requirement in the Reform Package that individuals maintain health insurance or pay a penalty under Congress’s taxing power. The Supreme Court also upheld the Reform Package provision expanding Medicaid eligibility to new populations as constitutional, but only so long as the expansion of the Medicaid program is optional for the states. Changes in the law or new interpretations of existing laws can have a substantial effect on permissible activities, the relative costs associated with doing business in the healthcare industry and the amount of reimbursement by governmental and other third-party payors. Also, the government is in the process of promulgating the implementing rules and regulations of the Reform Package, including additional requirements related to our business and that of our customers. Until those rules are more clearly understood, and due to uncertainties regarding the ultimate features of additional reform initiatives and their enactment and implementation over the next few years, we cannot predict whether any such reforms will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity. Iran Sanctions Related Disclosure Under the Iran Threat Reduction and Syrian Human Rights Act of 2012, which added Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act, we are required to include certain disclosures in our periodic reports if we or any of our “affiliates” knowingly engaged in certain specified activities during the period covered by the report. Because the SEC defines the term “affiliate” broadly, it includes any entity controlled by us as well as any person or entity that controls us or is under common control with us (“control” is also construed broadly by the SEC). We are not presently aware that we and our consolidated subsidiaries have knowingly engaged in any transaction or dealing reportable under Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act during the year ended December 31, 2012. In addition, we sought confirmation from companies that may be considered our affiliates as to whether they have knowingly engaged in any such reportable transactions or dealings during such period and, except as described below, are not presently aware of any such reportable transactions or dealings by such companies. The Blackstone Group L.P. (“Blackstone”), our Sponsor, filed with the SEC its Annual Report on Form 10-K on March 1, 2013. Blackstone included within Exhibit 99.1 to its Form 10-K statements regarding certain activities of two companies that may be considered its affiliates: TRW Automotive Holdings Corp. (“TRW”) and Travelport Limited (“Travelport”). We have no involvement in or control over the activities of TRW or Travelport, any of their predecessor companies or any of their subsidiaries, and we have not independently verified or participated in the preparation of the disclosures regarding activities of TRW (the “TRW Disclosure”) or Travelport (the “Travelport Disclosure”). Those disclosures are as follows: TRW Disclosure: “Pursuant to Section 13(r)(1)(D)(iii) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), we note that in 2012 certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries sold products to customers that could be affiliated with, or deemed to be acting on behalf of, the Industrial Development and Renovation Organization, which has been designated as an agency of the Government of Iran. Gross revenue attributable to such sales was approximately $8,326,000, and net profit from such sales was approximately $377,000. Although these activities were not prohibited by U.S. law at the time they were conducted, our subsidiaries have discontinued their dealings with such customers, other than limited wind-down activities (which are permissible), and we do not otherwise intend to continue or enter into any Iran-related activity.” Travelport Disclosure: “As part of our global business in the travel industry, we provide certain passenger travel-related GDS and airline IT services to Iran Air. We also provide certain airline IT services to Iran Air Tours. All of these services are either exempt from applicable sanctions prohibitions pursuant to a statutory exemption permitting transactions ordinarily incident to travel or, to the extent not otherwise exempt, specifically licensed by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control. Subject to any changes in the exempt/licensed status of such activities, we intend to continue these business activities, which are directly related to and promote the arrangement of travel for individuals.” Employees As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 13,700 employees, of which 12,400 were full-time and 1,300 were part-time and per diem. As of December 31, 2012, none of our employees were represented by a labor union or other labor organization. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks. The following discussion highlights some of these risks and others are discussed elsewhere in this report. These and other risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects, operating results or cash flows. The following risk factors are not an exhaustive list of the risks associated with our business. New factors may emerge or changes to these risks could occur that could materially affect our business. Risks Relating to Our Business Continued Reductions in Medicare and Medicaid Reimbursement Rates Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business Results of Operations and Financial Condition. There are ongoing legislative and regulatory efforts to reduce or otherwise adversely affect Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates for products and services we provide. For example, the regulations implementing the mandates under the MMA, the DRA, MIPPA and the Reform Package reduced the reimbursement for a number of products and services we provide and established or expanded a competitive bidding program for certain durable medical equipment under Medicare Part B. The Medicare DMEPOS competitive bidding program is intended to further reduce reimbursement for certain 22 Table of Contents products and to decrease the number of companies permitted to serve Medicare beneficiaries. In July 2008, MIPPA was passed and included a delay to the competitive bidding program. In order to ensure that the delay would achieve the same level of savings projected for the DMEPOS competitive bidding program, Congress adopted a nationwide average payment reduction of 9.5% in the DMEPOS fee schedule for those product categories included in Round 1, effective January 1, 2009. CMS was required to conduct the Round 1 Rebid and mandated certain changes for both the Round 1 Rebid and subsequent rounds of the program. Approximately $16.6 million of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012 was generated by the products and CBAs included in the Round 1 Rebid, net of both the average price reduction of 32% as reported by CMS and volume fluctuations in the markets over the first two years of the three-year contract. When the additional products to be included in the more recent Round 1 Recompete process are accounted for, the same markets generated approximately $20.1 million in the year ended December 31, 2012. The Round 1 Recompete phase of the program takes effect in January 2014. Round 2 will include the majority of the same product categories as the Round 1 Rebid, but also include (i) a new product category including standard power wheelchairs and manual wheelchairs, (ii) Negative Pressure Wound Therapy, (iii) Support Surfaces (Group 2 mattresses and overlays) in all Round 2 markets and (iv) a national mail order competition for diabetic supplies. The bid process for Round 2 ended on March 30, 2012, and CMS announced the Single Payment Amounts (“SPAs”) on January 30, 2013, at which time the agency began the contract offer process. CMS expects the contracting process to continue through March 2013. We estimate that approximately $122 million of our net revenues for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2012 are subject to Round 2 competitive bidding. CMS reported that the average payment reduction for Round 2 will be 45%. After applying the actual SPAs for each impacted CBA to Apria’s actual 2012 revenue for the product categories included in the bidding program, the Company estimates that the Round 2 revenue reduction is $57 million before any changes in volume are accounted for as a result of the contract offers received and accepted. The extent of the industry-wide competitive bidding reductions will likely have a profound effect on our competitors as well as ourselves. In April 2012, CMS announced the timeline and product categories for the Round 1 Rebid Recompete. Bidding commenced in Fall 2012, with a deadline of December 14, 2012 by which to submit bids. The new rates for this round are scheduled to take effect on January 1, 2014. We cannot estimate the impact of Round 1 Recompete’s new rates on our business until the government publishes the results of that bidding round later this year. The Reform Package also made changes to the competitive bidding program and gave the Secretary of Health and Human Services the authority to apply competitive bid pricing to non-bid areas after a rulemaking process, effective in 2016. At this time, we cannot quantify what negative impact, if any, the revised program will have upon our revenue or operations when the program is reinitiated, but such impact would likely be material. Further, the DRA resulted in reduced reimbursement rates for certain durable medical equipment, including the home oxygen equipment and services we provide, a reduced period for rental revenue, and potential increased costs to us associated with replacement of certain patient-owned equipment. There have been various administrative and legislative proposals to further reduce the maximum capped rental period for oxygen equipment below the 36-month level mandated by the DRA to 13 and 18 months, respectively, and/or to reduce the monthly payment rates for oxygen equipment. There are also ongoing state and federal legislative and regulatory efforts to reduce or otherwise adversely affect Medicaid reimbursement rates for products and services we provide. For a number of years, some states have adopted alternative pricing methodologies for certain drugs, biologicals and home medical equipment reimbursed under the Medicaid program. In a number of states, the changes reduced the level of reimbursement we received for these items without a corresponding offset or increase to compensate for the service costs we incurred. We periodically evaluate the possibility of stopping or reducing our Medicaid business in a number of states with reimbursement policies that make it difficult for us to conduct operations profitably. Moreover, the Reform Package increases Medicaid enrollment over a number of years and imposes additional requirements on states, which could further strain state budgets and therefore result in additional policy changes or rate reductions. On June 28, 2012, the United States Supreme Court upheld the Reform Package provision expanding Medicaid eligibility to new populations as constitutional, but only so long as the expansion of the Medicaid program is optional for the states. States that choose not to expand their Medicaid programs to newly eligible populations can only lose the new federal Medicaid funding included in the Reform Package but cannot lose their eligibility for existing federal Medicaid matching payments. In addition, changes to the federal regulations pertaining to prescription drug pricing may also impact the Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement available to us. The President’s 2013 fiscal budget proposal would limit the state Medicaid reimbursement levels for certain durable medical equipment services and products to Medicare reimbursement rates for the same products and services in the same state, including those impacted by the Medicare DMEPOS competitive bidding program. In view of the Supreme Court decision, some states have announced plans to reduce their Medicaid enrollments, which may have a negative impact on our revenues. We cannot currently predict the adverse impact, if any, that any such 23 Table of Contents changes to or reduction in our Medicaid business might have on our operations, cash flow and capital resources, but such impact could be material. In addition, we cannot predict whether other states will consider similar or other reimbursement reductions or whether any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow and capital resources. We cannot estimate the ultimate impact of all legislated and contemplated Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement changes or provide assurance to investors that additional reimbursement reductions will not be made or will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity. However, given the recent significant increases in industry audit volume, auditors’ interpretation and enforcement of documentation requirements and the increasing regulatory burdens associated with responding to those audits, it is likely that the negative pressures from legislative and regulatory changes will continue and accelerate. For further information, see “Business—Government Regulation.” The Comprehensive Healthcare Reform Law and Other Federal and State Legislative Efforts Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. Federal and state legislative and regulatory activities may materially affect reimbursement policies and rates for other items and services we provide and may otherwise affect our business results of operations and financial condition. For example, in March 2010, Congress enacted the Reform Package which includes comprehensive healthcare reform. Among many other provisions, the Reform Package expands the Medicaid program, mandates extensive insurance market reforms, creates new health insurance access points (e.g., insurance exchanges), provides certain insurance subsidies (e.g., premiums and cost sharing), imposes individual and employer health insurance requirements and makes a number of changes to the Code. There are various provisions in the Reform Package that impact our business. For example, the Reform Package requires certain pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers to pay an excise tax to the government, which may, in turn, increase our costs for these products. The Reform Package also provides for cuts in some Medicare payments made to certain providers and substantial cuts to Medicare Advantage plans, through which we contract to provide services to Medicare beneficiaries. Also included in the Reform Package are (i) an expansion of the Recovery Audit Contractor Program, (ii) certain fraud and abuse prevention measures and (iii) expanded regulatory authority concerning the types of conduct that can result in additional fines and penalties for those healthcare providers who do not comply with applicable laws and regulations. Furthermore, the Reform Package grants the Secretary of Health and Human Services authority to set a date by which certain providers and suppliers will be required to establish a compliance program. The Reform Package makes a number of changes to how certain of our products will be reimbursed by Medicare. As discussed above, the Reform Package made changes to the Medicare durable medical equipment CPI adjustment for 2011 and each subsequent year based upon the CPI-U reduced by a new multi-factor productivity adjustment which may result in negative updates. The law also includes changes to the Medicare DMEPOS competitive bidding program. In an effort to further strengthen the integrity of the Medicare program, the Reform Package includes additional requirements concerning physician enrollment and certain mandatory face-to-face patient/physician visits in conjunction with the ordering of durable medical equipment. These provisions have been and will continue to be the subject of rulemaking and are a high priority for the American Association for Homecare and other industry representative organizations. We expect the Administration to continue to enhance its oversight efforts and we strive to incorporate any necessary changes into its overall policies, procedures, corporate compliance and internal audit programs on a regular basis. The effective dates of the various provisions within the Reform Package are staggered over several years. Much of the interpretation of what the Reform Package requires will be subject to administrative rulemaking, the development of agency guidance and court interpretations. We cannot currently predict the full impact of the Reform Package on our operations, cash flow and capital resources, but such impact could be material. In addition, other legislative and regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity. Also, the number of the uninsured in the United States has had an impact on certain healthcare services and products that may be more discretionary in nature. This has resulted in a slowing down of certain growth rates due to the patients’ more limited ability to pay the associated out-of-pocket fees. This could continue as the number of uninsured persons remains high. 24 Table of Contents We Believe That Continued Pressure to Reduce Healthcare Costs Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Us. As a result of continuing reductions in payor reimbursement, we, like many other healthcare companies, are making substantial efforts to reduce our costs in providing healthcare services and products. Many managed care organizations and insurers also regularly attempt to seek reductions in the prices at which we provide services to them and their patients. Some managed care organizations and insurers also propose to limit coverage for our products and services and implement onerous payment rules, policies, administrative burdens, audits and other requirements that adversely impact our reimbursement and increase our costs of providing services and products. In addition to this increasing pressure to reduce costs, the use by managed care payors of benefit managers and other intermediaries is also increasing and may adversely impact us, including for example by imposing of burdensome reimbursement or utilization management policies we must comply with and adverse changes in our participation status with managed care organizations and insurers. We have a large number of contractual arrangements with managed care organizations and other parties, which represented approximately 71% and 70% of our total net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and we expect that we will continue to enter into more of these contractual arrangements. Many of these contracts allow, usually after due notice, for payors to alter their payment policies (or newly enforced policies that were previously enacted). We could be materially adversely affected by adverse payment policy practices. Also, the Reform Package significantly reduces the government’s payment rates to Medicare Advantage plans. Other provisions impose minimum medical-loss ratios, state and federal premium review procedures and benefit requirements on insurers. Mandatory sequestration and its associated price reductions will accelerate the risk of further pricing pressure on managed care payors and on us. These public policy changes have unpredictable effects on the insurance industry on which we rely. There can be no assurance that we will retain or obtain Medicare Advantage or other such managed care contracts or that such plans will not attempt to further reduce the rates they pay to providers. In addition, if we are unable to successfully reduce our costs, we may be unable to continue to provide services directly to patients of certain payors or through these contractual arrangements. This would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity. The segment of the healthcare market in which we operate is highly competitive. In each of our service lines, there are a number of national providers and numerous regional and local providers. Other types of healthcare providers, including individual hospitals and hospital systems, home health agencies and health maintenance organizations, have entered and may continue to enter the market to compete with our various service lines. With access to significantly greater financial and market resources than what is available to us, some of these competitors may be better positioned to compete in the market. This may increase pricing pressure and limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity. Non-Compliance With Laws and Regulations Applicable to Our Business and Future Changes in or Interpretations of Those Laws and Regulations Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Us. We are subject to many stringent and frequently changing laws and regulations, and interpretations thereof, at both the federal and state levels, requiring compliance with burdensome and complex billing and payment, substantiation and record-keeping requirements. Examples of such documentation requirements are contained in the DME MAC supplier manuals which provide that clinical information from the “patient’s medical record” is required to justify the medical necessity for the provision of DME. DME MAC medical directors, CMS staff and government auditors have taken the position, among other things, that the “patient’s medical record” refers not to documentation maintained by the DME supplier but instead to documentation maintained by the patient’s physician, healthcare facility, or other clinician, and that clinical information created by the DME supplier’s personnel and confirmed by the patient’s physician is not sufficient to establish medical necessity. It may be difficult, and sometimes impossible, for us to obtain such documentation from other healthcare providers. Also, auditors’ interpretations of these policies are inconsistent and subject to individual interpretations leading to high supplier and industry error rates. In 2012, DME MACs continued to conduct significant pre-payment reviews across the DME industry and have determined a wide range of error rates. For example, error rates for CPAP claims have ranged from 30% to 80%. DME MACs have repeatedly cited medical necessity documentation insufficiencies as the primary reason for claim denials. In addition, certain states have established unique documentation requirements concerning direct patient care activities provided by DME suppliers’ staff. In the absence of such documentation, the state may request a refund or impose sanctions such as fines. If these or other challenging positions continue to be adopted by auditors, DME MACs, states, CMS or its contractors in administering the Medicare program, we have the right to contest these positions as being contrary to law. Such appeal processes may be protracted and costly, even when the initial determinations are overturned. If these interpretations of the documentation requirements are ultimately upheld, it could result in our making significant refunds and other payments to Medicare and/or Medicaid and our future revenues from Medicare and/or Medicaid would likely be reduced. We cannot currently predict the adverse impact, if any, that these new, more onerous interpretations of the Medicare and/or Medicaid documentation requirements, or revised internal operational policies to address them, might have on our relationships with referral sources, operations, cash flow and capital resources, but such impact could be material. 25 Table of Contents The federal False Claims Act imposes civil and criminal liability on individuals or entities that submit false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government. The federal government and a number of courts also have taken the position that claims presented in violation of certain other statutes, including the federal anti-kickback statute or the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (the “Stark Law”), can be considered a violation of the federal False Claims Act. Violations of the federal civil False Claims Act may result in treble damages, civil monetary penalties and exclusion from the Medicare, Medicaid and other federally funded healthcare programs. If certain criteria are satisfied, the federal civil False Claims Act allows a private individual to bring a qui tam suit on behalf of the government and, if the case is successful, to share in any recovery. Federal False Claims Act suits brought directly by the government or private individuals against healthcare providers, like us, are increasingly common and are expected to continue to increase. The Reform Package also includes certain fraud and abuse prevention measures and expands regulatory authorities concerning the types of conduct that can result in additional fines and penalties for those healthcare providers who do not comply with applicable laws and regulations. In July 2012, CMS opened its Program Integrity Command Center which is designed to build and improve sophisticated predictive analytics that identify and combat fraud. Although we cannot quantify at this time what, if any, impact such processes might have on our relationships with referral sources, operations, cash flow and capital resources, such impact could be material. Financial relationships between us and physicians and other referral sources are also subject to strict limitations under laws such as the Stark Law and anti-kickback laws. In addition, strict licensure, accreditation, safety and marketing requirements apply to the provision of services, pharmaceuticals and medical equipment. Violations of these laws and regulations could subject us to civil and criminal enforcement actions; licensure revocation, suspension or non-renewal; severe fines; facility shutdowns; repayment of amounts received from third party payors and possible exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. We cannot assure you that we are in compliance with all applicable existing laws and regulations or that we will be able to comply with any new laws or regulations that may be enacted in the future. In addition, from time to time, we may be the subject of investigations or audits or be a party to qui tam or other False Claims Act litigation which alleges violations of law. If any of those matters were successfully asserted against us, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources, liquidity or prospects. Changes in public policy, healthcare law, new interpretations of existing laws, or changes in payment methodology may have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity. Expanded Government Auditing and Oversight of Medicare and Medicaid Suppliers and More Stringent Interpretations by Those Auditors of Regulations and Rules Concerning Billing for Our Services and Products Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Us. Current law, including the recent Reform Package and an executive order signed by the President, provides for a significant expansion of the government’s auditing and oversight of suppliers who care for patients covered by various government healthcare programs. Examples of this expansion include audit programs being implemented by the DME MACs, the Zone Program Integrity Contractors (“ZPICs”), the Recovery Audit Contractors (“RACs”) and the Comprehensive Error Rate Testing contractors (“CERTs”) operating under the direction of CMS. We work cooperatively with these auditors and have long maintained a process for centrally tracking and managing our responses to their audit requests. However, unlike other government programs that are subject to a formal rulemaking process, there are only limited publicly-available guidelines and methodologies for determining errors or for providing clear and timely communications to DMEPOS suppliers in connection with these new types of audits. As a result, there is significant lack of clarity regarding the authority of the auditors, their expectations for document production requested during audits and the methodology for determining errors and calculating error rates. Along with other healthcare providers and suppliers, throughout 2011 and 2012, we have been subject to a significant increase in the number of audits conducted under these new programs. Many of these audits have ascribed error rates to our audited locations that are significantly higher than we, and others in the industry, have experienced in the past. In some cases, these high error rates appear to be based on the auditors’ incomplete or erroneous review of our submitted documentation, our inability to retrieve physician or hospital documentation from their records, the auditors’ enforcement of requirements for documentation for patients begun on service during a time period when lesser levels of documentation were accepted practice, or unclear scoring methodologies used by the auditors, among other factors. In other instances, high error rates have resulted from the auditors’ use of more stringent interpretations of the types of medical necessity documentation required for CMS to pay for the services we provide. We have appealed the results of certain of these audits and made changes to our operating policies and procedures, but cannot predict the ultimate impact that the government’s expanded and more stringent auditing, or our policies, may have on our business, financial conditions or results of operations. 26 Table of Contents We have been informed by these auditors that other healthcare providers and all suppliers of certain DMEPOS product categories are expected to experience further increased scrutiny from these audit programs. When a government auditor ascribes a high error rate to one or more of our locations, it generally results in a protracted pre-payment claims review, payment delays, refunds and other payments to the government and/or our need to request more documentation from referral sources than has historically been required. It may also result in additional audit activity in other locations of ours in that state or DME MAC jurisdiction. Our error rate, aggregated with other DMEPOS suppliers in the industry, is then reported to Medicare contractors and Congress. According to the CERT contractors utilizing the more stringent interpretations of the medical necessity documentation requirements, the DMEPOS industry error rate in 2009 was 51.9%, was over 70% in 2010, was 61% in 2011, and was 66% in 2012. Further, DME MACs have continued to conduct extensive pre-payment reviews across the DME industry and, for example, have found that error rates for CPAP claims have ranged from 30% to 80%. We cannot currently predict the adverse impact, if any, that these new audits, methodologies and interpretations might have on our operations, cash flow and capital resources, but such adverse impact could be material. See “Risks Relating to Our Business—Non-Compliance with Laws and Regulations Applicable to Our Business and Future Changes in or Interpretations of These Laws and Regulations Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Us” for additional information. Our Business and Financial Performance May Be Adversely Affected By Our Inability to Effectively Execute and Implement Cost Savings and Reorganization Initiatives. We launched a substantial multi-year cost reduction plan in late 2007 across a number of identified initiatives realizing approximately $195.2 million in annualized pre-tax savings through December 31, 2012. As of December 31, 2012 we have approximately $8.0 million of projected costs savings and synergies remaining. Because of the ongoing reimbursement pressures on our industry, we plan to implement additional changes in our operating model to further reduce our costs. Projected cost savings associated with our future initiatives are subject to a variety of risks, including: • the contemplated costs to effect these initiatives may exceed estimates; • the initiatives we are contemplating may require consultation with various customers, employees or regulators, and such consultations may influence the timing, costs and extent of expected savings; • the loss of skilled employees in connection with the initiatives; and • the projected savings contemplated under these programs may fall short of targets. While we expect to continue to implement and develop cost savings initiatives, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so successfully or that we will realize all of the projected benefits. If we are unable to realize the anticipated cost savings from our initiatives, our business may be adversely affected. Moreover, our implementation of cost savings initiatives may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, including but not limited to the loss of revenue, increases in accounts receivable and reserves and/or write off of accounts receivable. Also, in response to changing business conditions from time to time we may discontinue or significantly adjust our cost savings initiatives which could affect our ability to achieve future cost savings. We continue to seek opportunities to streamline our organizational structure and operations. We have initiated certain steps designed to further separate our two reporting units to enable them to function more autonomously and achieve certain operating efficiencies. We expect these efforts to continue throughout 2013. If we fail to implement our reorganization plans, at the cost or within the time periods expected, we may not be able to achieve the expected results. In addition, we may incur substantial costs in connection with our reorganization plans. Our Failure to Successfully Design, Modify and Implement Computer and Other Process Changes to Maximize Productivity and Ensure Compliance Could Ultimately Have a Significant Negative Impact on Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition. We have identified a number of areas throughout our operations where we intend to modify the current processes or systems in order to attain a higher level of productivity or ensure compliance. The ultimate cost savings expected from the successful design and implementation of such initiatives will be necessary to help offset the impact of Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement reductions and continued downward pressure on pricing. Additionally, Medicare and Medicaid often change their documentation requirements. The standards and rules for healthcare transactions, code sets and unique identifiers also continue to evolve, such as ICD 10 and HIPAA 5010 and other data security requirements. Moreover, government programs and/or commercial payors may have difficulties administering new standards and rules for healthcare transactions and this may adversely affect timelines of payment or payment error rates. The DMEPOS competitive bidding program also imposes new reporting requirements on contracted providers. From time to time, our outsourced contractor for certain information systems functions, Dell Services, makes operational, leadership or other changes that could impact our 27 Table of Contents plans and cost-savings goals. Our failure to successfully design and implement system or process modifications could have a significant impact on our operations and financial condition. The implementation of many of the new standards and rules will require us to make substantial investments. Further, the implementation of these system or process changes could have a disruptive effect on related transaction processing and operations. If our implementation efforts related to systems development are unsuccessful, we may need to write off amounts that we have capitalized related to systems development projects. Additionally, if systems development implementations do not occur, we may need to incur additional costs to support our existing systems. Our Failure to Maintain Controls and Processes Over Billing and Collections or the Deterioration of the Financial Condition of Our Payors or Disputes With Third Parties Could Have a Significant Negative Impact on Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition. The collection of accounts receivable is one of our most significant challenges and requires constant focus and involvement by management and ongoing enhancements to information systems and billing center operating procedures. There can be no assurance that we will be able to improve upon or maintain our current levels of collectability and days sales outstanding in future periods. Further, some of our payors and/or patients may experience financial difficulties, or may otherwise not pay accounts receivable when due, resulting in increased write-offs. If we are unable to properly bill and collect our accounts receivable, our results will be adversely affected. In addition, from time to time we are involved in disputes with various parties, including our payors and their intermediaries regarding their performance of various contractual or regulatory obligations. These disputes sometimes lead to legal and other proceedings and cause us to incur costs or experience delays in collections, increases in our accounts receivable or loss of revenue. In addition, in the event such disputes are not resolved in our favor or cause us to terminate our relationships such parties, there may be an adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Our Outsourcing, Offshoring and Onshoring Activities Subject Us to Risks That Could Have a Significant Negative Impact on Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition. Beginning in 2009, we outsourced certain billing, collections and other administrative and clerical services to Intelenet and certain information systems functions to Perot Systems Corporation (now Dell Services), both of which perform many of these services outside of the United States. Operations in other parts of the world involve certain regional geopolitical risks that are different than operating in the United States, including the possibility of civil unrest, terrorism and substantial regulation by the individual governments. In addition, federal and state regulators have expressed concerns regarding the impact of offshoring on American business in general, including, for example, job loss, security and privacy concerns. During 2010, we experienced negative reactions from federal and state regulators, payors, patients and referral sources as a result of the actual or perceived concerns caused by the outsourcing of portions of our business operations related to certain billing, collections and other administrative and clerical services and we experienced increases in accounts receivable, reserves, write-offs of accounts receivable and loss of revenues. Accordingly, we determined to return certain of these outsourced functions to our personnel in the United States. This transition resulted in various one-time costs and operational inefficiencies that impacted our results in 2011 and 2012. Our Failure to Maintain Required Licenses Could Impact Our Operations. We are required to maintain a significant number of state and/or federal licenses for our operations and facilities. Certain employees—primarily those with clinical expertise in pharmacy, nursing, respiratory therapy and nutrition—are required to maintain licenses in the states in which they practice. We manage the facility licensing function centrally. In addition, individual clinical employees are responsible for obtaining, maintaining and renewing their professional licenses and we also have processes in place designed to notify branch or pharmacy managers of renewal dates for the clinical employees under their supervision. State and federal licensing requirements are complex and often open to subjective interpretation by various regulatory agencies. Accurate licensure is also a critical threshold issue for the Medicare competitive bidding program. From time to time, we may also become subject to new or different licensing requirements due to legislative or regulatory requirements developments or changes in our business, and such developments may cause us to make further changes in our business, the results of which may be material. Although we believe we have appropriate systems in place to monitor licensure, violations of licensing requirements may occur and our failure to acquire or maintain appropriate licensure for our operations, facilities and clinicians could result in interruptions in our operations, refunds to state and/or federal payors, sanctions or fines or the inability to serve Medicare beneficiaries in competitive bidding markets which could have an adverse material impact on our business, financial condition, results of operation, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity. 28 Table of Contents Our Failure to Maintain Accreditation Could Impact Our Operations. Accreditation is required by most of our managed care payors and became a mandatory requirement for all Medicare DMEPOS providers effective October 1, 2009. In June 2010, we completed a nationwide independent triennial accreditation renewal process conducted by The Joint Commission, and the Commission renewed our accreditation for another three years. The Company will undergo the next triennial survey cycle in 2013. More recently, The Joint Commission extended that accreditation to the former Praxair Healthcare Services locations we acquired in March 2011. The Joint Commission accreditation encompasses our full complement of services including home health, home medical equipment, clinical respiratory, ambulatory infusion services, pharmacy dispensing, and clinical consultant pharmacist services. We have more than 20 years of continuous accreditation by The Joint Commission—longer than any other homecare provider. If we or any of our branches lose accreditation, or if any of our new branches are unable to become accredited, our failure to maintain accreditation or become accredited could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity. Political and Economic Conditions and the Recent Financial Turmoil in the United States and Global Capital and Credit Markets As Well As Significant Global or Regional Developments Such As Economic and Political Events, International Conflicts, Natural Disasters That are Out of Our Control and the Ongoing Number of the Uninsured Could Adversely Affect Our Revenue and Results of Operations and Overall Financial Growth and Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Us. Our business can be affected by a number of factors that are beyond our control such as general geopolitical, economic and business conditions, conditions in the financial services markets, and general political and economic developments. For example, federal deficit spending levels, the costs of military and security activities, government expenditures to support financial institutions or the U.S. credit markets in light of historical significant declines and volatility in the financial markets, or prolonged relief efforts in response to a natural disaster could increase pressure to reduce government expenditures for other purposes, including government-funded programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Reductions in reimbursement from Medicare and Medicaid programs could result if there is a significant change in government spending priorities as a result. Any such reimbursement reductions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity. The Budget Control Act of 2011 authorized increases in the United State’s debt limit of at least $2.1 trillion, established caps on funding appropriations estimated to reduce federal spending by $917 billion over the next ten years, and created the Joint Committee, a bipartisan committee consisting of twelve Members of Congress instructed to develop legislation to reduce the federal deficit by at least another $1.5 trillion over the ten-year period of fiscal years 2012—2021. The Joint Committee was not limited in what it could propose to reduce the federal deficit. If the proposal had been issued by November 23, 2011, it would have been subject to special, expedited procedures in Congress. Because Congress and the President failed to enact legislation reducing the deficit by at least $1.2 trillion over the ten-year period of fiscal years 2012 – 2021 by the January 15, 2012 deadline, automatic spending reductions in fiscal years 2013 – 2021 through sequestration, the required cancellation of budgetary resources, have been triggered. Under sequestration, certain federal programs are protected, including Medicaid. However, sequestration would cause payments to Medicare providers and suppliers to be reduced by an amount not to exceed 2%. Under the Budget Control Act of 2011, the reduction in payments to Medicare providers and suppliers was to begin on January 2, 2013. However, on January 1, 2013, Congress passed the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which the President signed into law on January 2, 2013. Among other provisions, this law delayed implementation of the sequestration reduction in payments to Medicare providers and suppliers until March 1, 2013. Because Congress and the Administration did not reach agreement on how to stave off the sequestration, it was effected on March 1. The law calls for the Medicare cuts to take effect on April 1, 2013. It is unclear how long the sequestration reductions will be in effect. Any further reductions in provider and supplier reimbursement rates under federal healthcare programs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Turmoil in the financial markets, including in the capital and credit markets, the ongoing economic slowdown and the uncertainty over its breadth, depth and duration may continue to put pressure on the global economy and could have a negative effect on our business. Further, historical worldwide financial and credit turmoil has reduced the availability of liquidity and credit to fund the continuation and expansion of business operations worldwide. The shortage of liquidity and credit combined with substantial losses in worldwide equity markets could extend the economic recession in the United States or worldwide. As widely reported, financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have experienced extreme disruption, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Governments have taken unprecedented actions intended to address extreme market conditions that include severely restricted credit and declines in real estate values. There can be no assurance that the deterioration in financial markets will not impair our ability to obtain financing in the future, including, but not limited to, our ability to draw on funds under our ABL Facility and our ability to incur additional indebtedness. If conditions in the global economy, U.S. economy or other key vertical or geographic markets remain uncertain or weaken further, we could experience material adverse impacts on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity. 29 Table of Contents Our Strategic Growth Plan, Which May Involve Acquisition of Other Companies, May Not Succeed. Our strategic growth plan may involve acquisition of other companies, such as our 2007 acquisition of Coram and our March 2011 acquisition of the assets of Praxair Healthcare Services’ home healthcare services division in the United States. Such acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: • difficulties related to combining previously separate businesses into a single unit, including patient transitions, product and service offerings, distribution and operational capabilities and business cultures; • availability of financing to the extent needed to fund acquisitions; • customer loss and other general business disruption; • managing the integration process while completing other independent acquisitions or dispositions; • diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day operations; • assumption of liabilities of an acquired business, including unforeseen or contingent liabilities or liabilities in excess of the amounts estimated; • failure to realize anticipated benefits and synergies, such as cost savings and revenue enhancements; • potentially substantial costs and expenses associated with acquisitions and dispositions; • failure to retain and motivate key employees; • difficulties in applying our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures to an acquired business; • obtaining necessary regulatory licenses and payor-specific approvals, which may impact the timing of when we are able to bill and collect for services rendered; • our ability to transition patients in a timely manner may impact our ability to collect amounts for services rendered; • our estimates for revenue accruals during the integration of acquisitions may require adjustments in future periods as the transition of patient information is finalized; and • delays in obtaining new government and commercial payor identification numbers for acquired branches, resulting in a slow down and /or loss of associated revenue. We May Not Be Able to Realize Anticipated Cost Savings, Revenue Enhancements or Synergies From Our Acquisitions. We may not be able to realize the potential cost savings, synergies and revenue enhancements that we anticipate from our acquisitions, either in the amount or within the time frame that we expect, and the costs of achieving these benefits may be higher than, and the timing may differ from, what we expect. Our ability to realize anticipated cost savings, synergies and revenue enhancements may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: • the use of more cash or other financial resources on integration and implementation activities than we expect; • increases in other expenses unrelated to our acquisitions, which may offset the cost savings and other synergies from those transactions; • our ability to eliminate effectively duplicative back office overhead and overlapping and redundant selling, general and administrative functions; and • our ability to avoid labor disruptions in connection with any integration, particularly in connection with any headcount reduction. In addition, any estimated cost savings are only estimates and may not actually be achieved in the timeframe anticipated or at all. If we fail to realize anticipated cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements, our financial results will be adversely affected, and we may not generate the cash flow from operations that we anticipated, or that is sufficient to repay our indebtedness. 30 Table of Contents There is an Inherent Risk of Liability in the Provision of Healthcare Services; Damage to Our Reputation or Our Failure to Adequately Insure Against Losses Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Operations, Financial Condition or Prospects. There is an inherent risk of liability in the provision of healthcare services and many of our patients are gravely ill. As participants in the healthcare industry, we expect to periodically be subject to lawsuits, some of which may involve large claims and significant costs to defend. In that case, the coverage limits under our insurance programs may not be adequate to protect us. We also cannot be assured that we will be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms in the future. A successful claim in excess of our coverage could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity. Even where our insurance is adequate to cover claims against us, damage to our reputation in the event of a judgment against us could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources, liquidity or prospects. We Experience Competition From Numerous Other Home Respiratory/Home Medical Equipment and Home Infusion Therapy Service Providers, and Other Providers, and This Competition Could Adversely Affect Our Revenues and Our Business. The home respiratory/home medical equipment and home infusion therapy markets are highly competitive and include a large number of providers, some of which are national providers, but most of which are either regional or local providers, including hospital systems, physician specialists and sleep labs. We believe that the primary competitive factors are quality considerations such as responsiveness, the technical ability of the professional staff and the ability to provide comprehensive services. These markets are very fragmented. Some of our competitors may now or in the future have greater financial or marketing resources than we do. In addition, in certain markets, competitors may have more effective sales and marketing activities. Our largest national home respiratory/home medical equipment provider competitors are American HomePatient, Inc., Lincare Holdings, Inc. and Rotech Healthcare Inc. Our largest competitors in the home infusion therapy service market are Walgreens Home Care, Medco/Express Scripts and Bioscript. The rest of the homecare market in the United States consists of several medium-size competitors, as well as numerous small (under $3.5 million in annual revenues) local operations. There are relatively few barriers to entry in local home healthcare markets. Hospitals and health systems are routinely looking to provide coverage and better control of post acute healthcare services, including homecare services of the types we provide. These trends may continue as new payment models evolve, including bundled payment models, shared savings programs, value based purchasing and other payment systems. For example, the Reform Package introduced various new payment and delivery system models, including Accountable Care Organizations (“ACOs”). ACOs can share in savings, assuming certain quality metrics are met or exceeded. The shared savings feature in ACOs causes them to reduce the amount of services they refer to us. ACOs may be formed by a variety of providers and/or suppliers, including hospitals and health systems, as well as home respiratory, home medical equipment and home infusion therapy service providers. Although participation in an ACO is voluntary, participation by our competitors in an ACO in certain markets may force us to participate as well or face a loss of business from ACO participants who are unwilling to refer to non-ACO participants. Even when we do participate, we may lose business if we do not meet the quality metrics that ACOs must earn to share in any savings they achieve. Moreover, commensurate with the formation of an ACO, physicians and/or hospitals may decide to provide home healthcare services through a newly developed capacity owned and/or controlled by themselves in a vertically integrated model. Similar programs may be adopted by other governmental, state and commercial payors, and we cannot predict the impact, if any, of such new models on our business. In addition, some managed care payors are developing their own pharmacy benefit managers (“PBMs”) or are expanding their contractual relationships with PBMs, and those PBMs then expand their scope of services into new areas such as specialty infusion and compete with us. We cannot assure you that these and other industry changes and the competitive nature of the homecare environment will not adversely affect our revenues and our business. Our Business Operations are Labor Intensive. Difficulty Hiring Enough Additional Management and Other Employees, Increasing Costs of Compensation or Employee Benefits, and the Potential Impact of Unionization and Organizing Activities Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Costs and Results of Operations. The success of our business depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified management and other employees. One of our largest costs is in the payment of salaries and benefits to our approximately 13,700 employees. We face significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees, which has caused increased salary and wage rates among certain employee groups. If we are unable to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, or if the costs of compensation or employee benefits increase substantially, our ability to deliver services effectively could suffer and our profitability would likely be adversely affected. The Reform Package may materially increase our cost of providing health benefits to our employees and their dependents. In addition, union organizing activities have occurred in the past and may occur in the future, and the adverse impact of unionization and organizing activities on our costs and operating results could be substantial. 31 Table of Contents We are Highly Dependent Upon Senior Management; Our Failure to Attract and Retain Key Members of Senior Management Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Us. We are highly dependent on the performance and continued efforts of our senior management team. Our future success is dependent on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified executive officers and senior management. Any inability to manage our operations effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity. Our Reliance on Relatively Few Suppliers for the Majority of Our Patient Service Equipment, Pharmaceuticals and Supplies and New Excise Taxes Which Are To Be Imposed on Certain Manufacturers of Such Items Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to Operate. We currently rely on a relatively small number of suppliers to provide us with the majority of our patient service equipment, pharmaceuticals and supplies. Many pharmaceuticals we procure have supply limitations and are subject to supply disruptions. Our inability to procure certain pharmaceuticals including maintaining and renewing certain agreements and access arrangements could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. We often use pharmaceuticals and other suppliers selectively for quality and cost reasons. If we select against a certain pharmaceutical manufacturer or supplier we may still be dependent on them for some products. However we face a risk that they would terminate or raise prices where we are dependent on them. Significant price increases, or disruptions in the ability to obtain such equipment, pharmaceuticals and supplies from existing suppliers, may force us to use alternative suppliers. Additionally, the Reform Package calls for significant new excise taxes to be imposed on manufacturers of certain medical equipment and pharmaceuticals — taxes which they could attempt to pass on to customers such as us. Such manufacturers may be forced to make other changes to their products or manufacturing processes that are unacceptable to us, resulting in our desire to change suppliers. Any change in suppliers we use could cause delays in the delivery of such products and possible losses in revenue, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, alternative suppliers may not be available, or may not provide their products and services at similar or favorable prices. If we cannot obtain the patient service equipment, pharmaceuticals and supplies we currently use, or alternatives at similar or favorable prices, our ability to provide such products may be severely impacted, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity. Our Failure to Establish and Maintain Relationships With Hospital and Physician Referral Sources May Cause Our Revenue to Decline. Our success is significantly dependent on referrals from hospital and physician sources. If we are unable to successfully establish new referral sources and maintain strong relationships with our current referral sources, or if efforts to increase the skill level and effectiveness of our sales force fail, our revenues may decline. Changes in Medical Equipment Technology and Development of New Treatments May Cause Our Current Equipment or Services to Become Obsolete. We evaluate changes in home medical equipment technology and treatments on an ongoing basis for purposes of determining the feasibility of replacing or supplementing items currently included in the patient service equipment inventory and services that we offer our customers. The selection of medical equipment and services we offer is formulated on the basis of a variety of factors, including overall quality, functional reliability, availability of supply, payor reimbursement policies, product features, labor costs associated with the technology, acquisition, repair and ownership costs and overall patient and referral source demand, as well as patient therapeutic and lifestyle benefits. Manufacturers continue to invest in research and development to introduce new products to the marketplace. It is possible that major changes in available technology, payor benefit or coverage policies related to those changes, or the preferences of patients and referral sources may cause our current product offerings to become less competitive or obsolete, and it will be necessary for us to adapt to those changes. Unanticipated changes could cause us to incur increased capital expenditures and accelerated equipment write-offs, and could force us to alter our sales, operations and marketing strategies. Our Operations Involve the Transport of Compressed and Liquid Oxygen, Which Carries an Inherent Risk of Rupture or Other Accidents With the Potential to Cause Substantial Loss. Our operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the transportation of medical gas products and compressed and liquid oxygen, including ruptures, leaks and fires. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and may result in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. If a significant accident or event occurs, it could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. Additionally, corrective action plans, fines or other sanctions may be levied by government regulators who oversee transportation of hazardous materials such as compressed or liquid oxygen. 32 Table of Contents Our Medical Gas Facilities and Operations are Subject to Extensive Regulation by Federal and State Authorities and There Can Be No Assurance That Our Medical Gas Facilities Will Maintain Compliance With Such Regulations. We have a number of medical gas facilities in several states subject to federal and state regulatory requirements. Our medical gas facilities and operations are subject to extensive regulation by the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and other federal and state authorities. The FDA regulates medical gases, including medical oxygen, pursuant to its authority under the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (“FFDCA”). Among other requirements, the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practice (“cGMP”) regulations impose certain quality control, documentation and recordkeeping requirements on the receipt, processing and distribution of medical gas. Further, in each state in which we do business, our medical gas facilities are subject to regulation under state health and safety laws, which vary from state to state. The FDA and state authorities conduct periodic, unannounced inspections at medical gas facilities to assess compliance with the cGMP and other regulations, and we expend significant time, money and resources in an effort to achieve substantial compliance with the cGMP regulations and other federal and state law requirements at each of our medical gas facilities. We also comply with the FDA’s requirement for medical gas providers to register their sites with the agency. There can be no assurance, however, that these efforts will be successful and that our medical gas facilities will maintain compliance with federal and state law regulations. Our failure to maintain regulatory compliance at our medical gas facilities could result in enforcement action, including warning letters, fines, product recalls or seizures, temporary or permanent injunctions, or suspensions in operations at one or more locations, and civil or criminal penalties which would materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity. We have Identified a Material Weakness in Our Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting. If We Do Not Maintain Effective Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting, We Could Fail to Accurately Report Our Financial Results. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is defined by the standards issued by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board as a deficiency or a combination of deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting such that there is reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. We did not effectively design and perform control activities to prevent or detect material misstatements that might exist in our presentation of cash receipts from the sale of patient service equipment on the consolidated statement of cash flows. In light of this material weakness in internal control over financial reporting, we also concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2012. Subsequent to December 31, 2012, we have taken steps to remediate the material weakness described above. While we believe these steps have improved the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and have remediated the material weakness, if our remediation efforts are insufficient to address the material weakness, or if additional material weaknesses in our internal controls are discovered in the future, they may adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information timely and accurately and, as a result, our financial statements may contain material misstatements or omissions. We have completed a number of acquisitions in the past several years, and may continue to pursue growth through strategic acquisitions. Among the risks associated with acquisitions are the risks of control deficiencies that result from the integration of the acquired business. It is possible that other control deficiencies could be identified by our management or by our independent auditing firm in the future or may occur without being identified. Such a failure could result in regulatory scrutiny, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial condition, lead to a default under our indebtedness, materially affect the market price and trading liquidity of the Notes, and otherwise materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. We May Be Required to Take Significant Write Downs in Connection with Impairment of our Goodwill, Intangible or Other Long-lived Assets. Goodwill, intangible and other long-lived assets comprise a significant portion of our total assets. Intangible assets include trade names, capitated relationships, payor relationships, leasehold interest, customer lists and accreditations with commissions. An impairment review of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets is conducted at least once a year in connection with the annual audit and if events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. Intangible assets with a finite life and other long-lived assets are tested for recoverability whenever changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be fully recoverable. In connection with the impairment testing in the year ended December 31, 2011 and in the year ended December 31, 2012, we recorded non-cash impairment charges totaling $1,007.9 million, of which $657.9 million related to the year ended December 31, 2011 and $350.0 million related to the year ended December 31, 2012. 33 Table of Contents Non-cash impairment charge incurred in the year ended December 31, 2012 consisted of the following components: (i) Trade name impairment of $350.0 million, $270.0 million of which relates to the home respiratory therapy/home medical equipment reporting unit and $80.0 million is allocated to the home infusion therapy reporting unit. Non-cash impairment charges of $657.9 million incurred in the year ended December 31, 2011 are as follows: (i) Goodwill impairment of $509.9 million; (ii) Trade name impairment of $60.0 million ($56.4 million of which relates to the home respiratory therapy/home medical equipment reporting unit and $3.6 million of which relates to the home infusion therapy reporting unit); (iii) Capitated relationships intangible asset impairment of $30.4 million; (iv) Patient service equipment impairment of $45.5 million; and (v) Property, equipment and improvements impairment of $12.1 million. Depending on the future business performance of our reporting units and other events, we may be required to recognize increased levels of future intangible amortization, or incur further charges to recognize the impairment of our assets. Such charges may be significant. Affiliates of the Sponsor Own Substantially All of the Equity Interests in Us and May Have Conflicts of Interest With Us or the Holders of the Notes in the Future. Investment funds affiliated with the Sponsor collectively own a substantial majority of our capital stock, and the Sponsor designees hold a majority of the seats on our board of directors. As a result, affiliates of the Sponsor have control over our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction and have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of stockholders regardless of whether holders of our Notes believe that any such transactions are in their own best interests. For example, affiliates of the Sponsor could collectively cause us to make acquisitions that increase the amount of our indebtedness or to sell assets, or could cause us to issue additional capital stock or declare dividends. So long as investment funds affiliated with the Sponsor continue to indirectly own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock, affiliates of the Sponsor will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. The indenture governing the Notes and the credit agreement governing our ABL Facility permit us to pay advisory and other fees, dividends and make other restricted payments to the Sponsor under certain circumstances and the Sponsor or its affiliates may have an interest in our doing so. In addition, the Sponsor has no obligation to provide us with any additional debt or equity financing. Additionally, the Sponsor is in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us or that supply us with goods and services. For example, until recently affiliates of the Sponsor controlled Intelenet, an Indian company with which we contracted in 2009 to assist us with the outsourcing of certain revenue management functions. In July 2011, an affiliate of the Sponsor, along with other shareholders of Intelenet, sold Intelenet to Serco Group PLC, an international services company. The affiliate of the Sponsor may receive additional payments based on Intelenet’s performance through 2013. The Sponsor may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. The holders of the Notes should consider that the interests of the Sponsor and other members of the Investor Group may differ from their interests in material respects. It is Becoming more Difficult to Retain Certain Hospital-Based Referral Revenue. For over a decade, we implemented a contractual business model with a number of hospitals which facilitates continuity of care and quality for patients who are being discharged from those hospitals to the homecare setting. We discontinued most of these arrangements in 2009. In these cases, we attempt to continue working closely with the hospitals to accept discharges for their patients who require our services. However, the dissolution of a contractual relationship may result in the decision by hospitals to refer patients to our competitors in lieu of or in addition to us. In addition, some hospitals are expanding the scope and geographic coverage of their existing home infusion and durable medical equipment businesses, or establishing new such affiliates, with the result that they refer their discharged patients to these affiliated home healthcare businesses and reduce their referrals to other providers like us. We are not able to predict whether the discontinuance of any additional hospital arrangements or the increasing competition from hospitals will have a material impact on our overall operational and financial results. 34 Table of Contents Our Payor Contracts are Subject to Renegotiation or Termination Which Could Result in a Decrease in Our Revenue and Profits. From time to time, our payor contracts are amended (sometimes by unilateral action by payors regarding payment policy), renegotiated, subjected to a bidding process with our competitors, or terminated altogether. Sometimes in the renegotiation process, certain lines of business may not be renewed or a payor may enlarge its provider network or otherwise adversely change the way it conducts its business with us. In other cases, a payor may reduce its provider network in exchange for lower payment rates. Our revenue from a payor may also be adversely affected if the payor alters its utilization management expectations and/or administrative procedures for payments and audits, changes its order of preference among the providers to which it refers business or imposes a third party administrator, network manager or other intermediary. Any reduction in our projected home respiratory therapy/home medical equipment reporting unit revenues as a result of these or other factors could lead to a further impairment of the value of our intangible assets which would result in a further decrease in these assets on our balance sheet. We cannot assure you that we will not have another such impairment charge or that our payor contracts will not be terminated or altered in ways that are unfavorable to us as a result of renegotiation or such administrative changes. Payors may decide to refer business to their owned provider subsidiaries such as for specialty pharmaceuticals and/or their owned pharmacy benefit managers or specialty benefit management companies. Some payors have developed or acquired an ownership interest in our competitors or administrative intermediaries. These activities could materially reduce our revenue from these payors. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness Our Substantial Indebtedness Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Prevent Us From Fulfilling Our Obligations Under our Indebtedness. We have a substantial amount of debt, which requires significant interest and principal payments. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $1,042.7 million of total debt outstanding. Subject to the limits contained in the credit agreement governing our ABL Facility, the indenture governing the Notes and our other debt instruments, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. If we do so, the risks related to our high level of debt could intensify. Specifically, our high level of debt could have important consequences, including the following: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements; • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings may be at variable rates of interest; • limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete; • placing us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors; and • increasing our cost of borrowing. Our Variable Rate Indebtedness Subjects Us to Interest Rate Risk, Which Could Cause Our Indebtedness Service Obligations to Increase Significantly. Borrowings under our ABL Facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, would correspondingly decrease. We May Be Unable to Service Our Indebtedness. The Indenture Governing the Notes and the Credit Agreement Governing Our ABL Facility Impose Significant Operating and Financial Restrictions on Our Company and Our Subsidiaries, Which May Prevent Us From Capitalizing on Business Opportunities. The indenture governing the Notes and the credit agreement governing our ABL Facility impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability, among other things, to: • incur additional indebtedness or enter into sale and leaseback obligations; 35 Table of Contents • pay certain dividends or make certain distributions on our capital stock or repurchase or redeem our capital stock; • make certain capital expenditures; • make certain loans, investments or other restricted payments; • place restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us; • engage in transactions with stockholders or affiliates; • sell certain assets or engage in mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations; • amend or otherwise alter the terms of our indebtedness; • alter the business that we conduct; • guarantee indebtedness or incur other contingent obligations; and • create liens. Our ABL Facility also includes financial covenants. Our ability to comply with these covenants is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control. As a result of these covenants and restrictions, we are limited as to how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. Our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants described above as well as other terms of our existing indebtedness and/or the terms of any future indebtedness from time to time could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in our being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. If we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our Failure to Comply With the Agreements Relating to Our Outstanding Indebtedness, Including as a Result of Events Beyond Our Control, Could Result in an Event of Default That Could Materially and Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Our Financial Condition. If there were an event of default under any of the agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default. Further, if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under our secured debt, the holders of such debt could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. In addition, any event of default or declaration of acceleration under one debt instrument could also result in an event of default under one or more of our other debt instruments. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 