Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward-Looking Statements Statements in this annual report concerning future results, performance or expectations are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based upon information available to Lincare as of the date hereof and Lincare assumes no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause Lincare’s actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements. In some cases, forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties contain terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential,” or “continue” or variations of these terms or other comparable terminology. Key factors that have an impact on Lincare’s ability to attain these estimates include potential reductions in reimbursement rates by government and third-party payors, changes in reimbursement policies, the demand for Lincare’s products and services, the availability of appropriate acquisition candidates and Lincare’s ability to successfully complete and integrate acquisitions, efficient operations of Lincare’s existing and future operating facilities, regulation and/or regulatory action affecting Lincare or its business, economic and competitive conditions, access to borrowed and/or equity capital on favorable terms and other risks described below. In developing our forward-looking statements, we have made certain assumptions relating to reimbursement rates and policies, internal growth and acquisitions and the outcome of various legal and regulatory proceedings. If the assumptions we use differ materially from what actually occurs, then actual results could vary significantly from the performance projected in the forward-looking statements. Certain Risk Factors Relating to the Company’s Business We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks. The following discussion highlights some of these risks and others are discussed elsewhere in this report. These and other risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. A MAJORITY OF OUR CUSTOMERS HAVE PRIMARY HEALTH COVERAGE UNDER MEDICARE PART B, AND RECENTLY ENACTED AND FUTURE CHANGES IN THE REIMBURSEMENT RATES OR PAYMENT METHODOLOGIES UNDER THE MEDICARE PROGRAM COULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. As a provider of oxygen, respiratory and other chronic therapy services for the home health care market, we have historically depended heavily on Medicare reimbursement as a result of the high proportion of elderly persons suffering from respiratory disease. Medicare Part B, the Supplementary Medical Insurance Program, provides coverage to eligible beneficiaries for DME, such as oxygen equipment, respiratory assistance devices, continuous positive airway pressure devices, nebulizers and associated inhalation medications, hospital beds and wheelchairs for the home setting. Approximately 64% of our customers have primary coverage under Medicare Part B. There are increasing pressures on Medicare to control health care costs and to reduce or limit reimbursement rates for home medical equipment and services. Medicare reimbursement is subject to statutory 11 Table of Contents and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, administrative and executive orders and governmental funding restrictions, all of which could materially decrease payments to us for the services and equipment we provide. Recent legislation, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“PPACA”), the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 (“MIPPA”), the Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007 (“SCHIP Extension Act”), the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (“DRA”) and the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (“MMA”), contain provisions that directly impact reimbursement for the primary respiratory and other DME products provided by Lincare. PPACA, as amended, is a comprehensive health care reform law that contains a large number of health-related provisions to take effect over the next several years, including various cost containment and program integrity changes that will apply to the home medical equipment industry. MIPPA delayed the implementation of a Medicare competitive bidding program for oxygen equipment and certain other DME items that was scheduled to begin on July 1, 2008 and instituted a 9.5% price reduction nationwide for these items as of January 1, 2009. The SCHIP Extension Act reduced Medicare reimbursement amounts for covered Part B drugs, including inhalation drugs that we provide, beginning April 1, 2008. DRA provisions negatively impacted reimbursement for oxygen equipment beginning in 2009 through the implementation of a capped rental arrangement. MMA changed the pricing formulas used to establish payment rates for inhalation drug therapies resulting in significantly reduced reimbursement beginning in 2005, established a competitive acquisition program for DME, established a Recovery Audit Contractors (“RAC”) program, which implemented a new method for recovery of Medicare overpayments by utilizing private companies operating on a contingent fee basis to identify and recoup Medicare overpayments, and implemented quality standards and accreditation requirements for DME suppliers. These legislative provisions, as currently in effect and when fully implemented, have had and will continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. See “MEDICARE REIMBURSEMENT” for a full discussion of the PPACA, MIPPA, SCHIP Extension Act, DRA and MMA provisions. A SIGNIFICANT PERCENTAGE OF OUR BUSINESS IS DERIVED FROM THE SALE AND RENTAL OF MEDICARE-COVERED OXYGEN AND DME ITEMS, AND RECENT LEGISLATIVE ACTS IMPOSE SUBSTANTIAL CHANGES IN THE MEDICARE PAYMENT METHODOLOGIES AND REDUCTIONS IN THE MEDICARE PAYMENT AMOUNTS FOR THESE ITEMS. DRA changed the reimbursement methodology for oxygen equipment from continuous monthly payment for as long as the equipment is in use by a Medicare beneficiary, which includes payment for oxygen contents, related disposable supplies and accessories and maintenance of equipment, to a capped rental arrangement whereby payment for oxygen equipment may not extend over a period of continuous use of longer than 36 months. Separate payments for oxygen contents continue to be made for the period of medical need beyond the 36th month. Additionally, payment for routine maintenance and service of the oxygen equipment may be made following each six-month period after the 36-month rental period ends. The oxygen provisions contained in DRA became effective on January 1, 2006. In the case of beneficiaries receiving oxygen equipment prior to the effective date, the 36-month period of continuous use began on January 1, 2006. Accordingly, the first month in which the new payment methodology impacted our net revenues was January 2009. We anticipate that the new oxygen payment rules will continue to negatively affect our net revenues on an ongoing basis, as each month additional customers reach the 36-month capped service period, resulting in up to two or more years without rental income from these customers. During 2011, we estimate that our sequential net revenues were reduced as a result of additional customers reaching the payment cap by approximately $20.2 million when compared to the prior year period. On July 15, 2008, Congress enacted the MIPPA legislation which reduced Medicare payment rates nationwide for certain DME items, including oxygen equipment, by 9.5% beginning in 2009. In addition to the 9.5% reduction, CMS subjected the monthly payment amount for stationary oxygen equipment to additional cuts of 2.3% in 2009, thereby reducing the monthly payment rate from $199.28 in 2008 to $175.79 in 2009. The 12 Table of Contents monthly payment amount was reduced by 1.5% in 2010, to $173.17. We estimate that this reduction negatively impacted our revenues in 2010 by approximately $8.4 million when compared to the prior year period. The stationary oxygen payment rate for 2011 was increased to $173.31 per month, an increase of 0.1%, and was not material to the Company’s operating results in 2011. The stationary oxygen payment rate for 2012 has been established by CMS at $176.06 per month, an increase of 1.6%. We estimate that this increase will favorably impact our revenues in 2012 by approximately $10.0 million. A SIGNIFICANT PERCENTAGE OF OUR BUSINESS IS DERIVED FROM THE SALE OF MEDICARE-COVERED RESPIRATORY MEDICATIONS, AND RECENT LEGISLATION AND MEDICARE POLICY REVISIONS IMPOSED SIGNIFICANT REDUCTIONS IN MEDICARE REIMBURSEMENT FOR SUCH INHALATION DRUGS. Recently enacted legislation negatively affected Medicare reimbursement amounts for covered Part B drugs, including inhalation drugs that we provide, beginning April 1, 2008 (See “MEDICARE REIMBURSEMENT”). The SCHIP Extension Act required CMS to adjust the average sales price (“ASP”) calculation methodology used to determine Medicare payment amounts for inhalation drugs by using volume-weighted ASPs based on actual sales volume rather than average sales price. CMS publishes payment rates for inhalation drugs each calendar quarter, representing the unit reimbursement rates in effect for inhalation drugs dispensed within that quarter. These payment rates may be subject to volatility as a result of the underlying ASP data used to determine the rates in effect each quarter. The quarterly ASP data published by CMS for inhalation drugs provided in 2010 and 2011 resulted in reductions in the Medicare payment rates for inhalation drugs that negatively impacted the Company’s annual net revenues by approximately $5.0 million and $14.8 million, respectively. Based upon the ASP payment rates published by CMS for the first quarter of 2012, and assuming no changes in the volume or mix of drugs that we currently dispense, we estimate that our annual net revenues will be favorably impacted by approximately $7.0 million in 2012 when compared with 2011. We can not determine whether quarterly updates in ASP pricing data will result in future reductions in payment rates for inhalation drugs, or what impact such payment reductions could have on our business in the future. Additionally, beginning in 2011, CMS is using 103% of Average Manufacturer Price (“AMP”) rather than 106% of ASP for a drug when ASP exceeds AMP by 5% for either two straight quarters or three of the past four quarters. The policy limits substitution of the price formula in a given quarter to only those drugs where ASP and AMP can be compared using the same set of national drug codes. We can not determine at this time which, if any, inhalation drugs might meet the criteria established for substitution in a particular future quarter, nor the impact on payment rates for such drugs in the event that the AMP formula is utilized. FEDERAL REGULATORY CHANGES SUBJECT THE MEDICARE REIMBURSEMENT RATES FOR OUR EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES TO ADDITIONAL REDUCTIONS AND TO POTENTIAL DISCRETIONARY ADJUSTMENT BY CMS, WHICH COULD REDUCE OUR REVENUES, NET INCOME AND CASH FLOWS. In February 2006, a final rule governing CMS’ Inherent Reasonableness, or IR, authority became effective. The IR rule establishes a process for adjusting fee schedule amounts for Medicare Part B services when existing payment amounts are determined to be either grossly excessive or deficient. The rule describes the factors that CMS or its contractors will consider in making such determinations and the procedures that will be followed in establishing new payment amounts. To date, no payment adjustments have occurred or have been proposed as a result of the IR rule. The effectiveness of the IR rule itself did not trigger payment adjustments for any items or services. Nevertheless, the IR rule puts in place a process that could eventually have a significant impact on Medicare payments for our equipment and services. We can not predict whether or when CMS will exercise its IR authority with respect to payment for our equipment and services, or the effect that such payment adjustments would have on our financial position or operating results. 13 Table of Contents FUTURE IMPLEMENTATION OF A COMPETITIVE BIDDING PROCESS UNDER MEDICARE COULD REDUCE OUR REVENUES, NET INCOME AND CASH FLOWS. CMS is required by law to establish and implement programs under which competitive acquisition areas will be established throughout the United States for purposes of awarding contracts for the furnishing of competitively priced items of DME, including oxygen equipment (See “MEDICARE REIMBURSEMENT”). The program was initially intended to be implemented in phases such that competition under the program would occur in nine of the largest MSAs in the first year, and an additional 70 of the largest MSAs in a second, subsequent round of bidding. The PPACA legislation expands the DME competitive bidding program from 79 markets under prior law to 100 markets. PPACA also adds a requirement to competitively bid all areas or use competitive bid information to set prices in all areas by 2016, effectively expanding the program to all geographic markets. For each competitive acquisition area, CMS is required to conduct a competition under which providers submit bids to supply certain covered items of DME. Successful bidders are expected to meet certain program quality standards in order to be awarded a contract and only successful bidders can supply the covered items to Medicare beneficiaries in the acquisition area (there are, however, regulations in place that allow non-contracted providers to continue to provide equipment and services to their existing customers at the new prices determined through the bidding process). The contracts are expected to be re-bid at least every three years. CMS is required to award contracts to multiple entities submitting bids in each area for an item or service, but has the authority to limit the number of contractors in a competitive acquisition area to the number it determines to be necessary to meet projected demand. CMS concluded the bidding process for the first round of MSAs in September 2007, however, in July 2008, Congress enacted the MIPPA legislation which retroactively delayed the implementation of competitive bidding and reduced Medicare prices nationwide by 9.5% beginning in 2009 for the product categories, including oxygen, that were initially included in competitive bidding. In 2009, CMS reinstituted the bidding process in the nine largest MSA markets. Reimbursement rates from the re-bidding process were publicly released by CMS on June 30, 2010. CMS announced average savings of approximately 32% off the current payment rates in effect for the product categories included in competitive bidding. As of January 1, 2011, these payment rates were in effect in the nine markets only. We were offered contracts to provide oxygen equipment in just two of the nine markets, Charlotte and Miami, and we accepted and signed those contracts. The Company’s annual Medicare revenues from the product categories in the nine markets affected by competitive bidding were approximately $48.0 million at the time the program commenced. During 2011, we completed acquisitions of companies that are contracted to provide home oxygen equipment and positive airway pressure devices in all nine competitive bidding markets. CMS is currently undertaking a second round of competitive bidding in up to 91 additional markets, with contracts expected to be effective in July 2013. The Company’s Medicare revenues from the product categories in the 91 additional markets to be included in the second round of competitive bidding were approximately $267.0 million in 2011. The PPACA legislation requires CMS to expand competitive bidding further to additional geographic markets (certain markets may be excluded at the discretion of CMS) or to use competitive bid pricing information to adjust the payment amounts otherwise in effect for areas that are not competitive acquisition areas by January 1, 2016. We will continue to monitor developments regarding the implementation of the competitive bidding program. While we can not predict the outcome of the competitive bidding program on our business when fully implemented nor the Medicare payment rates that will be in effect in future years for the items subjected to competitive bidding it is likely that the program will materially adversely effect our future financial position and operating results. 14 Table of Contents FUTURE REDUCTIONS IN REIMBURSEMENT RATES UNDER MEDICAID COULD REDUCE OUR REVENUES, NET INCOME AND CASH FLOWS. Due to budgetary shortfalls, many states are considering, or have enacted, cuts to their Medicaid programs, including funding for our equipment and services. These cuts have included, or may include, elimination or reduction of coverage for some or all of our equipment and services, amounts eligible for payment under co-insurance arrangements, or payment rates for covered items. Approximately 7% of our customers are eligible for primary Medicaid benefits, and State Medicaid programs fund approximately 12% of our payments from primary and secondary insurance benefits. Continued state budgetary pressures could lead to further reductions in funding for the reimbursement for our equipment and services which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results. FUTURE REDUCTIONS IN REIMBURSEMENT RATES FROM PRIVATE PAYORS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND OPERATING RESULTS. Payors such as private insurance companies and employers are under pressure to increase profitability and reduce costs. In response, certain payors are limiting coverage or reducing reimbursement rates for the equipment and services we provide. Approximately 28% of our customers and approximately 32% of our primary and secondary payments are derived from private payors. Continued financial pressures on these entities could lead to further reimbursement reductions for our equipment and services that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. WE DEPEND UPON REIMBURSEMENT FROM THIRD-PARTY PAYORS FOR A SIGNIFICANT MAJORITY OF OUR REVENUES, AND IF WE FAIL TO MANAGE THE COMPLEX AND LENGTHY REIMBURSEMENT PROCESS, OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS COULD SUFFER. We derive a significant majority of our revenues from reimbursement by third-party payors. We accept assignment of insurance benefits from customers and, in most instances, invoice and collect payments directly from Medicare, Medicaid and private insurance carriers, as well as from customers under co-payment provisions. Approximately 49% of our revenues are derived from Medicare, 32% from private insurance carriers, 12% from Medicaid and the balance directly from individual customers and commercial entities. Our financial condition and results of operations may be affected by the reimbursement process, which in the health care industry is complex and can involve lengthy delays between the time that services are rendered and the time that the reimbursement amounts are settled. Depending on the payor, we may be required to obtain certain payor-specific documentation from physicians and other health care providers before submitting claims for reimbursement. Certain payors have filing deadlines and they will not pay claims submitted after such time. We are also subject to extensive pre-payment and post-payment audits by governmental and private payors that could result in material refunds of monies received or denials of claims submitted for payment under such third-party payor programs and contracts. We can not ensure that we will be able to continue to effectively manage the reimbursement process and collect payments for our equipment and services promptly. WE ARE SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE FEDERAL AND STATE REGULATION, AND IF WE FAIL TO COMPLY WITH APPLICABLE REGULATIONS, WE COULD SUFFER SEVERE CRIMINAL OR CIVIL SANCTIONS OR BE REQUIRED TO MAKE SIGNIFICANT CHANGES TO OUR OPERATIONS THAT COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The federal government and all states in which we currently operate regulate various aspects of our business. In particular, our operating centers are subject to federal laws that regulate the repackaging of drugs (including oxygen) and interstate motor-carrier transportation. Our operations also are subject to state laws governing, among other things, pharmacies, nursing services, distribution of medical equipment and certain types 15 Table of Contents of home health activities. Certain of our employees are subject to state laws and regulations governing the ethics and professional practices of respiratory therapy, pharmacy and nursing. As a health care provider, we are subject to extensive government regulation, including numerous laws directed at preventing fraud and abuse and laws regulating reimbursement under various government programs. The marketing, billing, documenting and other practices of health care companies are all subject to government scrutiny. To ensure compliance with Medicare, Medicaid and other regulations, regional health insurance carriers and state agencies often conduct audits and request customer records and other documents to support our claims submitted for payment of services rendered to customers. Similarly, government agencies periodically open investigations and obtain information from health care providers pursuant to the legal process. Violations of federal and state regulations can result in severe criminal, civil and administrative penalties and sanctions, including disqualification from Medicare and other reimbursement programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Health care is an area of rapid regulatory change. Changes in the laws and regulations and new interpretations of existing laws and regulations may affect permissible activities, the relative costs associated with doing business, and reimbursement amounts paid by federal, state and other third-party payors. We can not predict the future of federal, state and local regulation or legislation, including Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, or possible changes in national health care policies. Future legislation and regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our business. WE ARE SUBJECT TO BURDENSOME AND COMPLEX BILLING AND RECORD-KEEPING REQUIREMENTS IN ORDER TO SUBSTANTIATE OUR CLAIMS FOR PAYMENT UNDER FEDERAL, STATE AND COMMERCIAL HEALTH CARE REIMBURSEMENT PROGRAMS, AND OUR FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH EXISTING REQUIREMENTS, OR CHANGES IN THOSE REQUIREMENTS OR INTERPRETATIONS THEREOF, COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. We are subject to many comprehensive and frequently changing laws and regulations, and interpretations thereof, at both the federal and state levels, requiring compliance with burdensome and complex billing and record-keeping requirements in order to substantiate our claims for payment under federal, state and commercial health care reimbursement programs. On an ongoing basis, we have implemented policies and procedures designed to meet the various documentation requirements of government payors as they have been interpreted and applied. Examples of such documentation requirements are contained in the Durable Medical Equipment Medicare Administrative Contractor (“DME MAC”) Supplier Manuals which provide that clinical information from the “patient’s medical record” is required to justify the medical necessity for the provision of DME. Auditors working on behalf of the DME MACs have recently taken the position, among other things, that the “patient’s medical record” refers not to documentation maintained by the DME supplier but instead to documentation maintained by the patient’s physician, health care facility, or other clinician, and that clinical information created by the DME supplier’s personnel and confirmed by the patient’s physician is not sufficient to establish medical necessity. Other government auditors have recently taken the same or a similar position. It may be difficult, and sometimes impossible, for us to obtain such documentation from other health care providers. If these or other burdensome positions continue to be adopted by auditors, DME MACs, other contractors or CMS in administering the Medicare program, we have the right to challenge these positions as being contrary to law. If these interpretations of the documentation requirements are ultimately upheld, however, it could result in our making significant refunds and other payments to Medicare and our future revenues from Medicare would likely be substantially reduced. We have also experienced a significant increase in pre-payment reviews of our claims by the DME MACs, which has caused substantial delays in the collection of our Medicare accounts receivable as well as related amounts due under supplemental insurance plans. We can not currently predict the adverse impact that these new, more burdensome interpretations of the Medicare documentation requirements might have on our financial position or operating results, but such impact could be material. 16 Table of Contents EXPANDED GOVERNMENT AUDITING AND OVERSIGHT OF MEDICARE AND MEDICAID SUPPLIERS AND MORE STRINGENT INTERPRETATIONS BY THOSE AUDITORS OF REGULATIONS AND RULES CONCERNING BILLING FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Current law provides for a significant expansion of the government’s auditing and oversight of suppliers who care for patients covered by various government health care programs. Examples of this expansion include audit programs being implemented by the DME MAC contractors, the Zone Program Integrity Contractors (“ZPICs”), the Recovery Audit Contractors (“RACs”) and the Comprehensive Error Rate Testing contractors (“CERTs”) operating under the direction of CMS. We work cooperatively with these auditors and have long maintained a process for centrally tracking and managing our responses to their audit requests. However, unlike other government programs that are subject to a formal rulemaking process, there are only limited publicly-available guidelines and methodologies for determining errors or for providing clear and timely communications to DME suppliers in connection with these new types of audits. As a result, there is significant lack of clarity regarding the authority of the auditors, their expectations for document production requested during audits and the methodologies for issuing claim denials, determining billing errors and calculating billing error rates. Along with other health care providers and suppliers, we have recently been subject to a significant increase in the number of pre-payment audits conducted under these new programs. Many of these audits have resulted in claim denial rates at our audited locations that are significantly higher than we, and others in the industry, have experienced in the past. In some cases, these high claim denial rates appear to be based on the auditors’ incomplete or erroneous review of our submitted documentation or unclear scoring methodologies used by the auditors. In other instances, high claim denial rates have resulted from the auditors’ use of inconsistent interpretations of the types of medical necessity documentation required for CMS to pay for the services we provide. We are appealing the results of these recent audits and making changes to our operating policies and procedures. We can not predict the adverse impact that the government’s expanded auditing activities may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations, but such impact could be material. We have been informed by these auditors that health care providers and suppliers of certain DME product categories are expected to experience further increased scrutiny from these audit programs. When a government auditor ascribes a high billing error rate to one or more of our locations, it generally results in protracted pre-payment claims review, payment delays, refunds and other payments to the government and/or our need to request more documentation from referral sources than has historically been required. It may also result in additional audit activity in other company locations in that state or DME MAC jurisdiction. We can not currently predict the adverse impact that these new audits, methodologies and interpretations might have on our operations, cash flow and capital resources, but such impact could be material. COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS UNDER THE FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE PORTABILITY AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 1996 (“HIPAA”), THE HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY FOR ECONOMIC AND CLINICAL HEALTH ACT (“HITECH ACT”) AND RELATED RULES, RELATING TO THE TRANSMISSION, SECURITY AND PRIVACY OF HEALTH INFORMATION COULD IMPOSE ADDITIONAL SIGNIFICANT COSTS ON OUR OPERATIONS. Numerous federal and state laws and regulations, including HIPAA and the HITECH Act, govern the collection, dissemination, security, use and confidentiality of patient-identifiable health information. HIPAA and the HITECH Act require us to comply with standards for the use and disclosure of health information within our company and with third parties. HIPAA and the HITECH Act also include standards for common health care electronic transactions and code sets, such as claims information, plan eligibility, payment information and the use of electronic signatures, and privacy and electronic security of individually identifiable health information. 17 Table of Contents HIPAA requires health care providers, including us, in addition to health plans and clearinghouses, to develop and maintain policies and procedures with respect to protected health information that is used or disclosed. The HITECH Act expands the notification requirement for breaches of patient-identifiable health information, restricts certain disclosures and sales of patient-identifiable health information and provides a tiered system for civil monetary penalties for HIPAA violations. If we do not comply with existing or new laws and regulations related to patient health information, we could be subject to criminal or civil sanctions. New health information standards, whether implemented pursuant to HIPAA, the HITECH Act, congressional action or otherwise, could have a significant effect on the manner in which we handle health care related data and communicate with payors, and the cost of complying with these standards could be significant. WE MAY UNDERTAKE ACQUISITIONS THAT COULD SUBJECT US TO UNANTICIPATED LIABILITIES AND THAT COULD FAIL TO ACHIEVE EXPECTED BENEFITS. Our strategy is to increase our market share through internal growth and strategic acquisitions. Consideration for the acquisitions has generally consisted of cash, unsecured non-interest bearing obligations and the assumption of certain liabilities. The implementation of an acquisition strategy entails certain risks, including inaccurate assessment of disclosed liabilities, the existence of undisclosed liabilities, regulatory compliance issues associated with the acquired business, entry into markets in which we may have limited or no experience, diversion of management’s attention and human resources from our underlying business, difficulties in integrating the operations of an acquired business or in realizing anticipated efficiencies and cost savings, failure to retain key management or operating personnel of the acquired business, and an increase in indebtedness and a limitation in the ability to access additional capital on favorable terms. The successful integration of an acquired business may be dependent on the size of the acquired business, condition of the customer billing records, and complexity of system conversions and execution of the integration plan by local management. If we do not successfully integrate the acquired business, the acquisition could fail to achieve its expected revenue contribution or there could be delays in the billing and collection of claims for services rendered to customers, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results. WE FACE INTENSE NATIONAL, REGIONAL AND LOCAL COMPETITION AND IF WE ARE UNABLE TO COMPETE SUCCESSFULLY, WE WILL LOSE REVENUES AND OUR BUSINESS WILL SUFFER. The home respiratory market is a fragmented and highly competitive industry. We compete against other national providers and, by our estimate, more than 2,000 local and regional providers. Home respiratory companies compete primarily on the basis of service rather than price since reimbursement levels are established by Medicare and Medicaid or by the individual determinations of private health plans. Our ability to compete successfully and to increase our referrals of new customers is highly dependent upon our reputation within each local health care market for providing responsive, professional and high-quality service and achieving strong customer satisfaction. Given the relatively low barriers to entry in the home respiratory market, we expect that the industry will become increasingly competitive in the future. Increased competition in the future could limit our ability to attract and retain key operating personnel and achieve continued growth in our core business. 18 Table of Contents INCREASES IN OUR COSTS COULD ERODE OUR PROFIT MARGINS AND SUBSTANTIALLY REDUCE OUR NET INCOME AND CASH FLOWS. Cost containment in the health care industry, fueled, in part, by federal and state government budgetary shortfalls, is likely to result in constant or decreasing reimbursement amounts for our equipment and services. As a result, we must control our operating cost levels, particularly labor and related costs, which account for a significant component of our operating costs and expenditures. We compete with other health care providers to attract and retain qualified or skilled personnel. We also compete with various industries for administrative and service employees. Since reimbursement rates are established by fee schedules mandated by Medicare, Medicaid and private payors, we are not able to offset the effects of general inflation in labor and related cost components, if any, through increases in prices for our equipment and services. Consequently, such cost increases could erode our profit margins and reduce our net income. IF THE COVERAGE LIMITS ON OUR INSURANCE POLICIES ARE INADEQUATE TO COVER OUR LIABILITIES OR OUR INSURANCE COSTS CONTINUE TO INCREASE, THEN OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS WOULD LIKELY DECLINE. Participants in the health care industry, including the Company, are subject to substantial claims and litigation in the ordinary course, often involving large claims and significant defense costs. As a result of the liability risks inherent in our lines of business we maintain liability insurance intended to cover such claims. Our insurance policies are subject to annual renewal. The coverage limits of our insurance policies may not be adequate, and we may not be able to obtain liability insurance in the future on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, our insurance premiums could be subject to increases in the future, which increases may be material. If the coverage limits are inadequate to cover our liabilities or our insurance costs continue to increase, then our financial condition and results of operations would likely decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 