Risk Factors – Government Regulation; Healthcare Reform.” Employees As of January 31, 2007, Apria had 11,258 employees, of which 10,657 were full-time and 601 were part-time. None of the company’s employees is currently represented by a labor union or other labor organization. Website Access to Reports Apria’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, all amendments thereto and all other reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are made available free of charge on the company’s website as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Apria’s Code of Ethical Business Conduct is also available on the company’s website. In the event Apria makes any amendment to, or grants any waiver from, a provision of the Code of Ethical Business Conduct that applies to the principal executive officer, principal financial officer or principal accounting officer that requires disclosure under applicable Securities and Exchange Commission rules, Apria will disclose such amendment or waiver and the reasons therefor on its website. Apria’s website can be found at www.apria.com. 13 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant Set forth below are the names, ages, titles with Apria and past and present positions of the persons serving as Apria’s executive officers as of February 23, 2007: Name and Age Office and Experience Lawrence M. Higby, 61 Chief Executive Officer and Director. Mr. Higby was appointed Chief Executive Officer and Director in February 2002. Mr. Higby also served as Apria’s Chief Executive Officer on an interim basis from January through May 1998. He joined Apria in November 1997 as President and Chief Operating Officer. Prior to joining Apria, Mr. Higby served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Unocal’s 76 Products Company and Group Vice President of Unocal Corporation from 1994 to 1997. From 1986 to 1994, Mr. Higby held various positions with the Times Mirror Company, including Executive Vice President, Marketing of the Los Angeles Times and Chairman of the Orange County Edition. In 1986, Mr. Higby served as President and Chief Operating Officer of America’s Pharmacy, Inc., a division of Caremark, Inc. Lawrence A. Mastrovich, 45 President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Mastrovich joined Apria as Chief Operating Officer in April 2002 and was promoted to President in August 2004. From August 2001 to April 2002, Mr. Mastrovich served as President and Chief Operating Officer of TechRx, a pharmacy technology company. From April 2001 to August 2001, Mr. Mastrovich served as Apria’s Executive Vice President, Sales. From October 1998 to April 2001, Mr. Mastrovich served as Apria’s Executive Vice President, Revenue Management. From December 1997 to October 1998, Mr. Mastrovich served as Division Vice President, Operations for Apria’s Northeast Division. Prior to that time, Mr. Mastrovich had served as a Regional Vice President for Apria and its predecessor, Homedco, since 1994 and in various other capacities from 1987 to 1994. Chris A. Karkenny, 38 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Karkenny joined Apria as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in November 2006. From January 2003 to February 2006, Mr. Karkenny served as Senior Vice President of Corporate Development and Treasury Operations of PacifiCare Health Systems, Inc., a Fortune 500 company. From August 1999 to December 2002, Mr. Karkenny served as Chief Executive Officer of NetCatalyst, a California investment banking firm. From July 1998 to August 1999, Mr. Karkenny served as a partner in Technologz, a California-based business incubator, and was a founder, board member and initial Chief Financial Officer of CardioNow, a healthcare application service provider. Prior thereto, he served as Treasurer of Quarterdeck Corporation from 1995 to March 1998. W. Jeffrey Ingram, 39 Executive Vice President, Sales. Mr. Ingram was promoted to Executive Vice President, Sales in December of 2005. From January 2005 to November 2005, Mr. Ingram served as Senior Vice President, National Accounts. From March 2003 to January 2005, Mr. Ingram served as Division Vice President, Sales for Apria’s Southeast Division. From May 2001 to February 2003, Mr. Ingram served as Region Vice President, Sales for Apria’s Midsouth Region. Prior to that time, Mr. Ingram had served in various other sales positions with Apria since January 1994. 14 Table of Contents Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Apria has identified the following important factors, among others, that could cause its actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements the company may make from time to time. If any of these risks, or others, actually occurs, Apria’s business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. Collectibility of Accounts Receivable—Apria’s failure to maintain its controls and processes over billing and collecting or the deterioration of the financial condition of its payors could have a significant negative impact on its results of operations and financial condition. The collection of accounts receivable is one of Apria’s most significant challenges and requires constant focus and involvement by management and ongoing enhancements to information systems and billing center operating procedures. Further, some of Apria’s payors and/or patients may experience financial difficulties, or may otherwise not pay accounts receivable when due, resulting in increased write-offs. There can be no assurance that Apria will be able to maintain its controls and processes over billing or its current levels of collectibility and days sales outstanding in future periods. If Apria is unable to properly bill and collect its accounts receivable, its results will be adversely affected. Operating Systems and Controls—Apria’s failure to successfully implement computer and other system modifications designed to maximize productivity could ultimately have a significant negative impact on its results of operations and financial condition. Apria’s management has identified a number of areas throughout its operations where it intends to modify the current processes or systems in order to attain a higher level of productivity. The ultimate cost savings expected from the successful design and implementation of such initiatives will be necessary to help offset the impact of Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement reductions and continued downward pressure on pricing. Apria’s failure to successfully implement its planned system modifications and other productivity improvements could have a significant impact on its operations and financial condition. Further, the implementation of these system changes could have a disruptive effect on related transaction processing and operations. Medicare/Medicaid Reimbursement Rates—Continued reductions in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates could have a material adverse effect on Apria’s results of operations and financial condition. Medicare Reimbursement Reductions. There are a number of provisions contained within recent legislation and proposed regulations that adversely affect or may adversely affect reimbursement for products and services provided by Apria. For example, in December 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, also referred to as the Medicare Modernization Act, or MMA, became law. The MMA and related rules issued by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, implemented reimbursement reductions for a number of products and services provided by Apria and established a proposed competitive bidding program for Medicare Part B. Further, the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, or DRA, was signed into law in February 2006. Once fully implemented, the DRA and related rules issued by CMS would result in reduced reimbursement rates for certain durable medical equipment, including home oxygen equipment and services provided by Apria, a reduced period for rental revenue, and potential increased costs associated with replacement of certain patient-owned equipment. In addition to these laws, certain other proposed legislative and regulatory activities may affect reimbursement policies for other items and services provided by Apria. These recently enacted reductions and pending proposed reductions in Medicare reimbursement rates could have a material adverse effect on Apria’s net revenues, net income, cash flow and capital resources. Medicaid Reimbursement Reductions. For a number of years, some states began adopting alternative pricing methodologies for certain drugs and biologicals under the Medicaid program. In a number of states, the changes reduced the level of reimbursement received by Apria without a corresponding offset or increase to compensate for the service costs incurred. In several of those states, Apria elected to stop accepting new Medicaid patient referrals for the affected drugs and biologicals. Further, some states are considering other reductions in Medicaid reimbursement as they work through their respective budget processes. Apria cannot estimate the ultimate impact of all legislated and contemplated Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement changes or provide assurance to investors that additional reimbursement reductions will not be made or will not have an adverse effect on the company’s operations and financial condition. See “Business – Government Regulation – Medicare and Medicaid Reimbursement.” 15 Table of Contents Government Regulation; Healthcare Reform—Non-compliance with laws and regulations applicable to Apria’s business and future changes in those laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on Apria. Apria is subject to stringent laws and regulations at both the federal and state levels, requiring compliance with burdensome and complex billing, substantiation and record-keeping requirements. Financial relationships between Apria and physicians and other referral sources are also subject to strict limitations. In addition, strict licensing and safety requirements apply to the provision of services, pharmaceuticals and equipment. Violations of these laws and regulations could subject Apria to severe fines, facility shutdowns and possible exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Government officials and the public will continue to debate healthcare reform. Recently, proposed initiatives in certain states (California, Massachusetts) and potential new federal or state public policy changes to cover the uninsured could ultimately also effect payment rates to providers or initiate new provider fees or taxes. Changes in public policy, healthcare law, new interpretations of existing laws, or changes in payment methodology may have a significant effect on Apria’s business and results of operations. Economic and Political Events, International Conflicts and Natural Disasters—Significant global or regional developments that are out of the company’s control could have a material adverse effect on Apria. Further reductions in reimbursement from Medicare and Medicaid programs could result if there is a significant change in government spending priorities. The costs of military and security activities or prolonged relief efforts in response to a natural disaster could increase pressure to reduce government expenditures for other purposes, including government-funded programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Such further reimbursement reductions could have a material adverse effect on Apria’s business and results of operations. Pricing Pressures—Apria believes that continued pressure to reduce healthcare costs could have a material adverse effect on the company. The current market continues to exert pressure on healthcare companies to reduce healthcare costs, resulting in reduced margins for home healthcare providers such as Apria. Larger group purchasing organizations and supplier groups exert additional pricing pressure on home healthcare providers. These include managed care organizations, which control an increasing portion of the healthcare economy. Apria has a number of contractual arrangements with managed care organizations and other parties, although no individual arrangement accounted for more than 9% of Apria’s net revenues in 2006. The segment of the healthcare market in which Apria operates is highly competitive. In each of its service lines, there are a number of national providers and numerous regional and local providers. Other types of healthcare providers, including industrial gas manufacturers, individual hospitals and hospital systems, home health agencies and health maintenance organizations have entered, and may continue to enter the market to compete with Apria’s various service lines. Some of these competitors have access to significantly greater financial and marketing resources than Apria and may be better positioned to compete in the market. This may increase pricing pressure and limit Apria’s ability to maintain or increase its market share. Acquisitions — Apria’s strategic plan may include the acquisition of other companies, which involves a number of risks. Historically, Apria’s growth has depended in part upon the acquisition of other companies. Apria’s strategic plan may or may not continue to include the acquisition of other businesses. Apria faces the risk that the returns on acquisitions will not support the expenditures or indebtedness incurred to acquire such businesses, or the capital expenditures needed to develop such businesses. Acquisitions such as these involve a number of other risks, including: • difficulties related to integrating a previously separate businesses into the company; • diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day operations; • assumption of liabilities of an acquired business, including unforeseen or contingent liabilities, or liabilities in excess of the amounts the company estimates; • failure to realize anticipated benefits, such as cost savings and revenue enhancements; • dilution of existing stockholders due to the issuance of equity securities, utilization of cash reserves, or incurrence of debt in order to fund the acquisitions; • potentially substantial transaction costs associated with acquisitions; • difficulties related to assimilating the products, personnel and systems of an acquired business, including distribution and other operational capabilities; and • difficulties in applying Apria’s internal controls to an acquired business. While Apria generally pursues acquisitions of companies that are related to its principal business, the company may also pursue acquisitions of companies that are ancillary to the company’s core business in the future which could exacerbate the risks described above. If the company cannot effectively execute its acquisition strategy, its future growth may suffer and its results of operations could be harmed. Accordingly, Apria may be unable to identify, consummate and integrate future acquisitions successfully or operate acquired businesses profitably. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 