Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward-Looking Statements Statements in this annual report concerning future results, performance or expectations are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based upon information available to Lincare as of the date hereof and Lincare assumes no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause Lincare’s actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements. In some cases, forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties contain terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential,” or “continue” or variations of these terms or other comparable terminology. Key factors that have an impact on Lincare’s ability to attain these estimates include potential reductions in reimbursement rates by government and third party payors, changes in reimbursement policies, the demand for Lincare’s products and services, the availability of appropriate acquisition candidates and Lincare’s ability to successfully complete and integrate acquisitions, efficient operations of Lincare’s existing and future operating facilities, regulation and/or regulatory action affecting Lincare or its business, economic and competitive conditions, access to borrowed and/or equity capital on favorable terms and other risks described below. In developing our forward-looking statements, we have made certain assumptions relating to reimbursement rates and policies, internal growth and acquisitions and the outcome of various legal and regulatory proceedings. If the assumptions we use differ materially from what actually occurs, then actual results could vary significantly from the performance projected in the forward-looking statements. We are under no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this report. Certain Risk Factors Relating to the Company’s Business We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks. The following discussion highlights some of these risks and others are discussed elsewhere in this report. These and other risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. A MAJORITY OF OUR CUSTOMERS HAVE PRIMARY HEALTH COVERAGE UNDER MEDICARE PART B, AND RECENTLY ENACTED AND FUTURE CHANGES IN THE REIMBURSEMENT RATES OR PAYMENT METHODOLOGIES UNDER THE MEDICARE PROGRAM COULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. As a provider of home oxygen and other respiratory therapy services for the home health care market, we have historically depended heavily on Medicare reimbursement as a result of the high proportion of elderly persons suffering from respiratory disease. Medicare Part B, the Supplementary Medical Insurance Program, provides coverage to eligible beneficiaries for DME, such as oxygen equipment, respiratory assistance devices, continuous positive airway pressure devices, nebulizers and associated inhalation medications, hospital beds and wheelchairs for the home setting. Approximately 70 percent of our customers have primary coverage under Medicare Part B. There are increasing pressures on Medicare to control health care costs and to reduce or limit reimbursement rates for home medical equipment and services. Medicare reimbursement is subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, administrative and executive orders and governmental funding restrictions, all of which could materially decrease payments to us for the services and equipment we provide. Recent legislation, including the Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007 (“SCHIP Extension Act”), the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (“DRA”) and the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (“MMA”), contain provisions that directly impact reimbursement for the primary respiratory and other DME products provided by Lincare. The SCHIP Extension Act will reduce Medicare reimbursement amounts for covered Part B drugs, including inhalation drugs that we provide, beginning April 1, 2008. DRA contains provisions that will negatively impact reimbursement for oxygen equipment beginning in 2009 and negatively impacted reimbursement for DME items subject to capped rental payments beginning in 2007. MMA significantly reduced reimbursement for inhalation drug therapies beginning in 2005, reduced payment amounts for five categories of DME, including oxygen, beginning in 2005, froze payment amounts for other covered DME items through 2007, established a competitive acquisition program for DME beginning in 2008, and implemented quality standards and accreditation requirements for DME suppliers. The SCHIP Extension Act, DRA and MMA provisions, when fully implemented, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. See “MEDICARE REIMBURSEMENT” for a full discussion of the SCHIP Extension Act, DRA and MMA provisions. 9 A SIGNIFICANT PERCENTAGE OF OUR BUSINESS IS DERIVED FROM THE SALE AND RENTAL OF MEDICARE-COVERED OXYGEN AND DME ITEMS, AND RECENT LEGISLATIVE ACTS IMPOSE SUBSTANTIAL CHANGES IN THE MEDICARE PAYMENT METHODOLOGIES AND REDUCTIONS IN THE MEDICARE PAYMENT AMOUNTS FOR THESE ITEMS. FURTHERMORE, LEGISLATIVE PROPOSALS CURRENTLY UNDER CONSIDERATION BY THE U.S. CONGRESS COULD IMPOSE EVEN DEEPER PAYMENT REDUCTIONS FOR MEDICARE-COVERED OXYGEN EQUIPMENT WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR NET REVENUES, OPERATING INCOME, CASH FLOWS AND FINANCIAL POSITION. DRA changes the reimbursement methodology for oxygen equipment from continuous monthly payment for as long as the equipment is in use by a Medicare beneficiary, which includes payment for oxygen contents and maintenance of equipment, to a capped rental arrangement whereby payment for oxygen equipment (including portable oxygen equipment) may not extend over a period of continuous use of longer than 36 months. On the first day that begins after the 36th continuous month during which payment is made for the oxygen equipment, the supplier would transfer title of the equipment to the beneficiary. Separate payments for oxygen contents would continue to be made for the period of medical need beyond the 36th month. According to the legislation, additional payments for maintenance and service of the oxygen equipment would be made for parts and labor not covered by a supplier’s or manufacturer’s warranty. The oxygen provisions contained in DRA became effective on January 1, 2006. In the case of beneficiaries receiving oxygen equipment prior to the effective date, the 36-month period of continuous use began on January 1, 2006. Accordingly, the first month in which the new payment methodology will impact our net revenues is January 2009. Throughout the second half of 2007, Congress was considering legislation that would have included further reductions in payment amounts for certain classes of oxygen equipment. The resulting legislation, the SCHIP Extension Act, was signed into law by the President of the United States on December 29, 2007, and temporarily addressed a number of Medicare program issues. However, the SCHIP Extension Act did not contain any provisions affecting Medicare reimbursement for oxygen equipment. The SCHIP Extension Act suspended a 10.1% reduction in Medicare physician payments that was scheduled for 2008 and gave physicians a 0.5% increase through June 30, 2008. The 10.1% reduction in Medicare physician payments was driven by the statutory sustainable growth rate (“SGR”) formula, which is intended to control the growth in aggregate Medicare expenditures for physician services. The 109th session of Congress previously passed similar legislation to avert a reduction in Medicare physician payments in 2007. It is anticipated that Congress will revisit the issue of physician payment rates and other Medicare program issues in 2008 and consider whether to extend SGR relief beyond June 30, 2008. It is possible that reimbursement changes for oxygen equipment could be considered at that time. Additionally, the President’s 2008 fiscal year budget proposes a reduction in the maximum continuous oxygen equipment rental period from 36 months to 13 months. No further information on this proposal is available at this time and we cannot predict whether or not the proposal will be included in the final budget approved by Congress. Further reductions in Medicare reimbursement for oxygen equipment could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s net revenues, operating income, cash flows and financial position. On November 1, 2006, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) published rule CMS-1304-F, describing the Medicare regulations, as interpreted by CMS, required to implement the DRA oxygen provisions. The rule codified the new payment methodology and related provisions with respect to oxygen, including, but not limited to, defining the 36-month capped rental period of continuous use, transfer of title, payment for oxygen contents for beneficiary-owned oxygen equipment, payment for maintenance and servicing of oxygen equipment and procedures for replacement of beneficiary-owned equipment. The DRA oxygen provisions and related regulations represented a fundamental change in the Medicare payment system for oxygen. These provisions are complex, and are expected to result in profound changes in the provider-customer relationship for oxygen equipment and related services. The Company believes that the 36-month rental cap will have a material adverse impact on the Company’s net revenues, operating income, cash flows and financial position when it takes effect in 2009 and beyond. Included in rule CMS-1304-F are changes to the Medicare payment rates for oxygen and oxygen equipment that took effect on January 1, 2007. CMS is exercising its authority under the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (“BBA”) to establish separate classes and monthly payment rates for oxygen. The rule establishes a new class and monthly payment amount for oxygen-generating portable equipment (“OGPE”), which includes oxygen transfilling equipment and portable oxygen concentrators. An OGPE add-on payment, applicable during the 36-month rental period, will be made for these systems in the amount of $51.63. Payments for the new OGPE add-on began on January 1, 2007 for new and existing oxygen users. CMS also increased the monthly payment amounts for portable oxygen contents for beneficiary-owned liquid or gaseous oxygen equipment from approximately $20.77 to $77.45. The increase in payments for portable oxygen contents became effective on January 1, 2007 for new and existing oxygen users. The BBA requires these changes to be budget neutral, and, accordingly, CMS reduced 10 other Medicare oxygen payment rates beginning in 2007. As a result, the monthly payment amount for stationary oxygen equipment is expected to change each year in order to offset the impact from changes in beneficiary utilization of OGPE equipment. For 2008, the payment rate for stationary oxygen equipment will increase from $198.40 to $199.28, which is expected to increase our net revenues and operating income by approximately $3.0 million in 2008. CMS previously published projected rates for 2008, 2009 and 2010 of $198.40, $193.21 and $189.39, respectively. CMS will revise payment rates in future years under the methodology specified in the rule based on actual OGPE use and updated data on the distribution of beneficiaries using oxygen equipment. To the extent that the Company’s distribution of oxygen equipment and oxygen contents in future years differs from that of the overall Medicare market, these future payment rate revisions may have a significant effect on the overall level of reimbursement for the Company’s oxygen business. DRA also changes the reimbursement methodology for items of DME in the capped rental payment category, including but not limited to such items as continuous positive airway pressure (“CPAP”) devices, certain respiratory assist devices, nebulizers, hospital beds and wheelchairs. For such items of DME, payment may not extend over a period of continuous use of longer than 13 months. The option for a supplier to retain ownership of the item after a 15-month rental period and receive semi-annual maintenance and service payments is eliminated. On the first day that begins after the 13th continuous month during which payment is made for the item, the supplier will transfer title of the item to the beneficiary. Additional payments for maintenance and service of the item will be made for parts and labor not covered by a supplier’s or manufacturer’s warranty. The DME capped rental provisions contained in DRA applied to items furnished for which the first rental month occurred on or after January 1, 2006. Accordingly, the first month in which the new payment methodology impacted our net revenues was February 2007. Included in rule CMS-1304-F is a discussion of the Medicare regulations, as interpreted by CMS, necessary to implement the DME capped rental changes contained in the DRA. In addition, on January 26, 2006, CMS announced a final rule revising the payment classification of certain respiratory assist devices (“RADs”). RADs with a backup rate feature were reclassified as capped rental DME items effective April 1, 2006, whereby payments to providers of such devices will cease after the 13th continuous month of rental. Prior to the rule, providers were paid a continuous monthly rental amount over the entire period of medical necessity. In cases where Medicare beneficiaries received the item prior to April 1, 2006, only the rental payments for months after the effective date count toward the 13-month cap. Accordingly, the first month is which the new payment methodology impacted our net revenues was May 2007. The Company estimates that the capped rental changes to DME and RADs reduced the Company’s net revenues and operating income by approximately $11.4 million in 2007 and will reduce net revenues and operating income in 2008 by approximately $22.1 million. In addition, the transfer of ownership provisions affecting Medicare capped rental equipment resulted in a reduction in the estimated useful lives of such equipment beginning in 2006 and a corresponding increase in depreciation expense. The Company will continue to evaluate its estimates of useful lives based on its experience with ownership transfers of capped rental equipment in future periods, which may result in further increases in depreciation expense in the future. A SIGNIFICANT PERCENTAGE OF OUR BUSINESS IS DERIVED FROM THE SALE OF MEDICARE-COVERED RESPIRATORY MEDICATIONS, AND RECENT LEGISLATION IMPOSED SIGNIFICANT REDUCTIONS IN MEDICARE REIMBURSEMENT FOR SUCH INHALATION DRUGS. Historically, prescription drug coverage under Medicare has been limited to drugs furnished incident to a physician’s services and certain self-administered drugs, including inhalation drug therapies. Prior to MMA, Medicare reimbursement for covered Part B drugs, including inhalation drugs that we provide, was limited to 95 percent of the published average wholesale price (“AWP”) for the drug. MMA established new payment limits and procedures for drugs reimbursed under Medicare Part B (See “MEDICARE REIMBURSEMENT”). Beginning in 2005, inhalation drugs furnished to Medicare beneficiaries were reimbursed at 106 percent of the volume-weighted average selling price (“ASP”) of the drug, as determined from data provided each quarter by drug manufacturers under a specific formula described in MMA. Implementation of the ASP-based formula resulted in a dramatic reduction in payment rates for inhalation drugs in 2005 and beyond. Recently enacted legislation will further affect Medicare reimbursement amounts for covered Part B drugs, including inhalation drugs that we provide, beginning April 1, 2008. The SCHIP Extension Act requires CMS to adjust the ASP calculation methodology used to determine Medicare payment amounts for inhalation drugs by using volume-weighted ASPs based on actual sales volume rather than average sales price. When implemented on April 1, 2008, the new calculation methodology is expected to result in lower reimbursement amounts for inhalation drugs. The SCHIP Extension Act also specifically lowers reimbursement for the inhalation drug albuterol sulfate. The Congressional Budget Office (“CBO”) estimates that the provisions of the SCHIP Extension Act affecting Part B drug reimbursement will result in reductions in aggregate Medicare outlays for such drugs of $1.0 billion over five years and $2.6 billion over 10 years. CMS is expected to announce in March 2008 the payment rates to be in effect for the second quarter of 2008 under the new methodology. We can not determine the impact of such payment reductions on the Company’s business until CMS publishes the new quarterly reimbursement amounts for each specific inhalation drug provided by the Company. We can also not determine whether quarterly updates in ASP pricing data will continue to result in ongoing reductions in payment rates for inhalation drugs, and what impact such payment reductions could have on our business in the future. 11 RECENT REGULATORY CHANGES SUBJECT THE MEDICARE REIMBURSEMENT RATES FOR OUR EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES TO ADDITIONAL REDUCTIONS AND TO POTENTIAL DISCRETIONARY ADJUSTMENT BY CMS, WHICH COULD REDUCE OUR REVENUES, NET INCOME AND CASH FLOWS. In February 2006, a final rule governing CMS’ Inherent Reasonableness, or IR, authority became effective. The IR rule establishes a process for adjusting fee schedule amounts for Medicare Part B services when existing payment amounts are determined to be either grossly excessive or deficient. The rule describes the factors that CMS or its contractors will consider in making such determinations and the procedures that will be followed in establishing new payment amounts. To date, no payment adjustments have occurred or been proposed as a result of the IR rule. The effectiveness of the IR rule itself does not trigger payment adjustments for any items or services. Nevertheless, the IR rule puts in place a process that could eventually have a significant impact on Medicare payments for our equipment and services. We can not predict whether or when CMS will exercise its IR authority with respect to payment for our equipment and services, or the effect that such payment adjustments would have on our financial position or operating results. RECENT LEGISLATION ESTABLISHING A COMPETITIVE BIDDING PROCESS UNDER MEDICARE COULD REDUCE OUR REVENUES, NET INCOME AND CASH FLOWS. Recent legislation instructs CMS to establish and implement programs under which competitive acquisition areas will be established throughout the United States for contract award purposes for the furnishing of competitively priced items of DME, including oxygen equipment (See “MEDICARE REIMBURSEMENT”). The program will be implemented in phases such that competition under the program will occur in ten of the largest MSAs in 2008, 80 of the largest MSAs in 2009, and additional areas after 2009. Items selected for competitive acquisition will be phased in first among the highest cost and highest volume items and services or those items and services that CMS determines have the largest savings potential. In carrying out such programs, CMS may exempt rural areas and areas with low-population density within urban areas that are not competitive, unless there is a significant national market through mail order for a particular item or service. For each competitive acquisition area, CMS will conduct a competition under which providers will submit bids to supply certain covered items of DME. Successful bidders will be expected to meet certain program quality standards in order to be awarded a contract and only successful bidders can supply the covered items to Medicare beneficiaries in the acquisition area. The applicable contract award prices are expected to be less than would be paid under current Medicare fee schedules, and contracts will be re-bid at least every three years. CMS will be required to award contracts to multiple entities submitting bids in each area for an item or service, but will have the authority to limit the number of contractors in a competitive acquisition area to the number needed to meet projected demand. CMS may use competitive bid pricing information to adjust the payment amount otherwise in effect for an area that is not a competitive acquisition area. On April 2, 2007, CMS issued rule CMS-1270-F implementing the competitive bidding program in ten of the largest MSAs across the country, applying initially to ten categories of DME and medical supplies. CMS concluded the bidding process for the first round of MSAs in September 2007, and expects to announce winning suppliers early this year and to have payments under the program go into effect in July 2008. CMS expects to begin soliciting bids for the second round of 70 MSAs in the summer of 2008. We can not predict the outcome of the competitive bidding program on our business nor the Medicare payment rates that will be in effect in 2008 and beyond for the items subjected to competitive bidding. FUTURE REDUCTIONS IN REIMBURSEMENT RATES UNDER MEDICAID COULD REDUCE OUR REVENUES, NET INCOME AND CASH FLOWS. Due to budgetary shortfalls, many states are considering, or have enacted, cuts to their Medicaid programs, including funding for our equipment and services. These cuts have included, or may include, elimination or reduction of coverage for some or all of our equipment and services, amounts eligible for payment under co-insurance arrangements, or payment rates for covered items. Approximately 6% of our customers are eligible for primary Medicaid benefits, and State Medicaid programs fund approximately 12% of our payments from primary and secondary insurance benefits. Continued state budgetary pressures could lead to further reductions in funding for the reimbursement for our equipment and services which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results. 12 FUTURE REDUCTIONS IN REIMBURSEMENT RATES FROM PRIVATE PAYORS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND OPERATING RESULTS. Payors such as private insurance companies and employers are under pressure to increase profitability and reduce costs. In response, certain payors are limiting coverage or reducing reimbursement rates for the equipment and services we provide. Approximately 22% of our customers and approximately 29% of our primary and secondary payments are derived from private payors. Continued financial pressures on these entities could lead to further reimbursement reductions for our equipment and services that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. WE DEPEND UPON REIMBURSEMENT FROM THIRD-PARTY PAYORS FOR A SIGNIFICANT MAJORITY OF OUR REVENUES, AND IF WE FAIL TO MANAGE THE COMPLEX AND LENGTHY REIMBURSEMENT PROCESS, OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS COULD SUFFER. We derive a significant majority of our revenues from reimbursement by third-party payors. We accept assignment of insurance benefits from customers and, in most instances, invoice and collect payments directly from Medicare, Medicaid and private insurance carriers, as well as from customers under co-insurance provisions. Approximately 52% of our revenues are derived from Medicare, 29% from private insurance carriers, 12% from Medicaid and the balance directly from individual customers and commercial entities. Our financial condition and results of operations may be affected by the reimbursement process, which in the health care industry is complex and can involve lengthy delays between the time that services are rendered and the time that the reimbursement amounts are settled. Depending on the payor, we may be required to obtain certain payor-specific documentation from physicians and other health care providers before submitting claims for reimbursement. Certain payors have filing deadlines and they will not pay claims submitted after such time. We can not ensure that we will be able to continue to effectively manage the reimbursement process and collect payments for our equipment and services promptly. WE ARE SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE FEDERAL AND STATE REGULATION, AND IF WE FAIL TO COMPLY WITH APPLICABLE REGULATIONS, WE COULD SUFFER SEVERE CRIMINAL OR CIVIL SANCTIONS OR BE REQUIRED TO MAKE SIGNIFICANT CHANGES TO OUR OPERATIONS THAT COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The federal government and all states in which we operate regulate many aspects of our business. In particular, our operating centers are subject to federal laws that regulate the repackaging of drugs (including oxygen) and interstate motor-carrier transportation. Our operations also are subject to state laws governing, among other things, pharmacies, nursing services, distribution of medical equipment and certain types of home health activities. Certain of our employees are subject to state laws and regulations governing the ethics and professional practices of respiratory therapy, pharmacy and nursing. As a health care supplier, we are subject to extensive government regulation, including numerous laws directed at preventing fraud and abuse and laws regulating reimbursement under various government programs. The marketing, billing, documenting and other practices of health care companies are all subject to government scrutiny. To ensure compliance with Medicare and other regulations, regional carriers often conduct audits and request customer records and other documents to support our claims for payment. Similarly, government agencies periodically open investigations and obtain information from health care providers pursuant to the legal process. Violations of federal and state regulations can result in severe criminal, civil and administrative penalties and sanctions, including disqualification from Medicare and other reimbursement programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Health care is an area of rapid regulatory change. Changes in the law and new interpretations of existing laws may affect permissible activities, the costs associated with doing business, and reimbursement amounts paid by federal, state and other third-party payors. We can not predict the future of federal, state and local regulation or legislation, including Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, or possible changes in national health care policies. Future legislation and regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our business. WE ARE SUBJECT TO A CORPORATE INTEGRITY AGEEMENT WITH THE OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL, AND IF WE FAIL TO COMPLY WITH THE TERMS OF THE CORPORATE INTEGRITY AGREEMENT, WE COULD SUFFER SEVERE CRIMINAL, CIVIL OR ADMINISTRATIVE SANCTIONS. We are subject to a five-year corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General that began in May 2006. Violations of the terms of the corporate integrity agreement could result in severe criminal, civil and administrative penalties and sanctions, including disqualification from Medicare and other reimbursement programs. 13 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS UNDER THE FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE PORTABILITY AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 1996 AND RELATED RULES, OR HIPAA, RELATING TO THE TRANSMISSION AND PRIVACY OF HEALTH INFORMATION COULD IMPOSE ADDITIONAL SIGNIFICANT COSTS ON OUR OPERATIONS. Numerous federal and state laws and regulations, including HIPAA, govern the collection, dissemination, use and confidentiality of patient-identifiable health information. HIPAA requires us to comply with standards for the use and disclosure of health information within our company and with third parties. HIPAA also includes standards for common health care electronic transactions and code sets, such as claims information, plan eligibility, payment information and the use of electronic signatures, and privacy and electronic security of individually identifiable health information. Each set of HIPAA regulations requires health care providers, including us, in addition to health plans and clearinghouses, to develop and maintain policies and procedures with respect to protected health information that is used or disclosed. If we do not comply with existing or new laws and regulations related to patient health information, we could be subject to criminal or civil sanctions. New health information standards, whether implemented pursuant to HIPAA or otherwise, could have a significant effect on the manner in which we handle health care related data and communicate with payors, and the cost of complying with these standards could be significant. WE MAY UNDERTAKE ACQUISITIONS THAT COULD SUBJECT US TO UNANTICIPATED LIABILITIES AND THAT COULD FAIL TO ACHIEVE EXPECTED BENEFITS. Our strategy is to increase our market share through internal growth and strategic acquisitions. Consideration for the acquisitions has generally consisted of cash, unsecured non-interest bearing obligations and the assumption of certain liabilities. The implementation of an acquisition strategy entails certain risks, including inaccurate assessment of disclosed liabilities, the existence of undisclosed liabilities, regulatory compliance issues associated with the acquired business, entry into markets in which we may have limited or no experience, diversion of management’s attention and human resources from our underlying business, difficulties in integrating the operations of an acquired business or in realizing anticipated efficiencies and cost savings, failure to retain key management or operating personnel of the acquired business, and an increase in indebtedness and a limitation in the ability to access additional capital on favorable terms. The successful integration of an acquired business may be dependent on the size of the acquired business, condition of the customer billing records, and complexity of system conversions and execution of the integration plan by local management. If we do not successfully integrate the acquired business, the acquisition could fail to achieve its expected revenue contribution or there could be delays in the billing and collection of claims for services rendered to customers, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results. WE FACE INTENSE NATIONAL, REGIONAL AND LOCAL COMPETITION AND IF WE ARE UNABLE TO COMPETE SUCCESSFULLY, WE WILL LOSE REVENUES AND OUR BUSINESS WILL SUFFER. The home respiratory market is a fragmented and highly competitive industry. We compete against other national providers and, by our estimate, more than 2,000 local and regional providers. Home respiratory companies compete primarily on the basis of service rather than price since reimbursement levels are established by Medicare and Medicaid or by the individual determinations of private health plans. Our ability to compete successfully and to increase our referrals of new customers are highly dependent upon our reputation within each local health care market for providing responsive, professional and high-quality service and achieving strong customer satisfaction. Given the relatively low barriers to entry in the home respiratory market, we expect that the industry will become increasingly competitive in the future. Increased competition in the future could limit our ability to attract and retain key operating personnel and achieve continued growth in our core business. INCREASES IN OUR COSTS COULD ERODE OUR PROFIT MARGINS AND SUBSTANTIALLY REDUCE OUR NET INCOME AND CASH FLOWS. Cost containment in the health care industry, fueled, in part, by federal and state government budgetary shortfalls, is likely to result in constant or decreasing reimbursement amounts for our equipment and services. As a result, we must control our operating cost levels, particularly labor and related costs, which account for a significant component of our operating costs and expenditures. We compete with other health care providers to attract and retain qualified or skilled personnel. We also compete with various industries for lower-wage administrative and service employees. Since reimbursement rates are established by fee schedules mandated by Medicare, Medicaid and private payors, we are not able to offset the effects of general inflation in labor and related cost components, if any, through increases in prices for our equipment and services. Consequently, such cost increases could erode our profit margins and reduce our net income. 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 