Item 1A Risk Factors 18 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 21 Item 2 Properties 21 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 21 Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 21 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 22 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 23 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 24 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 41 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 42 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 42 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 42 Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 43 Item 9B Other Information 44 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 44 Item 11 Executive Compensation 44 Item 12 Stockholder Matters 44 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 44 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 44 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule 44 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm F-1 Consolidated Financial Statements F-2 Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule S-1 SIGNATURES EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit 3.2 Exhibit 4.1 Exhibit 10.7 Exhibit 10.29 Exhibit 21.1 Exhibit 23.1 Exhibit 31.1 Exhibit 31.2 Exhibit 32.1 Exhibit 32.2 2 Table of Contents EXPLANATORY NOTE In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Apria Healthcare Group Inc. (“Apria,” the “Company,” “we” or “our”) is restating its Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2006, and the related Consolidated Statements of Income, Stockholders’ Equity and Cash Flows for each of the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 and selected quarterly financial data for the first three quarters in 2007 and all four quarters of 2006. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also reflects the restatement of certain financial information included in Item 6 — Selected Financial Data, in respect of the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003. Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations also includes financial information in respect of the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 that has been restated as compared to the disclosures included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006. Our previously filed Annual Reports on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q which include the financial information that has been restated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K have not been amended. Background of Restatement Historically, we had accounted for deferred revenues and deferred expenses related to equipment we rent to patients under a “reimbursement contract” method. These deferred amounts were included in our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006, on which our independent registered public accountants, Deloitte & Touche LLP, issued an unqualified opinion. In the course of a review in the fourth quarter of 2007 of our accounting for deferred revenue and deferred expenses, it was identified that we had incorrectly deferred revenue related to all of our capitated contracts and that we incorrectly deferred certain indirect and overhead expenses. Based upon our review and after further discussions concerning these issues with Deloitte & Touche LLP, we have concluded that the rental of such equipment should be accounted for under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 13, “Accounting for Leases.” Under SFAS No. 13 lessors are required to recognize rental income over the lease term. We bill for the rental of patient equipment on a monthly basis beginning on the date the equipment is delivered. Since deliveries can occur on any day during a month revenue must be deferred for the amount of billings that apply to the next month. The accounting for the deferral of expenses by lessors is addressed by SFAS No. 91 “Accounting for Nonrefundable Fees and Costs Associated with Originating or Acquiring Loans and Initial Direct Costs of Leases.” Under SFAS No. 91 only the direct costs associated with leases are to be deferred. We have re-evaluated the amount of costs to be deferred and now will be deferring only the direct costs associated with the initial rental period under SFAS No. 91 and have adjusted our financial statements accordingly. On December 31, 2007, management and the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors concluded to restate our previously issued financial statements because of reporting errors solely relating to our accounting for deferred revenue and deferred expenses related to equipment we rent to patients. The impact of the restatement decreased net income for 2006 by $0.7 million, or 0.9%, and increased net income for 2005 by $1.5 million or 2.4%. The cumulative effect of the errors decreased stockholders’ equity as of December 31, 2006 by $10.7 million or 3.0% of retained earnings and 2.6% of total stockholders’ equity. The cumulative effect of the errors decreased stockholders’ equity as of January 1, 2005 by $17.1 million or 7.7% of retained earnings and 4.2% of total stockholders’ equity. In 2006, we made adjustments to our financial statements related to deferral of certain revenue and expenses pursuant to Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) No. 108 issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission. In the SAB 108 adjustment we included all costs, including indirect and overhead costs, which should have not been deferred. Prior to the SAB 108 adjustment in 2006, we did not record any deferred revenues or expenses. As a result of the restatement, the SAB 108 adjustment has been eliminated. On January 3, 2008 we filed a Current Report on Form 8-K — Item 7.01 disclosing the restatement and indicating the impact thereof. See Note 2 — Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements contained in the Notes to Financial Statements in Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for more information regarding the restatement and changes to previously issued financial statements. 3 Table of Contents The following Items include restated financial information as a result of the restatement: • Part II — Item 6 — Selected Financial Data • Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations • Part II — Item 8 — Financial Statement and Supplementary Data Forward Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that are not based on historical facts. All such forward-looking statements are uncertain. We have based the forward-looking statements on, among other things, projections and estimates regarding the economy in general, the healthcare industry and other factors that impact our results of operations. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements. In some cases, forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties contain terminology such as “may,” “should,” “could,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential,” or “continue” or variations of these terms or other comparable terminology. See Item 1A — Risk Factors. PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Apria is a low cost, quality provider of a broad range of home healthcare services through approximately 550 branch locations that serve patients in all 50 states. We have three major service lines: home respiratory therapy, home infusion therapy and home medical equipment. The following table provides examples of the services and products in each service line: Service Line Examples of Services and Products Home respiratory therapy Provision of oxygen systems, stationary and portable ventilators, obstructive sleep apnea equipment, nebulizers, respiratory medications and related clinical/administrative support services Home infusion therapy Intravenous or injectable administration of anti-infectives, pain management, chemotherapy, nutrients (also administered through a feeding tube), immune globulin (“IVIG”), coagulant and blood clotting factors, antitrypsin deficiency (“Alpha-I”) medication, other medications and related clinical/administrative support services Home medical equipment Provision of patient safety items, ambulatory aids and in-home equipment, such as wheelchairs and hospital beds Recent Developments On December 3, 2007, we completed the acquisition of Coram, Inc. Coram, headquartered in Denver, Colorado, was a privately-held, national provider of home infusion and specialty pharmaceutical services to approximately 65,000 patients through a network of more than 70 home infusion branches across the country and 50 company-owned and operated ambulatory infusion suites. Coram has approximately 2,100 employees nationwide. Under the terms of the merger agreement, we acquired Coram for a cash price of $350 million. The results of operations for Coram from the purchase date to December 31, 2007 are included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Strategy We believe our position as a market leader with a diversified product mix will generate future growth. Our strategy is to position ourselves in the marketplace as a high-quality provider of a broad range of healthcare services to our customers. The specific elements of our strategy are: • Grow revenue and market share. We are focused on growing revenues and increasing our market share in our core home respiratory therapy and home infusion therapy service lines. Accordingly, in the fourth quarter of 2006 we began to expand our sales force by 25% and segmented it to focus on these two lines. This focus has allowed us to better penetrate key geographic markets and to more efficiently market our products and services to physicians, hospital discharge planners and managed care organizations. 4 Table of Contents • Leverage nationwide infrastructure. With our 550 locations and our robust platform supporting shared national services, we believe that we can efficiently add products, services and patients to our systems to grow our revenues at lower costs. We seek to achieve margin improvements through operational initiatives focused on the continual reduction of costs and delivery of incremental efficiencies. • Deliver superior customer service. We believe that it is essential in our industry to consistently deliver superior customer service in order to increase referrals and retain existing patients. Performance improvement initiatives are underway in all aspects of our operations including customer service, patient satisfaction, logistics and billing/collections. We believe that by being responsive to our patients’ and payors’ needs we can gain a greater proportion of the growth in the industry than our competitors and gain market share. • Focus on our people. We believe it is crucial to invest in the development and training of our employees to enable them to develop their business and management skills while they continue to deliver high quality, cost-efficient care to our patients. As part of these efforts, we have developed branch manager training programs, an annual, formal human resources planning/review process, formal mentoring programs, e-learning initiatives and focused employee development and retention programs. • Operate our business ethically. We are focused on operating an ethical business by complying with all applicable laws, rules and regulations relating to our business. We operate a formal corporate compliance program which includes a hotline, audits, employee training and compliance policies. As evidence of our system-wide commitment to compliance and ethics, we were awarded the “Ethics in America” award in 2006 by the independent Passkeys Foundation in the “Large Public Company” category. • Maintain independent accreditation at all locations. We were the first homecare provider to seek and obtain voluntary accreditation from the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations or by the Accreditation Commission of Healthcare (collectively, the “Commissions”) almost 20 years ago. All of our locations are currently accredited by the Commissions. Service Lines In each of our three service lines, we provide patients with a variety of clinical and administrative support services, as well as related products and supplies, most of which are prescribed by a licensed physician as part of a care plan. These services include: • providing in-home clinical respiratory care, infusion and respiratory pharmacy management and high-tech infusion nursing; • educating patients and their caregivers about illnesses and providing them with written instructions about home safety, self-care and the proper use of their equipment; • monitoring patients’ individualized treatment plans; • reporting patient progress and status to the physician and/or managed care organization; • providing in-home delivery and set-up of equipment and/or supplies; • maintaining and repairing equipment; and • processing claims to third-party payors, billing and collecting patient co-pays and deductibles. The following table sets forth a summary of net revenues by service line, expressed as percentages of total net revenues: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Home respiratory therapy 67 % 68 % 69 % Home infusion therapy 20 % 18 % 17 % Home medical equipment/other 13 % 14 % 14 % Total net revenues 100 % 100 % 100 % 5 Table of Contents Home Respiratory Therapy. We offer a full range of home respiratory therapy products and services, from the simplest nebulizer to oxygen concentrators and the most complex ventilator or combination therapies, to patients with a variety of conditions, including: • chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases such as emphysema, chronic bronchitis and asthma; • nervous system-related respiratory conditions such as Lou Gehrig’s disease and quadriplegia; • obstructive sleep apnea; • congestive heart failure; and • lung cancer. We employ a nationwide clinical staff of respiratory care professionals to provide direct patient care, monitoring and other support services to our home respiratory therapy patients under physician-directed treatment plans and in accordance with our proprietary acuity program. We derive our home respiratory therapy revenues from the provision of oxygen systems, ventilators, noninvasive positive pressure ventilators, continuous positive and bi-level airway pressure devices, as well as from the provision of sleep apnea monitors, nebulizers and home-delivered respiratory medications, and related services. Home Infusion Therapy. We are America’s largest provider of home infusion therapy services, which includes providing patients with intravenous or injectable medications and clinical services at home or in one of our 50 Company-owned and operated ambulatory infusion suites. Our clinicians assess patients before their discharge from the hospital whenever possible, and then develop, in conjunction with the physician, a plan of care specifically stating the medications prescribed, mode of infusion, duration of care, and prognosis. As an integral part of the infusion service, patients and caregivers also receive complete education about their plan of care to help us achieve our goal of teaching them to become as independent as possible. Home infusion therapy, whereby drugs, pain medications or foods/liquids are administered directly into the body via various types of catheters, or tubing, is frequently used to treat patients with infectious diseases, cancer, gastrointestinal diseases, chronic or acute pain syndromes, immune deficiencies, cardiovascular disease or chronic genetic diseases, and those who require therapies associated with bone marrow or solid organ transplantation. Serving adults and children alike, our home and ambulatory infusion suites deliver infusion drug therapies including but not limited to: • total parenteral (intravenous) nutrition; • anti-infective and anti-fungal medications; • blood clotting factors; • Alpha-1 medication; • cardiac inotropic medications; • chemotherapy; • enteral nutrition; and • pain management. Depending on the therapy, a broad range of venous access devices and pump technologies may be used to facilitate homecare and patient independence. We employ licensed pharmacists and registered high-tech infusion nurses who specialize in the delivery of home infusion therapy. They are available to respond to emergencies and questions regarding therapy 24 hours a day, seven days a week and to provide initial and ongoing training and education to the patient and caregiver. Other support services include supply replenishment, pump management, preventive maintenance, assistance with insurance questions and outcome reporting. We currently operate 98 infusion pharmacy locations nationwide, and 50 Company-owned and operated ambulatory infusion suites to serve our infusion patients. Home Medical Equipment/Other. We provide a wide range of home medical equipment to help improve the quality of life for patients with special needs. Our integrated service approach allows patients, hospital and physician referral sources and managed care systems accessing either our home respiratory or home infusion therapy services to also access needed home medical equipment through a single source. Basic categories of equipment are: • ambulatory equipment, such as canes, crutches and walkers; 6 Table of Contents • hospital room equipment, such as hospital beds and bedside commodes; • bathroom equipment, such as bath and shower benches, elevated toilet seats and toilet, tub or wall grab bars; • phototherapy systems, cabinets, blankets or wraps for babies with jaundice; and • support surfaces, such as pressure pads and mattresses, for patients at risk for developing pressure sores or decubitus ulcers. Organization and Operations Organization. Our approximately 550 locations deliver home healthcare products and services to patients in their homes and to other care sites through our delivery fleet and our qualified delivery professionals and clinical employees. Our home respiratory therapy and home medical equipment service line branches are organized into three geographic divisions that provide management oversight. The recently acquired Coram home infusion business is organized in a single division. Our sales and business operations functions are vertically integrated. The operations function is further divided into receivables management, clinical services, logistics and regulatory compliance. Through this structure, all functions that are performed at the division level have direct reporting and accountability to corporate headquarters. We believe this structure provides control over and consistency among our field locations. In accordance with our strategy to identify opportunities for efficiencies and productivity improvements, we continue to centralize certain functions that are currently performed at the division or branch level. Corporate Compliance. As a leader in the home healthcare industry, we have implemented a compliance program to further our commitment to providing quality home healthcare services and products while maintaining high standards of ethical and legal conduct. We believe that it is essential to operate our business with integrity and in full compliance with applicable regulations. Our Corporate Compliance Program includes a written Code of Ethical Business Conduct that employees receive as part of their initial orientation process. The program is designed to accomplish the goals described above through employee education, a confidential disclosure program, written policy guidelines, periodic reviews, frequent reinforcement, compliance audits, a formal disciplinary component and other programs. Compliance oversight is provided by the Compliance Committee of our Board of Directors, which meets quarterly in conjunction with our internal Corporate Compliance Committee, consisting of senior and mid-level management personnel from various functional disciplines. Pursuant to the merger agreement to acquire Coram, its obligations were assumed. On August 22, 2007, Coram entered into a Certification of Compliance Agreement with the Office of Inspector General (“OIG”) of the United States Department of Health and Human Services (the “Compliance Agreement”) which obligates Coram to maintain a compliance program to monitor and ensure compliance with federal healthcare program requirements. Under the Compliance Agreement, Coram’s compliance program must include maintenance of specified funding levels for the compliance program for at least three years following the date of the Compliance Agreement, prompt refunding of any overpayments, and implementation of various compliance program elements such as training, auditing and disclosure programs, development of a code of conduct and appointment of a compliance officer and compliance committee. Additionally, the Compliance Agreement requires notification to the OIG of certain events and imposes an annual certification requirement on Coram. The Compliance Agreement provides for stipulated penalties for failure to comply with its provisions. We are in the process of considering, and will be discussing with the OIG, the manner in which the Compliance Agreement affects the Company. Internal Audit. Our internal audit function reports directly to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors and provides ongoing assessments of our system of disclosure controls and procedures, and internal control over financial reporting. Our internal audit function is responsible for both operational and financial reviews of our operations, for monitoring compliance with policies and procedures, for the identification and development of best practices within the organization and for confirming compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Operating Systems and Controls. Our business is dependent, to a substantial degree, upon the quality of our operating and field information policies and procedures for proper contract administration, accurate order entry and pricing, billing and collections, and inventory and patient service equipment management. These policies and procedures also provide reporting that enables us to monitor and evaluate contract profitability. Our information services department works closely with all of the corporate departments to ensure that our policies and procedures are compliant with government regulations and payor requirements and to support their business improvement initiatives with technological solutions. See Item 1A — Risk Factors, “Operating Systems and Controls.” We have established performance indicators which measure operating results against expected thresholds for the purpose of allowing all levels of management to identify and modify areas requiring improvement and to monitor the resulting progress. We have also developed mechanisms for measuring and reporting patient and customer satisfaction. Operating models with strategic targets have been developed to move us toward more effective management of the sales, customer service, accounts receivable, clinical and distribution areas of our business. Our management team is compensated using performance-based incentives focused on criteria such as revenue growth and improvement in operating income. Payors. We derive substantially all our revenues from third-party payors, including private insurers, managed care organizations, Medicare and Medicaid. For 2007, approximately 29% of our net revenues were derived from Medicare and 6% from Medicaid. Generally, each third-party payor has specific requirements which must be met before claim submission will result in payment. We have policies and procedures in place to manage the claims submission process, including verification procedures to facilitate complete and accurate documentation. See Item 1A — Risk Factors, “Medicare/Medicaid Reimbursement Rates.” Receivables Management. We operate in an environment with complex requirements governing billing and reimbursement for our products and services. Initiatives focused specifically on receivables management such as system enhancements, process refinements and organizational changes have resulted in improvement and consistency in key accounts receivable indicators. 7 Table of Contents We are expanding our use of technology in areas such as electronic claims submission and electronic funds transfer with managed care organizations to more efficiently process business transactions. This use of technology can expedite claims processing and reduce the administrative cost associated with this activity for both us and our customers/payors. We now submit approximately 80% of our claims electronically. We are also focusing our resources on developing internal expertise with the unique reimbursement requirements of certain large third-party payors, which should help reduce subsequent denials and shorten related collection periods. Our policy is to collect co-payments from the patient or applicable secondary payor. In the absence of a secondary payor, we generally require the co-payment at the time the patient is initially established with the product/service. Subsequent months’ rental fees are billed to the patient. We are also seeking to streamline related processes in order to maximize the co-payment collection rate. Marketing Through our field sales force, we market our services primarily to physicians, managed care organizations, hospitals, medical groups, home health agencies and case managers. We have developed and put into practice several marketing initiatives, including but not limited to: Automated Call Routing Through Toll-Free Numbers. This allows select managed care organizations to reach any of our locations and to access the full range of our services through toll free telephone numbers. Nationwide Accreditation. All of our branch locations are accredited by the Commissions. The Commissions are nationally recognized organizations that develop standards for various healthcare industry segments and monitor compliance with those standards through voluntary surveys of participating providers. As the home healthcare industry has grown, the need for objective quality measurements has increased. Accreditation by the Commissions entails a lengthy voluntary review process that is conducted every three years. Accreditation is widely considered a prerequisite for entering into contracts with managed care organizations at every level and is required for Medicare competitive bidding. Because accreditation is expensive and time consuming, not all providers choose to undergo the process. Essential Care Model. We have developed the Essential Care Model, a proprietary model that defines the services, supplies and products delivered in conjunction with prescribed homecare equipment and therapies. The Essential Care Model is used to establish consistent and clear expectations for referral sources, payors and patients. Patient Satisfaction and Complaint Resolution Process. We have a centralized patient satisfaction survey function that periodically conducts targeted member satisfaction studies for key managed care organizations as specified by various contractual arrangements. The same centralized group manages a complaint resolution process through which service improvements are identified and implemented at the field level. We believe that both centralized processes afford us visibility to centralized performance improvement data and trends that enable us to amend policies and procedures as necessary to meet the needs of patients and referral sources. Apria Great Escapes® Travel Program. Our 550 location network facilitates travel for patients who require oxygen, alternate site infusion or other products, services and therapies. We coordinate equipment and service needs for thousands of traveling patients annually, which enhances their mobility and quality of life. Comprehensive Clinical and Therapy Management Programs. We offer a number of clinical management programs designed to help physicians and managed care customers better manage patients through the use of homecare and achieve substantial healthcare savings through the careful and appropriate oversight and management of high cost medical equipment services and biotherapies. Our RespiratoryAssisttm, SatAssisttm and Enteral Care Programs provide feedback to physicians regarding changes in patients’ clinical status, thus preventing unnecessary hospital or emergency admissions. Our proprietary EyeOn™ infusion therapy management programs for Hemophilia and IVIG support thousands of patients each year. Our extensive experience and clinical expertise have enabled our development of proprietary, proven therapy management programs designed specifically for these high cost and highly complex biotherapies. Our unique EyeOn™ program creates proven cost savings through careful risk assessment, management, and appropriate utilization management techniques. Sales We employ approximately 740 sales professionals whose primary responsibility is to generate new referrals and to maintain existing relationships for all of our service lines. Key customers include physicians and their staffs, hospital-based healthcare professionals and managed care organizations, among others. We provide our sales professionals with the necessary clinical and technical training to represent our major service offerings of home respiratory therapy, home infusion therapy and home medical equipment. As larger segments of the marketplace become involved with managed care, specially trained members of our sales force provide us with a competitive advantage based on their working knowledge of pricing, contracting and negotiating, and specialty-care management programs. 8 Table of Contents An integral component of our overall sales strategy is to increase volume through managed care referral sources and traditional physician referral channels. Specific growth initiatives designed to increase customer awareness of our clinical and operational programs are in place with the goal of securing a greater share of the traditional market. The ultimate decision makers for healthcare services vary greatly, from closed model managed care organizations to preferred provider networks, which are controlled by more traditional means. Our selling structure and strategies are designed to adapt to changing market factors and will continue to adjust as further changes in the industry occur. Managed care organizations continue to represent a significant portion of our business in several of our primary metropolitan markets. No single account, however, represented more than 9% of our total net revenues for 2007. Among our more significant managed care customers during 2007 were Aetna Health Management, CIGNA Health Corporation, Kaiser Foundation Health Plan and United HealthCare Services. We also offer discount agreements and various fee-for-service arrangements to hospitals or hospital systems whose patients have home healthcare needs. See Item 1A — Risk Factors, “Pricing Pressures” and Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Competition The segment of the healthcare market in which we operate is highly competitive. In each of our service lines there are a limited number of national providers and numerous regional and local providers. The competitive factors most important in the regional and local markets are: • reputation with referral sources, including local physicians and hospital-based professionals; • accessibility and responsiveness; • price of services; • overall ease of doing business; • quality of patient care and associated services; and • range of home healthcare services and products. In addition to the foregoing, the most important competitive factors in the larger, national markets are: • ability to service a wide geographic area; • ability to develop and maintain contractual relationships with managed care organizations; • access to capital; • information systems capabilities; and • accreditation by the Commissions or a similar accrediting body. We believe that we compete effectively in each of our service lines with respect to all of the above factors and that we have an established record as a quality provider of home respiratory therapy, home medical equipment and home infusion therapy, as reflected by the accreditation of all of our branches. In each of our service lines there are a number of national providers and numerous regional and local providers with which we directly compete. Among the national providers are, American HomePatient, Medco/Critical Care Systems, Lincare Holdings, Walgreen’s Option Care and Rotech Healthcare. Other types of healthcare providers, including industrial gas manufacturers, individual hospitals and hospital systems, home health agencies and health maintenance organizations have entered, and may continue to enter, the market to compete with our various service lines. Depending on their business strategies and financial position, it is possible that our competitors may have access to significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we do. This may increase pricing pressure and limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share. See Item 1A — Risk Factors, “Pricing Pressures.” Acquisition and Development Activities In order to take advantage of our core competencies, expand our service offerings and enhance our value proposition for our customers, we may elect to make selective acquisitions of businesses with complementary products and services, or with operations in additional markets. We expect to carefully evaluate each acquisition opportunity through an extensive due diligence process to determine those that have the greatest potential for growth and increased profitability under our operating structure. See Item 1 — Business, “Recent Developments” for a discussion of a recent acquisition. 9 Table of Contents Government Regulation We are subject to extensive government regulation, including numerous laws directed at regulating reimbursement under various government programs and preventing fraud and abuse, as more fully described below. We maintain certain safeguards intended to reduce the likelihood that we will engage in conduct or enter into arrangements in violation of these restrictions. Corporate contract services and legal department personnel review and approve written contracts, such as billing contracts and discount agreements, subject to these laws. We also maintain various educational and audit programs designed to keep our managers updated and informed regarding developments on these topics and to reinforce to employees our policy of strict compliance in this area. Notwithstanding these measures, violations of these laws and regulations may still occur. See Item 1A — Risk Factors, “Government Regulation; Healthcare Reform.” Medicare and Medicaid Reimbursement. In 2007, approximately 35% of our revenues were reimbursed under arrangements with Medicare and Medicaid. For 2008, we estimate that the percentage of our revenues reimbursed under arrangements with Medicare and Medicaid will be approximately 31%, although the actual percentage of our revenues reimbursed under these arrangements may be different. No other third-party payor represented more than 9% of our 2007 total net revenues. The majority of our revenues are derived from rental income on equipment rented to patients, sales of equipment, supplies and pharmaceuticals and other items we sell to patients for patient care under fee-for-service arrangements. Revenues derived from capitation arrangements represented 10%, 11% and 11%, respectively, of total net revenues for 2007, 2006 and 2005. Medicare Reimbursement. There are a number of historic and ongoing legislative and regulatory activities in Congress and at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”), that affect or may affect Medicare reimbursement policies for products and services we provide. Certain provisions that impact or may impact our business are outlined below in chronological order. The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 granted authority to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”), to increase or reduce the reimbursement for home medical equipment, including oxygen, by up to 15% each year under an “inherent reasonableness” authority. Pursuant to that authority, CMS published a final rule that established a process by which such adjustments may be made. The rule applies to all Medicare Part B services except those paid under a physician fee schedule, a prospective payment system, or a competitive bidding program. Neither HHS nor CMS has issued any subsequent communication or information for several years and, therefore, we cannot predict whether or when HHS would exercise its authority in this area or predict any negative impact of any such change. In September 2003, the OIG issued a proposed rule intended to clarify certain terms and the application of program authority to exclude claims containing excessive charges. Under the rule, absent good cause, a provider could be excluded if its charges to Medicare or Medicaid were substantially in excess of the provider’s usual charges. The proposed clarification defined “substantially in excess” as charges that are 120% or more of the provider’s usual charges. We, along with many other providers and members of the public, submitted formal comments to the OIG regarding the proposed rule in the fall of 2003. As of June 18, 2007, the OIG withdrew its proposed rule, but stated that it will continue to evaluate billing patterns on a case-by-case basis where Medicare and Medicaid are charged more than other payors without good cause. We cannot at this time quantify any negative impact that the evaluation of billing patterns by the OIG may have on us. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act (“MMA”), which the President signed in December 2003, contained numerous provisions that were significant to us and continue to have an impact on our operations today. Significant provisions, along with subsequent developments, are as follows: • A freeze on annual payment increases for most durable medical equipment — The freeze commenced in 2004 and will continue through 2008. After 2008, the payment update for equipment not subject to competitive bidding will be equal to the Consumer Price Index for urban consumers. • Reimbursement reductions for five durable medical equipment categories — Reimbursement for most oxygen and oxygen equipment, standard wheelchairs (including standard power wheelchairs), nebulizers, diabetic supplies consisting of lancets and testing strips, hospital beds, and air mattresses, became based on the median price paid for such items on behalf of beneficiaries of federal employee health benefit plans. Subsequent legislation has further modified some reimbursement methodology for certain items, such as power wheelchairs and oxygen and oxygen equipment, as described below. • Reimbursement reductions for inhalation drugs — Beginning January 2005, Medicare Part B reimbursement for most drugs, including inhalation drugs, became based upon the manufacturer-reported average sales price (“ASP”) (subject to adjustment each quarter), plus 6%, plus a separate dispensing fee per patient episode. CMS publishes the ASP plus 6% payment levels several weeks before the first day of each quarter, and we have no way of knowing if the quarterly ASPs will increase or decrease since manufacturers report applicable sales price information directly to CMS. Since 2006, dispensing fees have remained at $57.00 for a 30-day supply for a new patient, $33.00 for each 30-day supply thereafter, and $66.00 for each 90-day supply. Effective July 1, 2007, Medicare no longer reimburses providers for compounded inhalation drugs. Because our compounding levels are minimal, this change has no significant effect on us. Subsequent regulations and legislation have further modified reimbursement methodologies for certain inhalation therapies, as described below. 10 Table of Contents The reimbursement methodology for non-compounded, infused drugs administered through Durable Medical Equipment (“DME”), such as infusion pumps, was not affected by this change. It remains based upon either 95% of the October 1, 2003 Average Wholesale Price (“AWP”) or, for those drugs whose AWPs were not published in the applicable 2003 compendia, at 95% of the first published AWP. • Establishment of a competitive bidding program for Medicare Part B — The MMA required implementation of a competitive bidding program for certain DME, and on April 10, 2007, CMS published a final rule implementing such a Medicare Part B competitive bidding program. By statute, CMS is required to implement the DME competitive bidding program over time, with the first phase establishing competitive bidding in 10 of the largest metropolitan statistical areas (“MSAs”), for 2008, with 70 additional markets to be added in 2009, and nationwide implementation in 2010. Our bids for the first round have been submitted. On January 8, 2008, CMS announced the 70 MSAs and product categories for the second round of the competitive bidding program. The exact Competitive Bidding Areas (“CBAs”) will be further clarified in early 2008. CMS anticipates the formal bid process for the second round will begin in the summer of 2008, with implementation in 2009. Competitive bidding imposes a significant risk to suppliers of DME. If a DME supplier operating in a CBA, is not awarded a contract for that CBA, the supplier generally will not be able to bill and be reimbursed by Medicare for DME items supplied in that CBA for the time period covered by the competitive bidding program (unless a supplier is covered by the “grandfathering” provision for existing oxygen or capped rental patients discussed below). Because the applicable statute mandates savings and CMS’ bidding rules require that bids must be less than current Medicare allowable rates, a DME supplier awarded one of the winning bids for the CBA will receive lower Medicare payment rates than those in existence prior to competitive bidding. In addition, there is a risk that the new competitive bidding prices will become a new benchmark for reimbursement from private payors. As competitive bidding is phased in across the country, we and most DME suppliers will likely experience a substantial reduction in reimbursement. Based upon criteria described in the final rule governing competitive bidding, CMS identified both the ten MSAs and product categories for the initial phase of the program. We service all nine of the domestic markets included in the list of initial ten CBAs (Puerto Rico markets excluded). Nine of the ten product categories selected for the first phase are common to all nine domestic markets. The tenth product category is specific to the Miami and Puerto Rico markets only. In the first phase, CMS accepted bids from suppliers for the following product categories: Oxygen Supplies and Equipment; Standard Power Wheelchairs, Scooters and Related Accessories; Complex Rehabilitative Power Wheelchairs and Related Accessories; Mail-Order Diabetic Supplies; Enteral Nutrients, Equipment and Supplies; Continuous Positive Airway Pressure Devices, Respiratory Assist Devices and Related Supplies and Accessories; Hospital Beds and Related Accessories; Negative Pressure Wound Therapy Pumps and Related Supplies and Accessories; Walkers and Related Accessories; and (Miami and Puerto Rico only) Support Surfaces (group 2 mattresses and overlays). The bidding process for the first round of competitive bidding was complex and subject to deadline extensions. The deadline for suppliers to submit bids for participation in the first round of the program was originally 60 days after issuance of the Request for Bids (“RFBs”). However, after issuing the RFBs in mid-May 2007, CMS and its Competitive Bidding Implementation Contractor, extended the deadline for bid submission three times in response to concerns raised by individual suppliers, industry associations and Congress about difficulties experienced with the bid process and Internet-based application process. The revised deadline for submission was September 25, 2007, and we submitted timely bids. Suppliers also must be accredited entities to take part in the program. The accreditation deadline was October 31, 2007; we already are an accredited entity. CMS anticipates that it will announce the winning bidders by March 2008 and expects that the new payment levels will go into effect for the selected DME product categories in the initial ten CBAs beginning July 1, 2008. Contracts with winning bidders for the first round of competitive bidding are expected to be three years in length, except for diabetic supplies, which are expected to be 21 months in length. Consequently, the contract period for mail order diabetic supplies is expected to be from July 1, 2008 to March 31, 2010 and the contract period for all other first round product categories is expected to be from July 1, 2008 to June 30, 2011. New competitive bidding periods in the initial ten markets are expected to begin after the initial contracts end. 11 Table of Contents The final rule governing competitive bidding, among other things, generally requires Medicare beneficiaries who live in a CBA to receive equipment and services that are included within the competitive bidding program exclusively from suppliers who are awarded contracts by CMS, with a few exceptions. The reimbursement rate for the items and services will be the single payment rate that is determined through the bid process. The revenue associated with the items subject to competitive bidding in the initial year of the program represents less than 2% of our 2007 total net revenue. If we become a winning contract supplier in each of the nine initial CBAs serviced by us, and assuming that the CMS estimation of the 10% to 15% reduction in payment for these services is realized, then we estimate this would have caused less than a 0.3% decline in our 2007 total net revenue, if 2007 had been the initial year of competitive bidding. However, the actual impact of the initial year of competitive bidding on our total net revenue will likely be different. Likewise, we cannot predict or guarantee that the reimbursement rates in the CBAs will be reduced as CMS has estimated, or will not be even lower than the CMS projections. In the second and subsequent years of competitive bidding, we expect that the adverse financial impact will increase substantially in amounts that cannot currently be determined. If we are selected as a winning contract supplier in any CBA during any of the competitive bidding periods, we believe that our geographic coverage, clinical marketing programs and purchasing strength provide competitive advantages to maintain and enhance market share, but at lower reimbursement rates. However, there is no guarantee that we will be selected as a winning contract supplier and be awarded a competitive bidding contract by CMS in any of the initial or subsequent CBAs. If we are not selected as a contract supplier for a particular CBA, we will generally not be allowed to supply Medicare beneficiaries with products subject to competitive bidding within that CBA, unless we elect to continue providing service to existing patients under the “grandfathering” provision of the final rule. Under this provision, a supplier may continue to supply certain existing patients that were serviced prior to the implementation of competitive bidding even if the supplier was not awarded a contract, provided certain conditions are met. Because of our combination of both managed care and traditional business, we believe we can nevertheless maintain a favorable overall market position even if we are not selected as a contract supplier for a particular CBA. • Incentives for the expansion of Medicare Part C (Medicare Advantage) — The MMA included financial incentives for managed care plans to expand their provision of Medicare Advantage plans in 2006 in an effort to attract more Medicare beneficiaries to managed care models. We maintain contracts to provide respiratory therapy, infusion and medical equipment and related services to a significant number of managed care plans nationwide. • Reimbursement for home infusion therapy under Medicare Part D — A limited number of infusion therapies, supplies and equipment are covered by Medicare Part B. The MMA, through the new Medicare Part D program, provided expanded coverage for certain home infusion therapy drugs, but excluded coverage for the corresponding supplies and clinical services needed to safely and effectively administer these drugs. We have contracted with a limited number of Medicare Part D prescription drug plans in order to provide continuity of care for certain patients. Due to nationwide Part D implementation issues experienced by home infusion providers, the industry is continuing to work with CMS and Congress to rectify the coverage and payment limitations that are causing implementation challenges for providers, patients and referral sources. A bill was introduced in Congress in the summer of 2006 to consolidate home infusion therapy coverage under Part B, and a similar bill was reintroduced in 2007. This legislation would provide for infusion benefit coverage in a more comprehensive manner that is analogous to how the therapy is covered by the managed care sector. At this time, we cannot assess whether any of the proposed legislation, or similar legislation that may be introduced in 2008, will become law in 2008 or subsequent years. The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (“DRA”), was signed by the President in February 2006. A number of lawsuits were subsequently filed to prevent its implementation because the House and Senate approved different versions of the bill due to a clerical error. Four of these cases were dismissed at the district court level. Two cases were pursued on appeal, and the court of appeals in each case affirmed the district’s court’s decision to dismiss the claims. A petition for a writ of certiorari was filed in both cases and has been denied in one case and is currently pending in the other. As written, the legislation and its implementing regulations contain the following provisions that have impacted or will impact our Medicare reimbursement: • Beginning with patients who received products and services as of January 2006, ownership of durable medical equipment currently categorized in the capped rental category by CMS, such as hospital beds, wheelchairs, nebulizers, patient lifts and continuous positive airway pressure devices, automatically transfers to the Medicare beneficiary at the end of a maximum rental period. As of January 1, 2006, the maximum rental period became 13 months. Therefore the first month in which the new policy had an impact on our revenue was February 2007. In addition, the service and maintenance fee, which had been paid to suppliers twice yearly after the rental period ended in order to cover various non-equipment service costs for patients who require use of the equipment, was eliminated for those patients who commenced service on or after January 1, 2006. Implementing regulations also imposed other repair and replacement obligations on suppliers with respect to equipment that does not last the useful lifetime of the equipment, which CMS has generally defined as being five years. We estimate that the reduction in rental revenues for impacted DME products and the loss of the service and maintenance fees in 2007 was approximately $4.0 million and $0.9 million, respectively. The 2007 estimate assumes the loss of the service and maintenance fee component for one quarter as the effect of the loss impacted the latter part of the year primarily. This estimate is subject to assumptions and uncertainties and the actual negative impact on revenue and fees may be greater or less. 12 Table of Contents • Reimbursement for oxygen equipment converted from an ongoing rental method to a capped rental and rent-to-purchase method. Reimbursement for rental of oxygen equipment is limited to 36 months, after which time the ownership of the equipment transfers to the patient, who assumes primary responsibility for identifying when repairs or preventive maintenance are needed. The 36-month rental period was retroactively applied to January 1, 2006 for all beneficiaries requiring oxygen as of December 31, 2005. Accordingly, January 2009 is the first month in which the transfer of ownership for oxygen equipment and the new repair and maintenance policy will impact us. The implementing DRA regulations also established new payment classes for oxygen equipment, including transfilling and portable equipment, new monthly rental reimbursement rates, and new reimbursement rates for the delivery of oxygen contents for patient-owned equipment after title to the equipment transfers. The new reimbursement amounts went into effect January 1, 2007. CMS will annually review the utilization patterns and fee schedule rates and consider whether an adjustment to the payment rates is needed in order to satisfy the statutory mandate of budget neutrality. Regarding repairs and maintenance of beneficiary-owned oxygen equipment, the implementing DRA regulations permit payment to suppliers for general maintenance and servicing of certain patient-owned oxygen equipment every six months, beginning after the first six months the patient owns the equipment. The first beneficiaries to whom this policy will apply will take title to their equipment in January 2009 and become eligible for maintenance and servicing under this policy beginning in June 2009. The final rule governing repairs and maintenance of oxygen equipment limits payment for general maintenance and servicing visits to 30 minutes of labor based on rates the Medicare contractors establish. CMS declined to offer general maintenance and servicing payments for beneficiary-owned liquid and gas equipment with the exception of a single payment for pick-up and storage or disposal of such equipment that a beneficiary no longer needs. Once title to the oxygen equipment transfers, CMS will also pay for certain other reasonable and necessary but non-routine repairs which remain as yet unspecified by the agency, but CMS will not make separate payment for certain patient support services, which are currently covered by and included in the monthly bundled payment rate for oxygen therapy. We may or may not continue to provide repair and maintenance service on patient-owned equipment and are in the process of evaluating the impact of these changes. The implementing regulations also limit supplier replacement of oxygen equipment during the rental period, and require suppliers to replace beneficiary-owned equipment that does not last the useful lifetime of the equipment, which CMS has generally defined as being five years. Other issues that have had, will or could have an impact on Medicare reimbursement levels to us are summarized as follows: • In January 2006, CMS published a final regulation that shifted payment for certain respiratory assist devices from the current “frequent and substantial” payment category to the “capped rental” category. Under “frequent and substantial” payment, Medicare payment continues for the duration of time the beneficiary requires the device, while “capped rental” payment continues for 13 months. The change in the payment category became effective April 1, 2006. The policy applies to those respiratory assist devices (known as BiPAP STs) that have a backup rate feature that delivers pressure whenever the user’s spontaneous breathing efforts are insufficient. The first claims received for each Medicare beneficiary with a date of service on or after April 1, 2006, including beneficiaries with existing rental equipment, are counted as the first rental month in the capped rental period. Thus, the first month in which the new categorization impacted our revenue was May 2007. Our estimate for this change in payment categories is a reduction in 2007 revenues of approximately $2.5 million. • In January 2006, CMS announced the designation of four specialty contractors, Durable Medical Equipment Medicare Administrative Contractors (“DME MACs”), which are responsible for handling the administration of all Medicare claims from suppliers of durable medical equipment. CIGNA Government Services, LLC (“CGS”), protested the contract awards made in Regions C and D. The Government Accountability Office denied CGS’ protest for Region D but CMS ultimately authorized CGS for Region C on January 16, 2007. The following DME MACs are currently processing claims: National Heritage Insurance Company (“NHIC”), for Region A (effective July 1, 2006), AdminaStar Federal for Region B (effective July 1, 2006), CGS for Region C (effective January 16, 2007), and Noridian Administrative Services for Region D (effective September 30, 2006). The transition caused several challenges for all DME suppliers, such as a slight slowdown in payments from the government’s new DME MACs and an increase in certain denials due to a lack of training resources at the new DME MACs. Industry representatives met with the DME MACs and largely resolved transaction processing challenges by year-end. It is difficult at this time to predict whether other changes in claims administration made by the DME MACs may affect DME suppliers in the future, nor can we predict or estimate the potential impact of such changes on collection of our accounts receivable. • In 2007, there were numerous legislative and executive branch efforts to further reduce the maximum rental period for oxygen therapy, equipment and related services. The industry has actively shared its concerns with Congress, CMS, and others on these issues. Legislative proposals were introduced in Congress in 2007 that would have repealed the current oxygen reimbursement cap and equipment ownership mandate of the DRA, as well as amended or modified existing laws and regulations pertaining to the competitive bidding program and coverage of infusion therapy services. The President’s 2007 healthcare proposals sought to reduce the maximum rental period for oxygen equipment from the now-mandated 36 months to 13 months, which was recommended by the OIG. The President’s fiscal year 2008 and 2009 budgets included 13 Table of Contents such a recommendation. There are other initiatives to reduce the rental period to 13 months or to implement a reduction to the monthly payment rate, but it is uncertain whether any of these initiatives will ultimately be approved by Congress. For example, in September 2006, the OIG published a report entitled “Medicare Home Oxygen: Equipment Cost and Servicing.” The report was the result of an audit survey conducted by the OIG beginning in the fall of 2005. The survey’s stated objective was to study the average acquisition cost of oxygen concentrators and the nature and frequency of servicing. The final report included a recommendation that Congress consider further reductions to oxygen payment levels, including the possibility of limiting the maximum rental period for oxygen equipment from the DRA-mandated 36 months to 13 months. The industry has analyzed the report and shared concerns about the narrow scope of the report and its findings with the OIG, CMS, members of Congress and other government agencies. It is uncertain whether or when any of these efforts will be repeated or successful in 2008. There were significant developments with respect to the coverage and reimbursement of certain inhalation drugs and power mobility devices in 2007 that impact our operations: • In October 2006, CMS issued the 2007 Healthcare Procedure Coding System (“HCPCS”) list for Medicare Part B medications. The 2007 list included new codes for certain compounded medications. The coding and reimbursement changes did not have a material impact on us due to the extremely low volume of patient-specific, physician-prescribed compounding that was performed by our inhalation pharmacies. According to the state licensing agencies associated with the states in which our inhalation pharmacies operate, the pharmacies conform to current quality and sterility standards. CMS stated that patient safety and sterility issues were found at other providers’ pharmacies, which motivated it to change the policies concerning compounded medications. • In response to the 2006 efforts of three Program Safeguard Contractors that oversee DME suppliers, CMS considered issuing a National Coverage Decision (“NCD”), for certain inhalation drug therapies. In the third quarter of 2007, CMS concluded that it would not issue an NCD. Rather, CMS will continue to defer decisions about the medical necessity of individual respiratory drugs to the local contractors. We cannot predict if or when CMS may reconsider this issue and how any subsequent local or national coverage limitation might impact our operations. Future decisions with respect to the coverage of inhalation drugs may have a materially adverse impact on us. In 2007, there also were changes to the reimbursement methodology for certain inhalation drugs. CMS announced in the second quarter of 2007 that beginning in the third quarter of 2007, it would reimburse providers of inhalation drugs a blended average sales price for the drugs albuterol and Xopenex® (1). On December 29, 2007, the President signed into law the Medicare, Medicaid, and State Children’s Health Insurance Program (“SCHIP”) Extension Act of 2007, which partially reversed the CMS regulatory decision regarding Xopenex and albuterol. Beginning on April 1, 2008, Medicare will reimburse for Xopenex in the same manner as in the third quarter of 2007— by blending the average sales price of Xopenex and albuterol — but it will no longer reimburse albuterol at the blended price. The new law is expected to reduce reimbursement for albuterol to approximately the same payment level as in the second quarter of 2007. This provision may have a material and adverse impact on our 2008 results, but we are unable to quantify this impact at this time due to the fluctuation of ASP reimbursement and the fact that the second quarter 2008 ASPs will not be published until mid-March 2008. We have undertaken strategies intended to mitigate in part any potential negative impact associated with this policy change. • In late 2006, CMS revised the Local Coverage Determination (“LCD”) for power mobility devices resulting in reductions to the Medicare power mobility devices fee schedule. The revised fee schedule imposes reductions for certain power mobility devices of about 15%. The initial changes took effect November 15, 2006. The reduction in our revenues for 2007 resulting from these fee schedule changes was approximately $1 million. The industry is continuing work with CMS to obtain clarification and modification of the LCD. The industry also believes that Medicare beneficiary access to power mobility will be restricted by this LCD and therefore has requested revisions to the fee schedule. We also note that there were significant developments with respect to the enrollment of Medicare DME suppliers and government enforcement efforts that could impact our operations in the future: • On July 2, 2007, the Secretary of HHS announced a two-year effort designed to further protect Medicare beneficiaries from fraudulent suppliers of Competitive Acquisition for Certain Durable Medical Equipment, Prosthetics, Orthotics, and Supplies (“DMEPOS”). The initiative is focused on preventing deceptive companies from operating in South Florida and Southern California. Based on the results of the project, it could be expanded nationwide. Subsequently, on July 27, 2007, CMS issued a proposed rule requiring all DMEPOS suppliers to provide CMS with a surety bond of at least $65,000 for each National Provider Identifier (“NPI”), the supplier holds. The rule would ensure that Medicare can recover any erroneous payment amounts or civil money penalties up to $65,000 that result from fraudulent or abusive supplier billing practices. In addition, in August 2007, CMS announced that it would require infusion therapy providers in certain South Florida counties to resubmit applications to be enrolled as qualified Medicare suppliers. We fully support the elimination of fraudulent suppliers and are working with CMS to support these initiatives. (1) Xopenex is a registered trademark of Sepracor, Inc. 14 Table of Contents • On January 25, 2008, CMS proposed regulations expanding and strengthening enrollment requirements that DME suppliers must meet to establish and maintain Medicare billing privileges. These revisions would impose additional requirements in the areas of provider insurance, marketing practices, document retention, facility location, and hours of operation. We intend to submit comments prior to the March 25, 2008 deadline. Although we have not yet had sufficient time to fully evaluate the proposed revisions and their potential impact on our operations, an initial review suggests that there will be no impact if the proposal was finalized in its current form. It is uncertain whether any or all of these proposed regulations will be finalized, however, and we cannot predict or estimate the impact of the final changes, if any. Accreditation is becoming mandatory as a condition of enrollment and continuing participation as a Medicare DME supplier, not just for those DME suppliers participating in the competitive bidding program. We and all of our branches are accredited. DME suppliers enrolling in Medicare for the first time between January 1, 2008 and February 28, 2008, must obtain approved accreditation by January 1, 2009. DME suppliers enrolled in the Medicare program prior to January 1, 2008, must obtain approved accreditation by September 30, 2009. If we or any of our branches lose accreditation, or if any of our new branches are unable to become accredited, that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow and capital resources. • On February 7, 2008, the “Medicare Fraud Prevention Act of 2008” was introduced in the U.S. Senate. The bill would increase financial penalties and prison sentences for certain civil and criminal violations of the Social Security Act, including making false statements and violating the federal anti-kickback statute. We cannot predict whether this Act, or some revised form of it, will or will not become law. We cannot estimate the combined possible impact of all legislative, regulatory and contemplated reimbursement changes that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, and capital resources. Moreover, our estimates of the impact of certain of these changes appearing in this “Government Regulation” section are based on a number of assumptions and are subject to uncertainties and there can be no assurance that the actual impact was not or will not be different from our estimates. Medicaid Reimbursement. State Medicaid programs implement reimbursement policies for the items and services we provide that may or may not be identical to those of the Medicare program. Budget pressures on these state programs often result in pricing and coverage changes that may have a detrimental impact on our operations. States sometimes have adopted alternative pricing methodologies for certain drugs, biologicals, and home medical equipment under their Medicaid programs that reduce the level of reimbursement received by us without a corresponding offset or increase to compensate for the service costs incurred. Historically, we frequently elected to stop accepting new Medicaid patient referrals for the affected drugs, biologicals, and home medical equipment. Should these types of changes occur in the future, we may or may not elect to make similar decisions. Other states have expanded coverage for certain products and services. We cannot predict whether other states will consider reductions as well and whether any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow and capital resources. HIPAA. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), is comprised of a number of components pertaining to the privacy and security of electronic patient health information, as well as the standard formatting of certain electronic health transactions. Many states have similar, but not identical, restrictions. The existing and any new laws or regulations have a significant effect on the manner in which we handle healthcare related data and communicate with payors. We face potential administrative, civil, and criminal sanctions if we do not comply with the existing or new laws and regulations. Imposition of these sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Anti-Kickback Statutes. As a provider of services under the Medicare and Medicaid programs, we must comply with a provision of the federal Social Security Act, commonly known as the “federal anti-kickback statute.” The federal anti-kickback statute prohibits the offer or receipt of any bribe, kickback or rebate in return for the referral or arranging for the referral of patients, products or services covered by federal healthcare programs. Federal healthcare programs have been defined to include plans and programs that provide health benefits funded by the United States Government, including Medicare, Medicaid and TRICARE (formerly known as the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services), among others. Some courts and the OIG interpret the statute to cover any arrangement where even one purpose of the remuneration is to influence referrals. Violations of the federal anti-kickback statute may result in civil and criminal penalties and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. Due to the breadth of the federal anti-kickback statute’s broad prohibition, there are a few statutory exceptions that protect various common business transactions and arrangements from prosecution. In addition, the OIG has published safe harbor regulations that outline other arrangements that also are deemed protected from prosecution under the federal anti-kickback statute, provided all applicable criteria are met. The failure of an activity to meet all of the applicable safe harbor criteria does not necessarily mean that the particular arrangement violates the federal anti-kickback law, but these arrangements will be subject to greater scrutiny by enforcement agencies. 15 Table of Contents Some states have enacted statutes and regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law, but which apply not only to the federal healthcare programs, but any payor source of the patient. These state laws may contain exceptions and safe harbors that are different from those of the federal law and that may vary from state to state. Additionally, a number of states in which we operate have laws that prohibit fee-splitting arrangements between healthcare providers, if such arrangements are designed to induce or encourage the referral of patients to a particular provider. Possible sanctions for violations of these restrictions include exclusion from state-funded healthcare programs, loss of licensure and civil and criminal penalties. Such statutes vary from state to state, are often vague and often have been subject to only limited court or regulatory agency interpretation. See Item 1A — Risk Factors, “Government Regulation; Healthcare Reform.” Physician Self-Referrals. Certain provisions of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (“Stark II”), prohibit healthcare providers such as us, subject to certain exceptions, from submitting claims to the Medicare and Medicaid programs for designated health services if we have a financial relationship with the physician making the referral for such services or with a member of such physician’s immediate family. The term “designated health services” includes several services commonly performed or supplied by us, including durable medical equipment and home health services. In addition, “financial relationship” is broadly defined to include any ownership or investment interest or compensation arrangement pursuant to which a physician receives remuneration from the provider at issue. The prohibition of Stark II applies regardless of the reasons for the financial relationship and the referral; and therefore, unlike the federal anti-kickback law, an intent to violate the law is not required. Like the federal anti-kickback law, Stark II contains a number of statutory and regulatory exceptions intended to protect certain types of transactions and business arrangements from penalty. Compliance with all elements of the applicable Stark II exception is mandatory. We are in the process of evaluating our relationships with physicians to ensure continuing compliance with recent changes to the law’s implementing regulations. Violations of Stark II, or the Stark Law as the broader set of statutes related to the physician self-referral prohibition is known, may result in loss of Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, civil penalties and exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition, a number of the states in which we operate have similar prohibitions against physician self-referrals, which may not necessarily be limited to Medicare or Medicaid services and may not include the same statutory and regulator exceptions found in Stark II. See Item 1A — Risk Factors, “Government Regulation; Healthcare Reform.” False Claims. The Federal False Claims Act imposes civil and criminal liability on individuals or entities that submit false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government. Violations of the civil False Claims Act may result in treble damages, civil monetary penalties and exclusion from the Medicare, Medicaid, and other federally funded healthcare programs. If certain criteria are satisfied, the Federal Civil False Claims Act allows a private individual to bring a qui tam suit on behalf of the government and, if the case is successful, to share in any recovery. False Claims Act suits brought directly by the government or private individuals against healthcare providers, like us, are increasingly common and are expected to continue to increase dramatically. The federal government has used the Federal False Claims Act to prosecute a wide variety of alleged false claims and fraud allegedly perpetrated against Medicare and state healthcare programs. The government and a number of courts also have taken the position that claims presented in violation of certain other statutes, including the federal anti-kickback law or the Stark Law, can be considered a violation of the Federal False Claims Act, based on the theory that a provider impliedly certifies compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, and other rules when submitting claims for reimbursement. A number of states have enacted false claims acts that are similar to the Federal False Claims Act. Even more states are expected to do so in the future because Section 6031 of the DRA amended the federal law to encourage these types of changes, along with a corresponding increase in state initiated false claims enforcement efforts. Under the DRA, if a state enacts a false claims act that is at least as stringent as the federal statute and that also meets certain other requirements, the state will be eligible to receive a greater share of any monetary recovery obtained pursuant to certain actions brought under the state’s false claims act. Currently, over 19 states have some form of false claims act. See Item 1A — Risk Factors, “Government Regulation; Healthcare Reform.” Other Fraud and Abuse Laws. HIPAA created, in part, two new federal crimes: “Healthcare Fraud” and “False Statements Relating to Healthcare Matters.” The Healthcare Fraud statute prohibits executing a knowing and willful scheme or artifice to defraud any healthcare benefit program. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines and/or imprisonment. The False Statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact by any trick, scheme or device or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines and/or imprisonment. 16 Table of Contents In recent years, the federal government has made a policy decision to significantly increase the financial resources allocated to enforcing the healthcare fraud and abuse laws. In addition, private insurers and various state enforcement agencies have increased their level of scrutiny of healthcare claims in an effort to identify and prosecute fraudulent and abusive practices in the healthcare area. See Item 1A — Risk Factors, “Government Regulation; Healthcare Reform.” Healthcare Reform Legislation. Economic, political and regulatory influences are causing fundamental changes in the healthcare industry in the United States. Various healthcare reform proposals are formulated and proposed by the legislative and administrative branches of the federal government on a regular basis. In addition, some of the states in which we operate periodically consider various healthcare reform proposals. We anticipate that federal and state governments will continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery systems and payment methodologies and public debate of these issues will continue in the future. Changes in the law or new interpretations of existing laws can have a substantial effect on permissible activities, the relative costs associated with doing business in the healthcare industry and the amount of reimbursement by governmental and other third-party payors. Due to uncertainties regarding the ultimate features of reform initiatives and their enactment and implementation, we cannot predict which, if any, of such reform proposals will be adopted, or when they may be adopted, or that any such reforms will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity. See Item 1A — Risk Factors, “Government Regulation; Healthcare Reform.” Facility and Clinician Licensure. Various federal and state authorities and clinical practice boards regulate the licensure of our facilities and clinical specialists working for us, either directly as employees or on a per diem or contractual basis. Regulations and requirements vary from state to state. Several states are currently contemplating the establishment or expansion of facility licensure related to the home healthcare industry. The Company is committed to complying with all applicable licensing requirements and maintains centralized functions to manage over 4,500 facility licenses that are required to operate our business. See Item 1A — Risk Factors, “Government Regulation; Healthcare Reform.” Employees As of December 31, 2007, we had 13,276 employees, of which 12,518 were full-time and 758 were part-time. As of December 31, 2007, none of our employees were represented by a labor union or other labor organization. However, on February 6, 2008, we received notification from the National Labor Relations Board certifying unions in five of our branch locations. Website Access to Reports Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, all amendments thereto and all other reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are made available free of charge on the Company’s website as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our Code of Ethical Business Conduct is also available on the Company’s website. In the event we make any amendment to, or grants any waiver from, a provision of the Code of Ethical Business Conduct that applies to the principal executive officer, principal financial officer or principal accounting officer that requires disclosure under applicable Securities and Exchange Commission rules, we will disclose such amendment or waiver and the reasons therefor on our website — www.apria.com. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of February 22, 2008, including the business experience of each executive officer during the past five years: First Elected as Name Age Position Executive Officer Lawrence M. Higby 62 Chief Executive Officer and Director 2002 Lawrence A. Mastrovich 45 President and Chief Operating Officer 2002 Chris A. Karkenny 39 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 2006 William E. Monast 48 Executive Vice President, Sales 2007 Mr. Higby is the Chief Executive Officer of Apria. He has served in that capacity since February 2002 and has been a member of the Board of Directors since February 2002. He joined Apria in 1997. 17 Table of Contents Mr. Mastrovich is the President and Chief Operating Officer of Apria. He has served in that capacity since April 2002. He joined a predecessor company of Apria in 1987. Mr. Karkenny is Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Apria. He has served in that capacity since November 2006. Prior to that, Mr. Karkenny served as Senior Vice President of Corporate Development and Treasury Operations of PacifiCare Health Systems, Inc. Mr. Monast is Executive Vice President of Sales of Apria. He has served in that capacity since September 2007. Mr. Monast served as Division Vice President, Sales for our Eastern Division from 2006 to his appointment as Executive Vice President, Sales. Prior to that, he served as the Division Vice President of Operations for the Northeast Division from 2002 to 2006. He joined Apria in 1998. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Statements made by us in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other reports and statements released by us that are not historical facts constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are necessarily estimates reflecting the best judgment of our senior management based on our current estimates, expectations, forecasts and projections and include comments that express our current opinions about trends and factors that may impact future operating results. Disclosures that use words such as we “believe,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “intend,” “could,” “plan,” “expect,” “project” or the negative of these, as well as similar expressions, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. In addition, statements regarding our estimates or expectations as to the impact of changes in laws, regulations and reimbursement, including any statements regarding the anticipated financial impact, are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions concerning future events, many of which are outside of our control, and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results, performance or achievements, or industry results, to differ materially from any future results, performance or achievements, expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements, whether made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere, should be considered in the context of the various disclosures made by us about our businesses including, without limitation, the risk factors discussed below. We do not plan to update any such forward-looking statements and expressly disclaim any duty to update the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, except as required by law. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks. The following discussion highlights some of these risks and others are discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These and other risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects, operating results or cash flows. The following risk factors are not an exhaustive list of the risks associated with our business. New factors may emerge or changes to these risks could occur that could materially affect our business. Collectibility of Accounts Receivable — Our Failure to Maintain Controls and Processes Over Billing and Collecting or the Deterioration of the Financial Condition of Our Payors Could Have a Significant Negative Impact on Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition. The collection of accounts receivable is one of our most significant challenges and requires constant focus and involvement by management and ongoing enhancements to information systems and billing center operating procedures. Further, some of our payors and/or patients may experience financial difficulties, or may otherwise not pay accounts receivable when due, resulting in increased write-offs. If we are unable to properly bill and collect our accounts receivable, our results will be adversely affected. Operating Systems and Controls — Our Failure to Successfully Design and Implement Computer and Other System Modifications to Maximize Productivity Could Ultimately Have a Significant Negative Impact on Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition. We have identified a number of areas throughout our operations where we intend to modify the current processes or systems in order to attain a higher level of productivity. The ultimate cost savings expected from the successful design and implementation of such initiatives will be necessary to help offset the impact of Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement reductions and continued downward pressure on pricing. Our failure to successfully design and implement our planned system modifications and other productivity improvements could have a significant impact on our operations and financial condition. Further, the implementation of these system changes could have a disruptive effect on related transaction processing and operations. 18 Table of Contents Medicare/Medicaid Reimbursement Rates — Continued Reductions in Medicare and Medicaid Reimbursement Rates Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition. Medicare Reimbursement Reductions. There are ongoing legislative and regulatory efforts to reduce or otherwise adversely affect Medicare reimbursement rates for products and services we provide. For example, the regulations implementing the mandates under the MMA, reduced the reimbursement for a number of products and services we provide and established a competitive bidding program for certain durable medical equipment under Medicare Part B. Competitive bidding is intended to further reduce reimbursement for certain products and will likely decrease the number of companies permitted to serve Medicare beneficiaries in the CBAs. Competitive bidding is scheduled to begin in 10 of the largest metropolitan statistical areas in 2008, with 70 additional markets to be added in 2009 and nationwide implementation in 2010. See Item 1 — Business — “Government Regulation — Medicare Reimbursement” for additional information regarding the competitive bidding program. Further, the DRA resulted in reduced reimbursement rates for certain durable medical equipment, including the home oxygen equipment and services we provide, a reduced period for rental revenue, and potential increased costs to us associated with replacement of certain patient-owned equipment. There have been proposals by the President and the Congress to further reduce the maximum capped rental period for oxygen below the 36-month level mandated by the DRA to 13 and 18 months, respectively. While these proposals have not been enacted, similar proposals are likely to be raised in the near future. See Item 1 — Business — “Government Regulation — Medicare Reimbursement” for additional information regarding the DRA and these proposals. In addition to these activities, certain other proposed legislative and regulatory activities may affect reimbursement policies and rates for other items and services we provide. These enacted and proposed changes, including actual or pending proposed reductions in Medicare reimbursement rates or rental periods for our products and services, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity. Medicaid Reimbursement Reductions. There are ongoing state and federal legislative and regulatory efforts to reduce or otherwise adversely affect Medicaid reimbursement rates for products and services we provide. For a number of years, some states have adopted alternative pricing methodologies for certain drugs, biologicals and home medical equipment reimbursed under the Medicaid program. In a number of states, the changes reduced the level of reimbursement we received for these items without a corresponding offset or increase to compensate for the service costs we incurred. In several of those states, we elected to stop accepting new Medicaid patient referrals for the affected drugs and biologicals. In light of continuing budget pressure states may continue to consider new or other reductions in Medicaid reimbursement for drugs, biologicals, and other durable medical equipment and affiliated services. In addition, changes to the federal regulations pertaining to prescription drug pricing may also impact the ultimate Medicaid reimbursement available to us. We cannot estimate the ultimate impact of all legislated and contemplated Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement changes or provide assurance to investors that additional reimbursement reductions will not be made or will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity. For further information, see Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — “Medicare Reimbursement” and see Item 1 — Business — “Government Regulation — Medicare and Medicaid Reimbursement.” Other Pricing Pressures — We Believe That Continued Pressure to Reduce Healthcare Costs Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Us. As the result of continuing reductions in payor reimbursement, we, like many other healthcare companies, are making substantial efforts to reduce our costs in providing healthcare services and products. Certain managed care organizations, larger group purchasing organizations, and supplier groups also are regularly attempting to seek reductions in the prices at which we provide services to them and their patients. We have a large number of contractual arrangements with managed care organizations and other parties, which represented approximately 65% of our total net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007, and we expect that we will continue to enter into more of these contractual arrangements. If we are unable to successfully reduce our costs, we may be unable to continue to provide services directly to patients of certain payors or through these contractual arrangements. This would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity. The segment of the healthcare market in which we operate is highly competitive. In each of our service lines, there are a number of national providers and numerous regional and local providers. Other types of healthcare providers, including industrial gas manufacturers, individual hospitals and hospital systems, home health agencies and health maintenance organizations have entered and may continue to enter the market to compete with our various service lines. With access to significantly greater financial and market resources than what is available to us, some of these competitors may be better positioned to compete in the market. This may increase pricing pressure and limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity. 19 Table of Contents Government Regulation; Healthcare Reform — Non-Compliance with Laws and Regulations Applicable to Our Business and Future Changes in Those Laws and Regulations Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Us. We are subject to stringent laws and regulations at both the federal and state levels, requiring compliance with burdensome and complex billing, substantiation and record-keeping requirements. Financial relationships between us and physicians and other referral sources are also subject to strict limitations. In addition, strict licensing and safety requirements apply to the provision of services, pharmaceuticals and medical equipment. Violations of these laws and regulations could subject us to severe fines, facility shutdowns and possible exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Government officials and the public will continue to debate healthcare reform. Potential new federal or state public policy changes to cover the uninsured could ultimately also affect payment rates to providers or initiate new provider fees or taxes. Changes in public policy, healthcare law, new interpretations of existing laws, or changes in payment methodology may have a significant effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity. Facility and Clinician Licensure — Our Failure to Maintain Required Licensure for Our Facilities and Clinical Employees Could Impact Our Operations. As part of our agreements with federal and managed care payors, we are required to maintain the required state and/or federal licensure for our facilities. Certain employees — primarily those with clinical expertise in pharmacy, nursing, respiratory therapy and nutrition — are required to maintain one or more licenses to practice in their home state or adjacent states. The Company manages the facility licensing function centrally and believes that it has the correct controls in place to ensure that all facilities are appropriately licensed. In addition, although individual clinical employees are responsible for obtaining, maintaining and renewing their applicable clinical licenses, the company also has processes in place designed to notify branch or pharmacy managers of renewal dates for the clinical employees under their supervision. Although we believe we have the right systems in place to monitor licensure, our failure to maintain appropriate licensure for our facilities and clinicians could result in refunds to federal payors, sanctions or fines. Economic and Political Events, International Conflicts and Natural Disasters — Significant Global or Regional Developments That Are Out of the Company’s Control Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Us. Further reductions in reimbursement from Medicare and Medicaid programs could result if there is a significant change in government spending priorities. The costs of military and security activities or prolonged relief efforts in response to a natural disaster could increase pressure to reduce government expenditures for other purposes, including government-funded programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Such further reimbursement reductions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity. Our Variable Rate Indebtedness Subjects Us to Interest Rate Risk, Which Could Cause Our Debt Service Obligations to Increase Significantly. Borrowings under our senior secured credit facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows would correspondingly decrease. Our Strategic Growth Plan, Which Involves the Acquisition of Other Companies, Including Coram, May Not Succeed. Our strategic growth plan involves, in part, the acquisition of other companies. Such growth involves a number of risks, including: • difficulties related to combining previously separate businesses into a single unit, including product and service offerings, distribution and operational capabilities and business cultures; • customer loss and other general business disruption; • managing the integration process while completing other independent acquisitions or dispositions; • minimizing the diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day operations; • assumption of liabilities of an acquired business, including unforeseen or contingent liabilities or liabilities in excess of the amounts estimated; • failure to realize anticipated benefits and synergies, such as cost savings and revenue enhancements; • potentially substantial costs and expenses associated with acquisitions and dispositions; • failure to retain and motivate key employees; 20 Table of Contents • coordinating research and development activities to enhance the introduction of new products and services; • dilution of existing stockholders and convertible note holders due to the issuance of equity securities, utilization of cash reserves, or incurrence of debt in order to fund the acquisitions; and • difficulties in applying our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures to an acquired business. We May Not Realize Benefits from the Acquisition of Coram Because of Integration and Other Challenges. Our failure to meet the challenges involved in successfully integrating Coram and our home infusion therapy business or otherwise to realize the anticipated benefits or synergies of the acquisition could seriously harm our results of operations. The integration of Coram’s operations is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process that could significantly disrupt our and Coram’s business, even with proper planning and implementation. In addition to the integration risks referenced in the preceding risk factor, our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies could be adversely impacted by practical, legal or regulatory constraints on our ability to combine operations. If we do not successfully integrate the operations of Coram and our home infusion therapy business in a timely manner, or at all, we may not realize the anticipated benefits or synergies of the acquisition to the extent, or in the timeframe, anticipated. In addition, the anticipated benefits and synergies are based on projections and assumptions, not actual experience, and assume a successful integration. We May Not Have the Funds Necessary to Repurchase our 33/8% Convertible Senior Notes on September 1, 2008. Pursuant to the terms of the indenture governing our 33/8% Convertible Subordinated Notes, on September 1, 2008, the holders of the notes may elect to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes for cash. Additionally, if we are required to redeem the entire principal amount of the notes, it would be subject to a tax payment of $30 million. Our ability to refinance these amounts are dependent on many factors, including, but not limited to, the credit markets and our credit rating. Our failure to repurchase the notes when required by the noteholders would result in an event of default with respect to the notes. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient financial resources or will be able to arrange for alternative financing to pay the aggregate repurchase price in cash for any notes tendered for repurchase by the holders thereof on September 1, 2008, nor can we assure you that we will have the funding available to pay the associated tax liability. Our failure to satisfy these requirement could have a negative impact on our business and operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 