Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward-Looking Statements Statements in this annual report concerning future results, performance or expectations are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based upon information available to Lincare as of the date hereof and Lincare assumes no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause Lincare’s actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements. In some cases, forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties contain terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential,” or “continue” or variations of these terms or other comparable terminology. Key factors that have an impact on Lincare’s ability to attain these estimates include potential reductions in reimbursement rates by government and third party payors, changes in reimbursement policies, the demand for Lincare’s products and services, the availability of appropriate acquisition candidates and Lincare’s ability to 9 Table of Contents successfully complete and integrate acquisitions, efficient operations of Lincare’s existing and future operating facilities, regulation and/or regulatory action affecting Lincare or its business, economic and competitive conditions, access to borrowed and/or equity capital on favorable terms and other risks described below. In developing our forward-looking statements, we have made certain assumptions relating to reimbursement rates and policies, internal growth and acquisitions and the outcome of various legal and regulatory proceedings. If the assumptions we use differ materially from what actually occurs, then actual results could vary significantly from the performance projected in the forward-looking statements. We are under no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this report. Certain Risk Factors Relating to the Company’s Business We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks. The following discussion highlights some of these risks and others are discussed elsewhere in this report. These and other risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. A MAJORITY OF OUR CUSTOMERS HAVE PRIMARY HEALTH COVERAGE UNDER MEDICARE PART B, AND RECENTLY ENACTED AND FUTURE CHANGES IN THE REIMBURSEMENT RATES OR PAYMENT METHODOLOGIES UNDER THE MEDICARE PROGRAM COULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. As a provider of home oxygen and other respiratory therapy services for the home health care market, we have historically depended heavily on Medicare reimbursement as a result of the high proportion of elderly persons suffering from respiratory disease. Medicare Part B, the Supplementary Medical Insurance Program, provides coverage to eligible beneficiaries for DME, such as oxygen equipment, respiratory assistance devices, continuous positive airway pressure devices, nebulizers and associated inhalation medications, hospital beds and wheelchairs for the home setting. Approximately 68 percent of our customers have primary coverage under Medicare Part B. There are increasing pressures on Medicare to control health care costs and to reduce or limit reimbursement rates for home medical equipment and services. Medicare reimbursement is subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, administrative and executive orders and governmental funding restrictions, all of which could materially decrease payments to us for the services and equipment we provide. Recent legislation and coverage policy revisions, including the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 (“MIPPA”), the Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007 (“SCHIP Extension Act”), the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (“DRA”) and the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (“MMA”) contain provisions that directly impact reimbursement for the primary respiratory and other DME products provided by Lincare. MIPPA delays for up to 18 months the implementation of a Medicare competitive bidding program for oxygen equipment and certain other DME items that was scheduled to begin on July 1, 2008 and institutes a 9.5% price reduction nationwide for these items as of January 1, 2009. The SCHIP Extension Act reduced Medicare reimbursement amounts for covered Part B drugs, including inhalation drugs that we provide, beginning April 1, 2008. DRA contains provisions that will negatively impact reimbursement for oxygen equipment beginning in 2009 and negatively impacted reimbursement for DME items subject to capped rental payments beginning in 2007. MMA significantly reduced reimbursement for inhalation drug therapies beginning in 2005, reduced payment amounts for five categories of DME, including oxygen, beginning in 2005, froze payment amounts for other covered DME items through 2007, established a competitive acquisition program for DME and implemented quality standards and accreditation requirements for DME suppliers. These legislative provisions, when fully implemented, will materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. See “MEDICARE REIMBURSEMENT” for a full discussion of the MIPPA, SCHIP Extension Act, DRA and MMA provisions. 10 Table of Contents A SIGNIFICANT PERCENTAGE OF OUR BUSINESS IS DERIVED FROM THE SALE AND RENTAL OF MEDICARE-COVERED OXYGEN AND DME ITEMS, AND RECENT LEGISLATIVE ACTS IMPOSE SUBSTANTIAL CHANGES IN THE MEDICARE PAYMENT METHODOLOGIES AND REDUCTIONS IN THE MEDICARE PAYMENT AMOUNTS FOR THESE ITEMS. DRA changes the reimbursement methodology for oxygen equipment from continuous monthly payment for as long as the equipment is in use by a Medicare beneficiary, which includes payment for oxygen contents, related disposable supplies and accessories and maintenance of equipment, to a capped rental arrangement whereby payment for oxygen equipment may not extend over a period of continuous use of longer than 36 months. Separate payments for oxygen contents will continue to be made for the period of medical need beyond the 36th month. Additionally, payment for routine maintenance and service of the oxygen equipment, limited to 30 minutes of labor, will be made following each six-month period after the 36-month rental period ends. The oxygen provisions contained in DRA became effective on January 1, 2006. In the case of beneficiaries receiving oxygen equipment prior to the effective date, the 36-month period of continuous use began on January 1, 2006. Accordingly, the first month in which the new payment methodology impacted our net revenues was January 2009. The DRA oxygen provisions and related regulations represent a fundamental change in the Medicare payment system for oxygen. These provisions are complex, and are expected to result in profound changes in the provider-customer relationship for oxygen equipment and related services. CMS has published initial claims submission and processing guidelines for providers and Medicare administrative contractors, however, final claims filing and payment instructions are still being developed by CMS. The financial impact to the Company of the oxygen capped rental regulations will be dependent upon a number of variables, including (i) the number of Medicare oxygen customers reaching 36 months of continuous service, (ii) the number of customers receiving reimbursable oxygen contents beyond the 36-month rental period and the coverage and billing requirements established by CMS for suppliers to receive payment for such oxygen contents, (iii) the ultimate duration of therapy for customers on service beyond 36 months, (iv) the incidence of customers with equipment deemed to be beyond its useful life that may be eligible for new equipment and therefore a new rental episode, and the coverage and billing requirements established by CMS for suppliers to receive payment for the period, (v) payment amounts and coverage guidelines established by CMS to reimburse suppliers for maintenance of oxygen equipment, and (vi) the extent to which other government and private payors attempt to adopt new oxygen payment rules similar to those now in effect under Medicare. The Company continues to evaluate these factors in order to determine the expected impact of the regulations, which we believe will have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating income, cash flows and financial position in 2009 and beyond. The Company has developed a preliminary estimate of the potential reduction in our revenues and operating income in 2009 resulting from the oxygen capped rental regulations of between $130 million and $145 million. The assumptions used to develop this estimate are highly dependent upon the variables listed above, as well as other factors that we may be unable to anticipate. This estimate may be unreliable and subject to change as more information becomes available to the Company. DRA also changed the reimbursement methodology for items of DME in the capped rental payment category, including but not limited to such items as continuous positive airway pressure (“CPAP”) devices, certain respiratory assist devices, nebulizers, hospital beds and wheelchairs. For such items of DME, payment may not extend over a period of continuous use of longer than 13 months. On the first day that begins after the 13th continuous month during which payment is made for the item, the supplier must transfer title of the item to the beneficiary. Additional payments for maintenance and service of the item are made for parts and labor not covered by a supplier’s or manufacturer’s warranty. The DME capped rental provisions contained in DRA applied to items furnished for which the first rental month occurred on or after January 1, 2006. Accordingly, the first month in which the new payment methodology impacted our net revenues was February 2007. On January 26, 2006, CMS announced a final rule revising the payment classification of certain respiratory assist devices (“RADs”). RADs with a backup rate feature were reclassified as capped rental DME items 11 Table of Contents effective April 1, 2006, whereby payments to providers of such devices cease after the 13th continuous month of rental. Prior to the rule, providers were paid a continuous monthly rental amount over the entire period of medical necessity. In cases where Medicare beneficiaries received the item prior to April 1, 2006, only the rental payments for months after the effective date count toward the 13-month cap. Accordingly, the first month in which the new payment methodology impacted our net revenues was May 2007. We estimate that the capped rental changes to DME and RADs reduced our net revenues by approximately $11.4 million in 2007 and by an additional $11.3 million in 2008. On July 15, 2008, Congress enacted the MIPPA legislation which contains provisions that reduce Medicare payment rates nationwide for certain DME items, including oxygen equipment, by 9.5% beginning in 2009. In addition to the 9.5% reduction, CMS subjected the monthly payment amount for stationary oxygen equipment to additional cuts of 2.3%, thereby reducing the monthly payment rate from $199.28 in 2008 to $175.79 in 2009. We estimate that these price reductions, in aggregate, will reduce our net revenues and operating income by approximately $110 million in 2009. A SIGNIFICANT PERCENTAGE OF OUR BUSINESS IS DERIVED FROM THE SALE OF MEDICARE-COVERED RESPIRATORY MEDICATIONS, AND RECENT LEGISLATION AND MEDICARE POLICY REVISIONS IMPOSED SIGNIFICANT REDUCTIONS IN MEDICARE REIMBURSEMENT FOR SUCH INHALATION DRUGS. Recently enacted legislation negatively affected Medicare reimbursement amounts for covered Part B drugs, including inhalation drugs that we provide, beginning April 1, 2008 (See “MEDICARE REIMBURSEMENT”). The SCHIP Extension Act required CMS to adjust the average sales price (“ASP”) calculation methodology used to determine Medicare payment amounts for inhalation drugs by using volume-weighted ASPs based on actual sales volume rather than average sales price. The SCHIP Extension Act also specifically lowered reimbursement for the inhalation drug albuterol. Based on the payment rates published quarterly by CMS for inhalation drugs dispensed in 2008, we estimate that our reimbursement for such drugs was reduced by approximately $72.6 million in 2008. We can not determine whether quarterly updates in ASP pricing data will continue to result in ongoing reductions in payment rates for inhalation drugs, or what impact such payment reductions could have on our business in the future. RECENT REGULATORY CHANGES SUBJECT THE MEDICARE REIMBURSEMENT RATES FOR OUR EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES TO ADDITIONAL REDUCTIONS AND TO POTENTIAL DISCRETIONARY ADJUSTMENT BY CMS, WHICH COULD REDUCE OUR REVENUES, NET INCOME AND CASH FLOWS. In February 2006, a final rule governing CMS’ Inherent Reasonableness, or IR, authority became effective. The IR rule establishes a process for adjusting fee schedule amounts for Medicare Part B services when existing payment amounts are determined to be either grossly excessive or deficient. The rule describes the factors that CMS or its contractors will consider in making such determinations and the procedures that will be followed in establishing new payment amounts. To date, no payment adjustments have occurred or been proposed as a result of the IR rule. The effectiveness of the IR rule itself does not trigger payment adjustments for any items or services. Nevertheless, the IR rule puts in place a process that could eventually have a significant impact on Medicare payments for our equipment and services. We can not predict whether or when CMS will exercise its IR authority with respect to payment for our equipment and services, or the effect that such payment adjustments would have on our financial position or operating results. FUTURE IMPLEMENTATION OF A COMPETITIVE BIDDING PROCESS UNDER MEDICARE COULD REDUCE OUR REVENUES, NET INCOME AND CASH FLOWS. CMS is required by law to establish and implement programs under which competitive acquisition areas will be established throughout the United States for contract award purposes for the furnishing of competitively 12 Table of Contents priced items of DME, including oxygen equipment (See “MEDICARE REIMBURSEMENT”). The program was initially intended to be implemented in phases such that competition under the program would occur in ten of the largest MSAs in the first year, 80 of the largest MSAs in the following year, and additional areas thereafter. For each competitive acquisition area, CMS is to conduct a competition under which providers will submit bids to supply certain covered items of DME. Successful bidders will be expected to meet certain program quality standards in order to be awarded a contract and only successful bidders can supply the covered items to Medicare beneficiaries in the acquisition area. The applicable contract award prices are expected to be less than would be paid under current Medicare fee schedules, and contracts will be re-bid at least every three years. CMS will be required to award contracts to multiple entities submitting bids in each area for an item or service, but will have the authority to limit the number of contractors in a competitive acquisition area to the number needed to meet projected demand. CMS may use competitive bid pricing information to adjust the payment amounts otherwise in effect for an area that is not a competitive acquisition area. CMS concluded the bidding process for the first round of MSAs in September 2007. On March 20, 2008, CMS completed the bid evaluation process and announced the payment amounts that would have taken effect in the ten competitive bidding areas beginning July 1, 2008. Contracts to provide products within the competitive bid areas were awarded to selected suppliers and took effect on July 1, 2008. On July 15, 2008, Congress enacted the MIPPA legislation which retroactively delayed the implementation of competitive bidding for up to 18 months and reduced Medicare prices nationwide by 9.5% beginning in 2009 for the product categories, including oxygen, that were initially included in competitive bidding. As a result of the delay, CMS cancelled all contract awards retroactively to June 30, 2008. On January 16, 2009, CMS published its interim final rule for competitive bidding which outlines the process for rebidding the first round of competitive bidding in 2009. The bidding will apply to nine of the original ten MSAs in round one and will be expanded to additional MSAs in 2011. A competition for a national mail order competitive bidding program may occur after 2010. It is unclear at this time when contracts would be awarded under the program and the respective effective dates of the contracts. We will continue to monitor developments regarding the implementation of the competitive bidding program. We can not predict the outcome of the competitive bidding program on our business when fully implemented nor the Medicare payment rates that will be in effect in future years for the items subjected to competitive bidding. FUTURE REDUCTIONS IN REIMBURSEMENT RATES UNDER MEDICAID COULD REDUCE OUR REVENUES, NET INCOME AND CASH FLOWS. Due to budgetary shortfalls, many states are considering, or have enacted, cuts to their Medicaid programs, including funding for our equipment and services. These cuts have included, or may include, elimination or reduction of coverage for some or all of our equipment and services, amounts eligible for payment under co-insurance arrangements, or payment rates for covered items. Approximately 6% of our customers are eligible for primary Medicaid benefits, and State Medicaid programs fund approximately 13% of our payments from primary and secondary insurance benefits. Continued state budgetary pressures could lead to further reductions in funding for the reimbursement for our equipment and services which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results. FUTURE REDUCTIONS IN REIMBURSEMENT RATES FROM PRIVATE PAYORS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND OPERATING RESULTS. Payors such as private insurance companies and employers are under pressure to increase profitability and reduce costs. In response, certain payors are limiting coverage or reducing reimbursement rates for the equipment and services we provide. Approximately 24% of our customers and approximately 33% of our primary and secondary payments are derived from private payors. Continued financial pressures on these entities could lead to further reimbursement reductions for our equipment and services that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. 13 Table of Contents WE DEPEND UPON REIMBURSEMENT FROM THIRD-PARTY PAYORS FOR A SIGNIFICANT MAJORITY OF OUR REVENUES, AND IF WE FAIL TO MANAGE THE COMPLEX AND LENGTHY REIMBURSEMENT PROCESS, OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS COULD SUFFER. We derive a significant majority of our revenues from reimbursement by third-party payors. We accept assignment of insurance benefits from customers and, in most instances, invoice and collect payments directly from Medicare, Medicaid and private insurance carriers, as well as from customers under co-insurance provisions. Approximately 47% of our revenues are derived from Medicare, 33% from private insurance carriers, 13% from Medicaid and the balance directly from individual customers and commercial entities. Our financial condition and results of operations may be affected by the reimbursement process, which in the health care industry is complex and can involve lengthy delays between the time that services are rendered and the time that the reimbursement amounts are settled. Depending on the payor, we may be required to obtain certain payor-specific documentation from physicians and other health care providers before submitting claims for reimbursement. Certain payors have filing deadlines and they will not pay claims submitted after such time. We can not ensure that we will be able to continue to effectively manage the reimbursement process and collect payments for our equipment and services promptly. WE ARE SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE FEDERAL AND STATE REGULATION, AND IF WE FAIL TO COMPLY WITH APPLICABLE REGULATIONS, WE COULD SUFFER SEVERE CRIMINAL OR CIVIL SANCTIONS OR BE REQUIRED TO MAKE SIGNIFICANT CHANGES TO OUR OPERATIONS THAT COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The federal government and all states in which we operate regulate many aspects of our business. In particular, our operating centers are subject to federal laws that regulate the repackaging of drugs (including oxygen) and interstate motor-carrier transportation. Our operations also are subject to state laws governing, among other things, pharmacies, nursing services, distribution of medical equipment and certain types of home health activities. Certain of our employees are subject to state laws and regulations governing the ethics and professional practices of respiratory therapy, pharmacy and nursing. As a health care supplier, we are subject to extensive government regulation, including numerous laws directed at preventing fraud and abuse and laws regulating reimbursement under various government programs. The marketing, billing, documenting and other practices of health care companies are all subject to government scrutiny. To ensure compliance with Medicare and other regulations, regional carriers often conduct audits and request customer records and other documents to support our claims for payment. Similarly, government agencies periodically open investigations and obtain information from health care providers pursuant to legal process. Violations of federal and state regulations can result in severe criminal, civil and administrative penalties and sanctions, including disqualification from Medicare and other reimbursement programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Health care is an area of rapid regulatory change. Changes in the law and new interpretations of existing laws may affect permissible activities, the costs associated with doing business, and reimbursement amounts paid by federal, state and other third-party payors. We can not predict the future of federal, state and local regulation or legislation, including Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, or possible changes in national health care policies. Future legislation and regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our business. WE ARE SUBJECT TO A CORPORATE INTEGRITY AGREEMENT WITH THE OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL, AND IF WE FAIL TO COMPLY WITH THE TERMS OF THE CORPORATE INTEGRITY AGREEMENT, WE COULD SUFFER SEVERE CRIMINAL, CIVIL OR ADMINISTRATIVE SANCTIONS. We are subject to a five-year corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General that began in May 2006. Violations of the terms of the corporate integrity agreement could result in severe criminal, civil and administrative penalties and sanctions, including disqualification from Medicare and other reimbursement programs. 14 Table of Contents COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS UNDER THE FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE PORTABILITY AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 1996 AND RELATED RULES, OR HIPAA, RELATING TO THE TRANSMISSION AND PRIVACY OF HEALTH INFORMATION COULD IMPOSE ADDITIONAL SIGNIFICANT COSTS ON OUR OPERATIONS. Numerous federal and state laws and regulations, including HIPAA, govern the collection, dissemination, use and confidentiality of patient-identifiable health information. HIPAA requires us to comply with standards for the use and disclosure of health information within our company and with third parties. HIPAA also includes standards for common health care electronic transactions and code sets, such as claims information, plan eligibility, payment information and the use of electronic signatures, and privacy and electronic security of individually identifiable health information. Each set of HIPAA regulations requires health care providers, including us, in addition to health plans and clearinghouses, to develop and maintain policies and procedures with respect to protected health information that is used or disclosed. If we do not comply with existing or new laws and regulations related to patient health information, we could be subject to criminal or civil sanctions. New health information standards, whether implemented pursuant to HIPAA or otherwise, could have a significant effect on the manner in which we handle health care related data and communicate with payors, and the cost of complying with these standards could be significant. WE MAY UNDERTAKE ACQUISITIONS THAT COULD SUBJECT US TO UNANTICIPATED LIABILITIES AND THAT COULD FAIL TO ACHIEVE EXPECTED BENEFITS. Our strategy is to increase our market share through internal growth and strategic acquisitions. Consideration for the acquisitions has generally consisted of cash, unsecured non-interest bearing obligations and the assumption of certain liabilities. The implementation of an acquisition strategy entails certain risks, including inaccurate assessment of disclosed liabilities, the existence of undisclosed liabilities, regulatory compliance issues associated with the acquired business, entry into markets in which we may have limited or no experience, diversion of management’s attention and human resources from our underlying business, difficulties in integrating the operations of an acquired business or in realizing anticipated efficiencies and cost savings, failure to retain key management or operating personnel of the acquired business, and an increase in indebtedness and a limitation in the ability to access additional capital on favorable terms. The successful integration of an acquired business may be dependent on the size of the acquired business, condition of the customer billing records, and complexity of system conversions and execution of the integration plan by local management. If we do not successfully integrate the acquired business, the acquisition could fail to achieve its expected revenue contribution or there could be delays in the billing and collection of claims for services rendered to customers, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results. WE FACE INTENSE NATIONAL, REGIONAL AND LOCAL COMPETITION AND IF WE ARE UNABLE TO COMPETE SUCCESSFULLY, WE WILL LOSE REVENUES AND OUR BUSINESS WILL SUFFER. The home respiratory market is a fragmented and highly competitive industry. We compete against other national providers and, by our estimate, more than 2,000 local and regional providers. Home respiratory companies compete primarily on the basis of service rather than price since reimbursement levels are established by Medicare and Medicaid or by the individual determinations of private health plans. Our ability to compete successfully and to increase our referrals of new customers are highly dependent upon our reputation within each local health care market for providing responsive, professional and high-quality service and achieving strong customer satisfaction. Given the relatively low barriers to entry in the home respiratory market, we expect that the industry will become increasingly competitive in the future. Increased 15 Table of Contents competition in the future could limit our ability to attract and retain key operating personnel and achieve continued growth in our core business. INCREASES IN OUR COSTS COULD ERODE OUR PROFIT MARGINS AND SUBSTANTIALLY REDUCE OUR NET INCOME AND CASH FLOWS. Cost containment in the health care industry, fueled, in part, by federal and state government budgetary shortfalls, is likely to result in constant or decreasing reimbursement amounts for our equipment and services. As a result, we must control our operating cost levels, particularly labor and related costs, which account for a significant component of our operating costs and expenditures. We compete with other health care providers to attract and retain qualified or skilled personnel. We also compete with various industries for administrative and service employees. Since reimbursement rates are established by fee schedules mandated by Medicare, Medicaid and private payors, we are not able to offset the effects of general inflation in labor and related cost components, if any, through increases in prices for our equipment and services. Consequently, such cost increases could erode our profit margins and reduce our net income. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 