D. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Before making an investment decision with respect to our common shares, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report. Additional risks not currently known by us or that we consider immaterial at the present time may also impair our business, financial condition, prospects or results of operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, prospects or results of operations would likely be affected. In that case, the trading price of our common shares could decline and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common shares. The risks set out below are not the only we currently face; other risks may arise in the future. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We might not be able to continue as a going concern. We have forecasted that our level of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, including the proceeds from the recent equity offering and financing commitment described below, will be sufficient to execute our current planned expenditures for the next 6-8 months without further investment and/or strategic alliances. We intend to continue to actively pursue additional funding and partnership opportunities to provide additional funding to execute our planned expenditures in the future, and although we believe that we will complete one or more arrangements in sufficient time to execute our planned expenditures without interruption, there can be no assurance that sufficient capital will be available to enable us to meet these continuing expenditures, or if the capital is available, that it will be available on terms acceptable to us. If we are unable to obtain sufficient financing on acceptable terms in order to meet our future operational needs, there is a significant doubt as to whether we will be able to continue as a going concern and realize on our assets and pay our liabilities as they fall due, in which case investors may lose their investment. We need to raise additional capital. We need to raise additional capital. To obtain the necessary capital, we must rely on some or all of the following: additional share issues, collaboration agreements or corporate partnerships and grants and tax credits to provide full or partial funding for our activities. We cannot assure you that additional funding will be available on terms that are acceptable to us or in amounts that will enable us to carry out our business plan. Our need for capital may require us to: • engage in equity financings that could result in significant dilution to existing investors; • delay or reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our development programs; • obtain funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to technologies, product candidates or products that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves; or license rights to technologies, product candidates or products on terms that are less favourable to us than might otherwise be available; • considerably reduce operations; or • cease our operations. 7 We have a history of operating losses. We expect to incur net losses and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. We have not been profitable since our inception in 1986. Under Canadian generally accepted accounting principles, we reported net losses (earnings) of $5.0 million, ($5.3 million) and $8.9 million and for the years ended May 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and as of May 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $189.1 million. To date we have only generated nominal revenues from the sale of Virulizin® in Mexico and revenues associated with the license agreement with ZOR. We stopped selling Virulizin® in Mexico in July 2005 and assigned the rights under the ZOR Agreement to TEMIC, as part of the consideration for our repurchase of secured convertible debentures in June 2009. We have not generated any other revenue from product sales to date and it is possible that we will never have sufficient product sales revenue to achieve profitability. We expect to continue to incur losses for at least the next several years as we or our collaborators and licensees pursue clinical trials and research and development efforts. To become profitable, we, either alone or with collaborators and licensees (which we currently do not have), must successfully develop, manufacture and market our current product candidates LOR-253 and LOR-2040 as well as continue to identify, develop, manufacture and market new product candidates. It is possible that we will never have significant product sales revenue or receive significant royalties on our licensed product candidates. If funding is insufficient at any time in the future, we may not be able to develop or commercialize our products, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. We are an early stage development company. We are at an early stage of development. Significant additional investment will be necessary to complete the development of any of our products. Pre-clinical and clinical trial work must be completed before our products could be ready for use within the market that we have identified. We may fail to develop any products, to obtain regulatory approvals, to enter clinical trials or to commercialize any products. We do not know whether any of our potential product development efforts will prove to be effective, meet applicable regulatory standards, obtain the requisite regulatory approvals, be capable of being manufactured at a reasonable cost or be accepted in the marketplace. The product candidates we are currently developing are not expected to be commercially viable for several years and we may encounter unforeseen difficulties or delays in commercializing our product candidates. In addition, our products may cause undesirable side effects. Our product candidates require significant funding to reach regulatory approval assuming positive clinical results. Such funding will be very difficult, or impossible to raise in the public markets or through partnerships. If such funding or partnerships are not attainable, the development of these product candidates maybe significantly delayed or stopped altogether. The announcement of such delay or discontinuation of development may have a negative impact on our share price. We have indemnified our predecessor, Old Lorus, and its directors, officers and employees in respect of the Arrangement. In connection with the reorganization that we undertook in fiscal 2008, we have agreed to indemnify our predecessor, Old Lorus, and its directors, officers and employees from and against all damages, losses, expenses (including fines and penalties), other third party costs and legal expenses, to which any of them may be subject arising out of any matter occurring: 8 • prior to, at or after the effective time of the Arrangement, and directly or indirectly relating to any of the assets of Old Lorus transferred to us pursuant to the Arrangement (including losses for income, sales, excise and other taxes arising in connection with the transfer of any such asset) or conduct of the business prior to the effective time of the Arrangement; • prior to, at or after the effective time as a result of any and all interests, rights, liabilities and other matters relating to the assets transferred by Old Lorus to usunder the Arrangement; and • prior to or at the effective time of the Arrangement and directly or indirectly relating to, with certain exceptions, any of the activities of Old Lorus or the Arrangement. This indemnification could result in significant liability to us. We may be unable to obtain partnerships for one or more of our product candidates, which could curtail future development and negatively affect our share price. In addition, our partners might not satisfy their contractual responsibilities or devote sufficient resources to our partnership. Our strategy for the research, development and commercialization of our products requires entering into various arrangements with corporate collaborators, licensers, licensees and others, and our commercial success is dependent upon these outside parties performing their respective contractual responsibilities. The amount and timing of resources that such third parties will devote to these activities may not be within our control. We cannot assure you that such parties will perform their obligations as expected. We also cannot assure you that our collaborators will devote adequate resources to our programs. In addition, we could become involved in disputes with our collaborators, which could result in a delay or termination of the related development programs or result in litigation. We intend to seek additional collaborative arrangements to develop and commercialize some of our products. We may not be able to negotiate collaborative arrangements on favourable terms, or at all, in the future, or that our current or future collaborative arrangements will be successful. If we cannot negotiate collaboration, licence or partnering agreements, we may never achieve profitability. Clinical trials are long, expensive and uncertain processes and Health Canada or the FDA may ultimately not approve any of our product candidates. We may never develop any commercial drugs or other products that generate revenues. None of our product candidates has received regulatory approval for commercial use and sale in North America. We cannot market a pharmaceutical product in any jurisdiction until it has completed thorough preclinical testing and clinical trials in addition to that jurisdiction’s extensive regulatory approval process. In general, significant research and development and clinical studies are required to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our product candidates before we can submit any regulatory applications. Clinical trials are long, expensive and uncertain processes. Clinical trials may not be commenced or completed on schedule, and Health Canada or the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) or any other regulatory body may not ultimately approve our product candidates for commercial sale. The clinical trials of any of our drug candidates could be unsuccessful, which would prevent us from advancing, commercializing or partnering the drug. Even if the results of our preclinical studies or clinical trials are initially positive, it is possible that we will obtain different results in the later stages of drug development or that results seen in clinical trials will not continue with longer term treatment. Positive results in early Phase I or Phase II clinical trials may not be repeated in larger Phase II or Phase III clinical trials. For example, results of our Phase III clinical trial of Virulizin® did not meet the primary endpoint of the study despite promising preclinical and early stage clinical data. All of our potential drug candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. Preparing, submitting and advancing applications for regulatory approval is complex, expensive and time intensive and entails significant uncertainty. A commitment of substantial resources to conduct time-consuming research, preclinical studies and clinical trials will be required if we are to complete development of our products. 9 Clinical trials of our products require that we identify and enrol a large number of patients with the illness under investigation. We may not be able to enrol a sufficient number of appropriate patients to complete our clinical trials in a timely manner particularly in smaller indications such as acute myeloid leukemia. If we experience difficulty in enrolling a sufficient number of patients to conduct our clinical trials, we may need to delay or terminate ongoing clinical trials and will not accomplish objectives material to our success that could affect the price of our common shares. Delays in planned patient enrolment or lower than anticipated event rates in our current clinical trials or future clinical trials may result in increased costs, program delays, or both. In addition, unacceptable toxicities or adverse side effects may occur at any time in the course of preclinical studies or human clinical trials or, if any product candidates are successfully developed and approved for marketing, during commercial use of any approved products. The appearance of any such unacceptable toxicities or adverse side effects could interrupt, limit, delay or abort the development of any of our product candidates or, if previously approved, necessitate their withdrawal from the market. Furthermore, disease resistance or other unforeseen factors may limit the effectiveness of our potential products. Our failure to develop safe, commercially viable drugs would substantially impair our ability to generate revenues and sustain our operations and would materially harm our business and adversely affect our share price. We may never achieve profitability. As a result of intense competition and technological change in the pharmaceutical industry, the marketplace may not accept our products or product candidates, and we may not be able to compete successfully against other companies in our industry and achieve profitability. Many of our competitors have: • drug products that have already been approved or are in development, and operate large, well-funded research and development programs in these fields; • substantially greater financial and management resources, stronger intellectual property positions and greater manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities, areas in which we have limited or no experience; and • significantly greater experience than we do in undertaking preclinical testing and clinical trials of new or improved pharmaceutical products and obtaining required regulatory approvals. Consequently, our competitors may obtain Health Canada, FDA and other regulatory approvals for product candidates sooner and may be more successful in manufacturing and marketing their products than we or our collaborators are. Our competitor’s existing and future products, therapies and technological approaches will compete directly with the products we seek to develop. Current and prospective competing products may provide greater therapeutic benefits for a specific problem or may offer easier delivery or comparable performance at a lower cost; Any product candidate that we develop and that obtains regulatory approval must then compete for market acceptance and market share. Our product candidates may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payers and the medical community. Further, any products we develop may become obsolete before we recover any expenses we incurred in connection with the development of these products. As a result, we may never achieve profitability. If we fail to attract and retain key employees, the development and commercialization of our products may be adversely affected. We depend on the principal members of our scientific and management staff. If we lose any of these persons, our ability to develop products and become profitable could suffer. The risk of being unable to retain key personnel may be increased by the fact that we have not executed long-term employment contracts with our employees, except for our senior executives. Our future success will also depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified scientific and management personnel. We face competition for personnel from other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. 10 We may be unable to obtain patents to protect our technologies from other companies with competitive products, and patents of other companies could prevent us from manufacturing, developing or marketing our products. Patent protection: The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. The United States Patent and Trademark Office and many other patent offices in the world have not established a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims that they will allow in biotechnology patents. Allowable patentable subject matter and the scope of patent protection obtainable may differ between jurisdictions. If a patent office allows broad claims, the number and cost of patent interference proceedings in the United States, or analogous proceedings in other jurisdictions and the risk of infringement litigation may increase. If it allows narrow claims, the risk of infringement may decrease, but the value of our rights under our patents, licenses and patent applications may also decrease. The scope of the claims in a patent application can be significantly modified during prosecution before the patent is issued. Consequently, we cannot know whether our pending applications will result in the issuance of patents or, if any patents are issued, whether they will provide us with significant proprietary protection or will be circumvented, invalidated or found to be unenforceable. Until recently, patent applications in the United States were maintained in secrecy until the patents issued, and publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries. Patent applications filed in the United States after November 2000 generally will be published 18 months after the filing date unless the applicant certifies that the invention will not be the subject of a foreign patent application. In many other jurisdictions, such as Canada, patent applications are published 18 months from the priority date. We cannot assure you that, even if published, we will be aware of all such literature. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that the named inventors of our products and processes were the first to invent that product or process or that we were the first to pursue patent coverage for our inventions. Enforcement of intellectual property rights: Protection of the rights revealed in published patent applications can be complex, costly and uncertain. Our commercial success depends in part on our ability to maintain and enforce our proprietary rights. If third parties engage in activities that infringe our proprietary rights, our management’s focus will be diverted and we may incur significant costs in asserting our rights. We may not be successful in asserting our proprietary rights, which could result in our patents being held invalid or a court holding that the third party is not infringing, either of which would harm our competitive position. Others may design around our patented technology. We may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, European opposition proceedings, or other analogous proceedings in other parts of the world to determine priority of invention and the validity of patent rights granted or applied for, which could result in substantial cost and delay, even if the eventual outcome is favourable to us. We cannot assure you that our pending patent applications, if issued, would be held valid or enforceable. Trade secrets: We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and confidentiality provisions in our agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants to protect our intellectual property. However, these and other parties may not comply with the terms of their agreements with us, and we might be unable to adequately enforce our rights against these people or obtain adequate compensation for the damages caused by their unauthorized disclosure or use of our trade secrets or know how. Our trade secrets or those of our collaborators may become known or may be independently discovered by others. 11 See also “Business Overview - Intellectual Property and Protection of Confidential Information and Technology - Risks Relating to Intellectual Property.” Our products and product candidates may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which could increase our costs. Our success also depends on avoiding infringement of the proprietary technologies of others. In particular, there may be certain issued patents and patent applications claiming subject matter which we or our collaborators may be required to license in order to research, develop or commercialize at least some of our product candidates, including LOR-2040 and LOR-253. In addition, third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us based on our patents or other intellectual property rights. An adverse outcome in these proceedings could subject us to significant liabilities to third-parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third-parties or require us to cease or modify our use of the technology. If we are required to license such technology, we cannot assure you that a license under such patents and patent applications will be available on acceptable terms or at all. Further, we may incur substantial costs defending ourselves in lawsuits against charges of patent infringement or other unlawful use of another’s proprietary technology. If product liability claims are brought against us or we are unable to obtain or maintain product liability insurance, we may incur substantial liabilities that could reduce our financial resources. The clinical testing and commercial use of pharmaceutical products involves significant exposure to product liability claims. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials on humans; however, our insurance coverage may be insufficient to protect us against all product liability damages. Further, liability insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive and we might not be able to obtain or maintain product liability insurance in the future on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts to protect us against product liability damages. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in decreased demand for a future product, injury to reputation, withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers, loss of revenue, costs of litigation, distraction of management and substantial monetary awards to plaintiffs. Additionally, if we are required to pay a product liability claim, we may not have sufficient financial resources to complete development or commercialization of any of our product candidates and our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. We have no manufacturing capabilities. We depend on third parties, including a number of sole suppliers, for manufacturing and storage of our product candidates used in our clinical trials. Product introductions may be delayed or suspended if the manufacture of our products is interrupted or discontinued. Other than limited quantities for research purposes, we do not have manufacturing facilities to produce supplies of LOR-2040, LOR-253 or any of our other product candidates to support clinical trials or commercial launch of these products, if they are approved. We are dependent on third parties for manufacturing and storage of our product candidates. If we are unable to contract for a sufficient supply of our product candidates on acceptable terms, or if we encounter delays or difficulties in the manufacturing process or our relationships with our manufacturers, we may not have sufficient product to conduct or complete our clinical trials or support preparations for the commercial launch of our product candidates, if approved. Our operations involve hazardous materials and we must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, radioactive compounds and other potentially dangerous chemicals and biological agents. Although we believe our safety procedures for these materials comply with governmental standards, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. We currently have insurance, in amounts and on terms typical for companies in businesses that are similarly situated that could cover all or a portion of a damage claim arising from our use of hazardous and other materials. However, if an accident or environmental discharge occurs, and we are held liable for any resulting damages, the associated liability could exceed our insurance coverage and our financial resources. 12 RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON SHARES Our share price has been and may continue to be volatile and an investment in our common shares could suffer a decline in value. You should consider an investment in our common shares as risky and invest only if you can withstand a significant loss and wide fluctuations in the market value of your investment. We receive only limited attention by securities analysts and frequently experience an imbalance between supply and demand for our common shares. The market price of our common shares has been highly volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile. Factors affecting our common share price include but are not limited to: • our financial position and doubt as to whether we will be able to continue as a going concern; • our ability to raise additional capital; • the progress of our clinical trials; • our ability to obtain partners and collaborators to assist with the future development of our products; • general market conditions; • announcements of technological innovations or new product candidates by us, our collaborators or our competitors; • fluctuations in our operating results; • published reports by securities analysts; • developments in patent or other intellectual property rights; • the cash and short-term investments held us and our ability to secure future financing; • public concern as to the safety and efficacy of drugs that we and our competitors develop; and • governmental regulation and changes in medical and pharmaceutical product reimbursement policies. Future sales of our common shares by us or by our existing shareholders could cause our share price to fall. The issuance of common shares by us could result in significant dilution in the equity interest of existing shareholders and adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Sales by existing shareholders of a large number of our common shares in the public market and the issuance of shares issued in connection with strategic alliances, or the perception that such additional sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. There is no assurance that an active trading market in our common shares will be sustained. Our common shares are listed for trading on the TSX. However, there can be no assurance that an active trading market in our common shares on the stock exchange will be sustained or that we will be able to maintain our listing. There is a limited market for our common shares in the United States. There is currently a limited market for our common shares in the United States. If a shareholder in the United States is unable to sell their common shares in the United States, they will be forced to sell their common shares over the TSX, which may expose the selling shareholder to currency exchange risk. In addition, because we are not listed on any United States stock exchange, resales of our common shares to United States residents under state securities or “blue sky” laws are likely to be limited to unsolicited transactions. Our outstanding common shares could be subject to dilution. The exercise of stock options and warrants already issued by us, and the issuance of other additional securities in the future, could result in dilution in the value of our common shares and the voting power represented by the common shares. Furthermore, to the extent holders of our stock options or other securities exercise their securities and then sell the common shares they receive, our share price may decrease due to the additional amount of our common shares available in the market. 13 It may be difficult for non-Canadian investors to obtain and enforce judgments against us because of our Canadian incorporation and presence. We are a corporation existing under the laws of Canada. Most of our directors and officers, and all of the experts named in this prospectus and the documents incorporated by reference into this prospectus, are residents of Canada, and all or a substantial portion of their assets, and a substantial portion of our assets, are located outside the United States. Consequently, although we have appointed an agent for service of process in the United States, it may be difficult for holders of these securities who reside in the United States to effect service within the United States upon those directors and officers, and the experts who are not residents of the United States. It may also be difficult for holders of these securities who reside in the United States to realize in the United States upon judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon our civil liability and the civil liability of our directors, officers and experts under the United States federal securities laws. Investors should not assume that Canadian courts (i) would enforce judgments of United States courts obtained in actions against us or such directors, officers or experts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws or the securities or “blue sky” laws of any state within the United States or (ii) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or such directors, officers or experts predicated upon the United States federal securities laws or any such state securities or “blue sky” laws. In addition, we have been advised by our Canadian counsel that in normal circumstances, only civil judgments and not other rights arising from United States securities legislation are enforceable in Canada and that the protections afforded by Canadian securities laws may not be available to investors in the United States. We are likely a “passive foreign investment company” which will likely have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences for U.S. shareholders. U.S. investors in our common shares should be aware that the Company believes it was classified as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) during the tax year ended May 31, 2011, and based on current business plans and financial expectations, the Company believes that it will be a PFIC for the current tax year. If the Company is a PFIC for any year during a U.S. shareholder’s holding period, then such U.S. shareholder generally will be required to treat any gain realized upon a disposition of common shares, or any so-called “excess distribution” received on its common shares, as ordinary income, and to pay an interest charge on a portion of such gain or distributions, unless the shareholder makes a timely and effective “qualified electing fund” election (“QEF Election”) or a “mark-to-market” election with respect to the common shares. A U.S. shareholder who makes a QEF Election generally must report on a current basis its share of the Company’s net capital gain and ordinary earnings for any year in which the Company is a PFIC, whether or not the Company distributes any amounts to its shareholders. However, U.S. shareholders should be aware that there can be no assurance that we will satisfy record keeping requirements that apply to a qualified electing fund, or that we will supply U.S. shareholders with information that such U.S. shareholders require to report under the QEF Election rules, in the event that we are a PFIC and a U.S. shareholder wishes to make a QEF Election. Thus, U.S. shareholders may not be able to make a QEF Election with respect to their common shares. A U.S. shareholder who makes the mark-to-market election generally must include as ordinary income each year the excess of the fair market value of the common shares over the taxpayer’s basis therein. This paragraph is qualified in its entirety by the discussion below under the heading “Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations.” Each U.S. shareholder should consult its own tax advisor regarding the U.S. federal, U.S. federal alternative minimum, U.S. federal estate and gift, U.S. state and local, and foreign tax consequences of the PFIC rules and the acquisition, ownership, and disposition of our common shares. 