Risk Factors” underlying those forward-looking statements prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described herein. These forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this Transition Report or, in the case of documents incorporated by reference herein, as of the date of such documents, and we do not intend, and do not assume any obligation, to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. Such statements may not prove to be accurate as actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements. Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and accordingly investors are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements due to the inherent uncertainty therein. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management of the Company to predict all of these factors or to assess in advance the impact of each such factor on the Company’s business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. iv PART I Item 1. Identity of Directors, Senior Management and Advisers Not applicable. Item 2. Offer Statistics and Expected Timetable Not applicable. Item 3. Key Information A. Selected financial data. The following tables present our selected consolidated financial data. You should read these tables in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in Item 18 of this Transition Report and the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in Item 5 of this Transition Report. The selected consolidated financial information set forth below has been derived from the Company's audited consolidated financial statements that are prepared in accordance with IFRS, which differ in certain respects from the principles the Company would have followed had its consolidated financial statements been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The selected audited consolidated financial information should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto. Effective July 17, 2014, we changed our fiscal year end from May 31 to December 31. As a result of that change, the current transition period is for the seven months ended December 31, 2014. The following table presents a summary of our consolidated statements of operations derived from our audited consolidated financial statements for the seven months ended December 31, 2014 and fiscal years ended May 31, 2014, 2013, 2012 and 2011. Consolidated statements of operations data (In thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2014 May 31, 2014 May 31, 2013 May 31, 2012 May 31, 2011 In accordance with IFRS Revenue $— $— $— $— $— Research and development $2,404 $3,015 $3,317 $2,170 $2,518 General and administrative $5,588 $7,355 $2,272 $2,430 $2,420 Operating expenses $7,992 $10,370 $5,589 $4,600 $4,938 Finance expense $58 $259 $6 $20 $71 Finance income $(279) $(76) $(30) $(6) $(14) Net loss $(7,771) $(10,553) $(5,565) $(4,614) $(4,995) Basic and diluted loss per Common Share (post-consolidation) $(0.67) $(2.02) $(1.58) $(2.76) $(4.56) Weighted average number of Common Shares outstanding (post-consolidation) 11,605 5,216 3,521 1,688 1,096 The following table presents a summary of our consolidated balance sheets as at December 31, 2014 and May 31, 2014, 2013, 2012 and 2011. We report our consolidated financial statements in Canadian (“CDN”) dollars. In this Transition Report, except where otherwise indicated, all amounts are stated in CDN dollars. 1 Consolidated balance sheet data (In thousands, except per share data) As at December 31 As at May 31, 2014 2014 2013 2012 2011 In accordance with IFRS Cash and cash equivalents $14,365 $19,367 $653 $320 $911 Investments $16,180 $11,019 $— $— $— Total assets $31,600 $30,899 $1,035 $668 $1,398 Total liabilities $2,328 $2,460 $1,816 $2,696 $1,159 Total shareholders’ equity (deficit) $29,272 $28,439 $(781) $(2,028) $239 Number of Common Shares outstanding (post- consolidation) 11,700 10,388 3,521 1,769 1,307 Dividends paid on Common Shares — — — — — The following table sets out the average exchange rates of CDN$1.00 for US$1.00 for the following periods as taken from the Bank of Canada’s website. Period Average Close Seven Months Ended December 31, 2014 1.1080 Fiscal Year Ended May 31, 2014 1.0662 Fiscal Year Ended May 31, 2013 1.0042 Fiscal Year Ended May 31, 2012 1.0005 Fiscal Year Ended May 31, 2011 1.0066 The following table sets forth the high and low exchange rates of CDN$1.00 for US$1.00 for each month during the previous six months. Period High Low December 2014 $1.1672 $1.1397 November 2014 $1.1452 $1.1268 October 2014 $1.1385 $1.1175 September 2014 $1.1219 $1.0884 August 2014 $1.0985 $1.0864 July 2014 $1.0930 $1.0660 On March 3, 2015, the noon buying rate of CDN$1.00 for US$1.00, as per the Bank of Canada was CDN$1.00 = US$0.8031. B. Capitalization and indebtedness. Notapplicable. C. Reasons for the offer and use of proceeds. Notapplicable. D. Risk factors. Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Before making an investment decision with respect to our Common Shares, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Transition Report. Additional risks not currently known by us or that we consider immaterial at the present time may also impair our business, financial condition, prospects or results of operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, prospects or results of operations would likely be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our Common Shares could decline and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our Common Shares. The risks set out below are not the only risks and uncertainties we currently face; other risks may arise in the future. 2 RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We are an early stage development company. We are at an early stage of development. In the past five years, none of our potential products has obtained regulatory approval for commercial use and sale in any country and as such, no significant revenues have resulted from product sales. Significant additional investment will be necessary to complete the development of any of our product candidates. Preclinical and clinical trial work must be completed before our potential products could be ready for use within the markets that we have identified. We may fail to develop any products, obtain regulatory approvals, enter clinical trials or commercialize any products. We do not know whether any of our potential product development efforts will prove to be effective, meet applicable regulatory standards, obtain the requisite regulatory approvals, be capable of being manufactured at a reasonable cost or be accepted in the marketplace. We also do not know whether sales, license fees or related royalties will allow us to recoup any investment we make in the commercialization of our products. The product candidates we are currently developing are not expected to be commercially viable for at least the next several years and we may encounter unforeseen difficulties or delays in commercializing our product candidates. In addition, our potential products may not be effective or may cause undesirable side effects. Our product candidates require significant funding to reach regulatory approval assuming positive clinical results. For example, our lead product candidate APTO-253, has begun enrolment in a Phase I clinical trial in patients with relapsed or refractory hematologic malignancies. Additional funding or a partnership may be necessary to complete, if required, a Phase II or Phase III clinical trial. Such funding may be very difficult, or impossible to raise in the public or private markets or through partnerships. If funding or partnerships are not attainable, the development of these product candidates may be significantly delayed or stopped altogether. The announcement of a delay or discontinuation of development would likely have a negative impact on our share price. We need to raise additional capital. We have an ongoing need to raise additional capital. To obtain the necessary capital, we must rely on some or all of the following: additional share issues, debt issuances (including promissory notes), collaboration agreements or corporate partnerships and grants and tax credits to provide full or partial funding for our activities. Additional funding may not be available on terms that are acceptable to us or in amounts that will enable us to carry out our business plan. Our need for capital may require us to: ·engage in equity financings that could result in significant dilution to existing investors; ·delay or reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our development programs; ·obtain funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to technologies, product candidates or products that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves; or ·license rights to technologies, product candidates or products on terms that are less favourable to us than might otherwise be available; ·considerably reduce operations; or ·cease our operations. 3 We have a history of operating losses. We expect to incur net losses and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. We have not been profitable since our inception in 1986. We reported net losses of $7.8 million in the 7 months ended December 31, 2014 and $10.6 million and $5.6 million for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, and as of December 31, 2014, we had an accumulated deficit of $218 million. We have not generated any significant revenue to date and it is possible that we will never have sufficient product sales revenue to achieve profitability. We expect to continue to incur losses for at least the next several years as we or our collaborators and licensees pursue clinical trials and research and development efforts. To become profitable, we, either alone or with our collaborators and licensees, must successfully develop, manufacture and market our current product candidate APTO-253 as well as continue to identify, develop, manufacture and market new product candidates. It is possible that we will never have significant product sales revenue or receive royalties on our licensed product candidates. If funding is insufficient at any time in the future, we may not be able to develop or commercialize our products, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. Clinical trials are long, expensive and uncertain processes and Health Canada or the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) may ultimately not approve any of our product candidates. We may never develop any commercial drugs or other products that generate revenues. In the past five years, none of our product candidates has received regulatory approval for commercial use and sale in North America. We cannot market a pharmaceutical product in any jurisdiction until it has completed thorough preclinical testing and clinical trials in addition to that jurisdiction’s extensive regulatory approval process. Approval in one country does not assure approval in another country. In general, significant research and development and clinical studies are required to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our product candidates before we can submit any regulatory applications. Clinical trials are long, expensive and uncertain processes. Clinical trials may not be commenced or completed on schedule and Health Canada or the FDA or any other regulatory body may not ultimately approve our product candidates for commercial sale. The clinical trials of any of our drug candidates could be unsuccessful, which would prevent us from advancing, commercializing or partnering the drug. Even if the results of our preclinical studies or clinical trials are initially positive, it is possible that we will obtain different results in the later stages of drug development or that results seen in clinical trials will not continue with longer term treatment. Positive results in Phase I clinical trials may not be repeated in larger Phase II or Phase III clinical trials. Our preclinical studies and clinical trials may not generate positive results that will allow us to move towards the commercial use and sale of our product candidates. Furthermore, negative preclinical or clinical trial results may cause our business, financial condition, or results of operations to be materially adversely affected. For example, our lead product candidate APTO-253 has entered a Phase Ib testing in patients with relapsed or refractory hematologic malignancies for which there is a long development path ahead that will take many years to complete and is prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. Preparing, submitting and advancing applications for regulatory approval is complex, expensive and time intensive and entails significant uncertainty. A commitment of substantial resources to conduct time-consuming research, preclinical studies and clinical trials is required if we are to complete development of our products. Later stage clinical trials of our products require that we identify and enroll a large number of patients with the illness under investigation. We may not be able to enroll a sufficient number of appropriate patients to complete our clinical trials in a timely manner, particularly in smaller indications and indications where this is significant competition for patients. If we experience difficulty in enrolling a sufficient number of patients to conduct our clinical trials, we may need to delay or terminate ongoing clinical trials and will not accomplish objectives material to our success. Delays in planned patient enrolment or lower than anticipated event rates in our current clinical trials or future clinical trials also may result in increased costs, program delays, or both. 4 In addition, unacceptable toxicities or adverse side effects may occur at any time in the course of preclinical studies or human clinical trials or, if any product candidates are successfully developed and approved for marketing, during commercial use of any approved products. The appearance of any unacceptable toxicities or adverse side effects could interrupt, limit, delay or abort the development of any of our product candidates or, if previously approved, necessitate their withdrawal from the market. Furthermore, disease resistance or other unforeseen factors may limit the effectiveness of our potential products. Our failure to develop safe, commercially viable drugs would substantially impair our ability to generate revenues and sustain our operations and would materially harm our business and adversely affect our share price. We may not achieve our projected development goals in the time frames we announce and expect. We set goals for, and make public statements regarding, the expected timing of the accomplishment of objectives material to our success, such as the commencement and completion of clinical trials, the partnership of our product candidates and our ability to secure the financing necessary to continue the development of our product candidates. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to factors within and beyond our control, such as delays or failures in our clinical trials, the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process, market conditions and interest by partners in our product candidates among other things. Our clinical trials may not be completed, and we may not make regulatory submissions or receive regulatory approvals as planned, or that we will secure partnerships for any of our product candidates. Any failure to achieve one or more of these milestones as planned would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of intense competition and technological change in the biotechnical and pharmaceutical industries, the marketplace may not accept our products or product candidates, and we may not be able to compete successfully against other companies in our industry and achieve profitability. Many of our competitors have: ·drug products that have already been approved or are in development, and operate large, well-funded research and development programs in the biotechnical and pharmaceutical fields; ·substantially greater financial, technical and management resources, stronger intellectual property positions and greater manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities, areas in which we have limited or no experience; and ·significantly greater experience than we do in undertaking preclinical testing and clinical trials of new or improved pharmaceutical products and obtaining required regulatory approvals. Consequently, our competitors may obtain Health Canada, FDA and other regulatory approvals for product candidates sooner and may be more successful in manufacturing and marketing their products than we or our collaborators are. Our competitor’s existing and future products, therapies and technological approaches will compete directly with the products we seek to develop. Current and prospective competing products may be more effective than our existing and future products insofar as they may provide greater therapeutic benefits for a specific problem or may offer easier delivery or comparable performance at a lower cost. Any product candidate that we develop and that obtains regulatory approval must then compete for market acceptance and market share. Our products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payers, insurers, the medical community and other stakeholders. Further, any products we develop may become obsolete before we recover any expenses we incurred in connection with the development of these products. As a result, we may never achieve profitability. If we fail to attract and retain key employees, the development and commercialization of our products may be adversely affected. 5 We depend on the principal members of our scientific and management staff. If we lose any of these persons, our ability to develop products and become profitable could suffer. The risk of being unable to retain key personnel may be increased by the fact that we have not executed long-term employment contracts with our employees, except for our senior executives. Our future success will also depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified scientific and management personnel. We face competition for personnel from other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. We may be unable to obtain patents to protect our technologies from other companies with competitive products, and patents of other companies could prevent us from manufacturing, developing or marketing our products. Patent protection The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. The United States Patent and Trademark Office and many other patent offices in the world have not established a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims that they will allow in biotechnology patents. Allowable patentable subject matter and the scope of patent protection obtainable may differ between jurisdictions. If a patent office allows broad claims, the number and cost of patent interference proceedings in the United States, or analogous proceedings in other jurisdictions and the risk of infringement litigation may increase. If it allows narrow claims, the risk of infringement may decrease, but the value of our rights under our patents, licenses and patent applications may also decrease. The scope of the claims in a patent application can be significantly modified during prosecution before the patent is issued. Consequently, we cannot know whether our pending applications will result in the issuance of patents or, if any patents are issued, whether they will provide us with significant proprietary protection or will be circumvented, invalidated or found to be unenforceable. Publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries. Patent applications filed in the United States generally will be published 18 months after the filing date unless the applicant certifies that the invention will not be the subject of a foreign patent application. In many other jurisdictions, such as Canada, patent applications are published 18 months from the priority date. We may not be aware of such literature. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that the named inventors of our products and processes were the first to invent that product or process or that we were the first to pursue patent coverage for our inventions. In addition, U.S. patent laws may change which could prevent or limit us from filing patent applications or patent claims in the United States to protect our products and technologies or limit the exclusivity periods that are available to patent holders for U.S. patents. For example, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, (the “Leahy-Smith Act”) was signed into law in 2011 and includes a number of significant changes to U.S. patent law. These include changes to transition from a “first-to-invent” system to a “first-to-file” system and to the way issued patents are challenged. These changes may favour larger and more established companies that have more resources to devote to patent application filing and prosecution. It is not clear what, if any, impact the Leahy-Smith Act will ultimately have on the cost of prosecuting our patent applications in the United States, our ability to obtain patents in the United States based on our discoveries and our ability to enforce or defend our U.S. issued patents. Enforcement of intellectual property rights Protection of the rights revealed in published patent applications can be complex, costly and uncertain. Our commercial success depends in part on our ability to maintain and enforce our proprietary rights. If third parties engage in activities that infringe our proprietary rights, our management’s focus will be diverted and we may incur significant costs in asserting our rights. We may not be successful in asserting our proprietary rights, which could result in our patents being held invalid or a court holding that the third party is not infringing, either of which would harm our competitive position. 6 Others may design around our patented technology. We may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, European opposition proceedings, or other analogous proceedings in other parts of the world to determine priority of invention and the validity of patent rights granted or applied for, which could result in substantial cost and delay, even if the eventual outcome is favourable to us. Our pending patent applications, even if issued, may not be held valid or enforceable. Trade secrets We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and confidentiality provisions in our agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants to protect our intellectual property. However, these and other parties may not comply with the terms of their agreements with us, and we might be unable to adequately enforce our rights or obtain adequate compensation for the damages caused by unauthorized disclosure or use of our trade secrets or know how. Our trade secrets or those of our collaborators also may be independently discovered by others. Our products and product candidates may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, or others may infringe on our intellectual property rights which could increase our costs. Our success also depends on avoiding infringement of the proprietary technologies of others. In particular, there may be certain issued patents and patent applications claiming subject matter which we or our collaborators may be required to license in order to research, develop or commercialize APTO-253, our lead product candidate. In addition, third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us. An adverse outcome in these proceedings could subject us to significant liabilities to third-parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third-parties or require us to cease or modify our use of the technology. If we are required to license third-party technology, a license under such patents and patent applications may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. Further, we may incur substantial costs defending ourselves in lawsuits against charges of patent infringement or other unlawful use of another’s proprietary technology. We may also need to bring claims against others who we believe are infringing our rights in order to become or remain competitive and successful. Any such claims can be time consuming and expensive to pursue. If product liability, clinical trial liability or environmental liability claims are brought against us or we are unable to obtain or maintain product liability, clinical trial or environmental liability insurance, we may incur substantial liabilities that could reduce our financial resources. The clinical testing and commercial use of pharmaceutical products involves significant exposure to product liability, clinical trial liability, environmental liability and other risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of our products. These liabilities, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials on humans; however, our insurance coverage may be insufficient to protect us against all product liability damages. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in decreased demand for a future product, injury to reputation, withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers, loss of revenue, costs of litigation, distraction of management and substantial monetary awards to plaintiffs. Additionally, if we are required to pay a product liability claim, we may not have sufficient financial resources to complete development or commercialization of any of our product candidates and our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. In general, insurance will not protect us against some of our own actions, such as negligence. As the Company’s development activities progress towards the commercialization of product candidates, our liability coverage may not be adequate, and the Company may not be able to obtain adequate product liability insurance coverage at a reasonable cost, if at all. Even if the Company obtains product liability insurance, its financial position may be materially adversely affected by a product liability claim. A product liability claim could also significantly harm the Company’s reputation and delay market acceptance of its product candidates. Additionally, product recalls may be issued at the direction of the FDA, other government agencies or other companies having regulatory control for pharmaceutical sales. If a product recall occurs in the future, such a recall could adversely affect our business, financial condition or reputation. 7 We may be unable to obtain partnerships for our product candidates, which could curtail future development and negatively affect our share price. In addition, our partners might not satisfy their contractual responsibilities or devote sufficient resources to our partnership. Our strategy for the research, development and commercialization of our products requires entering into various arrangements with corporate collaborators, licensors, licensees and others, and our commercial success is dependent upon these outside parties performing their respective contractual responsibilities. The amount and timing of resources that such third parties will devote to these activities may not be within our control. These third parties may not perform their obligations as expected and our collaborators may not devote adequate resources to our programs. In addition, we could become involved in disputes with our collaborators, which could result in a delay or termination of the related development programs or result in litigation. We intend to seek additional collaborative arrangements to develop and commercialize some of our products. We may not be able to negotiate collaborative arrangements on favourable terms, or at all, in the future, and our current or future collaborative arrangements may not be successful. If we cannot negotiate collaboration, licence or partnering agreements, we may never achieve profitability and we may not be able to continue to develop our product candidates. Phase II and Phase III clinical trials for APTO-253 would require significant amounts of funding and such funding may not be available to us. Exchange rate risk We may be exposed to fluctuations of the Canadian dollar against certain other currencies because we publish our consolidated financial statements and hold our investments in Canadian dollars, while we incur many of our expenses in foreign currencies, primarily the United States dollar. Fluctuations in the value of currencies could cause us to incur currency exchange losses. We do not currently employ a hedging strategy against exchange rate risk. We cannot assert with any assurance that we will not suffer losses as a result of unfavorable fluctuations in the exchange rates between the Canadian dollar, the United States dollar and other currencies. We have agreed to indemnify our predecessor corporation Old Lorus and its directors, officers and employees. In connection with the reorganization that we undertook in July 2007, we have agreed to indemnify our predecessor, Old Lorus, and its directors, officers and employees from and against all damages, losses, expenses (including fines and penalties), other third party costs and legal expenses, to which any of them may be subject arising out of any matter occurring: ·prior to, at or after the effective time of the arrangement transaction, and directly or indirectly relating to any of the assets of Old Lorus transferred to us pursuant to the arrangement transaction (including losses for income, sales, excise and other taxes arising in connection with the transfer of any such asset) or conduct of the business prior to the effective time of the arrangement; ·prior to, at or after the effective time as a result of any and all interests, rights, liabilities and other matters relating to the assets transferred by Old Lorus to us under the arrangement; and ·prior to or at the effective time and directly or indirectly relating to, with certain exceptions, any of the activities of Old Lorus or the arrangement. This indemnification obligation could result in significant liability to us. To date no amount has been claimed on this indemnification obligation. Should a claim arise under this indemnification obligation it could result in significant liability to the Company which could have a negative impact on our liquidity, financial position, and ability to obtain future funding among other things. We have no manufacturing capabilities and face supply risks. We depend on third-parties, including a number of sole suppliers, for manufacturing and storage of our product candidates used in our clinical trials. Product introductions may be delayed or suspended if the manufacture of our products is interrupted or discontinued. 8 Other than limited quantities for research purposes, we do not have manufacturing facilities to produce supplies of APTO-253 or any of our other product candidates to support clinical trials or commercial launch of these products, if they are approved. We are dependent on third parties for manufacturing and storage of our product candidates. If the supply of necessary components is interrupted, components from alternative suppliers may not be available in sufficient volumes or at acceptable quality levels within required timeframes, if at all, to meet the needs of the Company. An inability to contract for a sufficient supply of our product candidates on acceptable terms, or delays or difficulties in the manufacturing process or our relationships with our manufacturers, may lead to us not having sufficient product to conduct or complete our clinical trials or support preparations for the commercial launch of our product candidates, if approved. This may lead to substantial lost revenue opportunity and contract liability to third parties. Extensive Government Regulation Government regulation is a significant factor in the development, production and marketing of the Company’s products. Research and development, testing, manufacture, marketing and sales of pharmaceutical products or related products are subject to extensive regulatory oversight, often in multiple jurisdictions, which may cause significant additional costs and/or delays in bringing products to market, and in turn, may cause significant losses to investors. The regulations applicable to the Company's product candidates may change. Even if granted, regulatory approvals may include significant limitations on the uses for which products can be marketed or may be conditioned on the conduct of post-marketing surveillance studies. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can, among other things, result in warning letters, the imposition of civil penalties or other monetary payments, delay in approving or refusal to approve a product candidate, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval, product recall or seizure, operating restrictions, interruptions of clinical trials or manufacturing, injunctions or criminal prosecution. In addition, regulatory agencies many not approve the labeling claims that are necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of the Company’s product candidates. Requirements for regulatory approval vary widely from country to country. Whether or not approved in Canada or the United States, regulatory authorities in other countries must approve a product prior to the commencement of marketing the product in those countries. The time required to obtain any such approval may be longer or shorter than in Canada or the United States. Approved drugs, as well as their manufacturers, are subject to continuing and ongoing review, and discovery of problems with these products or the failure to adhere to manufacturing or quality control requirements may result in regulatory restrictions being imposed. Risks Related to Our Common Shares Our share price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile and an investment in our Common Shares could suffer a decline in value. You should consider an investment in our Common Shares as risky and invest only if you can withstand a significant loss and wide fluctuations in the market value of your investment. We receive only limited attention by securities analysts and frequently experience an imbalance between supply and demand for our Common Shares. The market price of our Common Shares has been highly volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile. This leads to a heightened risk of securities litigation pertaining to such volatility. Factors affecting our Common Share price include but are not limited to: ·our ability to raise additional capital; ·the progress of our clinical trials: ·our ability to obtain partners and collaborators to assist with the future development of our products; ·general market conditions; ·announcements of technological innovations or new product candidates by us, our collaborators or our competitors; ·published reports by securities analysts; ·developments in patent or other intellectual property rights; 9 ·the cash and short term investments held by us and our ability to secure future financing; ·public concern as to the safety and efficacy of drugs that we and our competitors develop; and ·shareholder interest in our Common Shares. Future sales of our Common Shares by us or by our existing shareholders could cause our share price to fall. The issuance of Common Shares by us could result in significant dilution in the equity interest of existing shareholders and adversely affect the market price of our Common Shares. Sales by existing shareholders of a large number of our Common Shares in the public market and the issuance of shares issued in connection with strategic alliances, or the perception that such additional sales could occur, could cause the market price of our Common Shares to decline and have an undesirable impact on our ability to raise capital. We are susceptible to stress in the global economy and therefore, our business may be affected by the current and future global financial condition. If the increased level of volatility and market turmoil that have marked recent years continue, our operations, business, financial condition and the trading price of our Common Shares could be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, general economic conditions may have a great impact on us, including our ability to raise capital, our commercialization opportunities and our ability to establish and maintain arrangements with others for research, manufacturing, product development and sales. An active trading market in our Common Shares may not be sustained. Our Common Shares are listed for trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange (“TSX”) and the NASDAQ Capital Market (“NASDAQ”). However, an active trading market in our Common Shares on the stock exchanges may not be sustained and we may not be able to maintain our listings. It may be difficult for non-Canadian investors to obtain and enforce judgments against us because of our Canadian incorporation and presence. We are a corporation existing under the laws of Canada. Many of our directors and officers, and all of the experts named in this Transition Report and the documents incorporated by reference into this Transition Report, are residents of Canada, and all or a substantial portion of their assets, and a substantial portion of our assets, are located outside the United States. Consequently, although we have appointed an agent for service of process in the United States, it may be difficult for holders of our shares who reside in the United States to effect service within the United States upon our directors and officers and experts who are not residents of the United States. It may also be difficult for holders of our shares who reside in the United States to realize in the United States upon judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon our civil liability and the civil liability of our directors, officers and experts under the United States federal securities laws. Investors should not assume that Canadian courts (i) would enforce judgments of United States courts obtained in actions against us or our directors, officers or experts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws or the securities or “blue sky” laws of any state within the United States or (ii) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or our directors, officers or experts predicated upon the United States federal securities laws or any such state securities or “blue sky” laws. In addition, we have been advised by our Canadian counsel that in normal circumstances, only civil judgments and not other rights arising from United States securities legislation are enforceable in Canada and that the protections afforded by Canadian securities laws may not be available to investors in the United States. We are likely a “passive foreign investment company” which may have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences for U.S. shareholders. U.S. investors in our Common Shares should be aware that the Company believes it was classified as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) during the tax year ended December 31, 2014, and based on current business plans and financial expectations, the Company believes that it will be a PFIC for the current tax year and may be a PFIC in subsequent tax years. If the Company is a PFIC for any year during a U.S. shareholder’s holding period, then such U.S. shareholder generally will be required to treat any gain realized upon a disposition of Common Shares, or any so-called “excess distribution” received on its Common Shares, as ordinary income, and to pay an interest charge on a portion of such gain or distributions, unless the shareholder makes a timely and effective “qualified electing fund” election (“QEF election”) or a “mark-to-market” election with respect to the Common Shares. A U.S. shareholder who makes a QEF election generally must report on a current basis its share of the Company’s net capital gain and ordinary earnings for any year in which the Company is a PFIC, whether or not the Company distributes any amounts to its shareholders. However, U.S. shareholders should be aware that we do not intend to satisfy record keeping requirements that apply to a qualified electing fund, and we do not intend to supply U.S. shareholders with information that such U.S. shareholders require to report under the QEF election rules, in the event that we are a PFIC and a U.S. shareholder wishes to make a QEF election. Thus, U.S. shareholders should assume that they will not be able to make a QEF election with respect to their Common Shares. A U.S. shareholder who makes the mark-to-market election generally must include as ordinary income each year the excess of the fair market value of the Common Shares over the taxpayer’s basis therein. This paragraph is qualified in its entirety by the discussion below under the heading “Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations.” Each U.S. shareholder should consult its own tax advisor regarding the U.S. federal, U.S. local, and foreign tax consequences of the PFIC rules and the acquisition, ownership, and disposition of our Common Shares. 10 