D. Risk Factors Before making an investment decision with respect to our common shares, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report. Additional risks not currently known by us or that we consider immaterial at the present time may also impair our business, financial condition, prospects or results of operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, prospects or results of operations would likely be affected. In that case, the trading price of our common shares could decline and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common shares. The risks set out below are not the only we currently face; other risks may arise in the future. We have a history of operating losses. We expect to incur net losses and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. We have not been profitable since our inception in 1986. We reported net losses of $9.6 million; $17.9 million and $22.1 million for the years ended May 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. As of May 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $174.2 million. To date we have only generated nominal revenues from the sale of Virulizin® in Mexico and we stopped selling Virulizin® in Mexico in July 2005. We have not generated any other revenue from product sales to date and it is possible that we will never have sufficient product sales revenue to achieve profitability. We expect to continue to incur losses for at least the next several years as we or our collaborators and licensees pursue clinical trials and research and development efforts. To become profitable, we, either alone or with our collaborators and licensees, must successfully develop, manufacture and market our current product candidates, GTI-2040, as well as continue to identify, develop, manufacture and market new product candidates. It is possible that we will never have significant product sales revenue or receive significant royalties on our licensed product candidates. If funding is insufficient at any time in the future, we may not be able to develop or commercialize our products, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. Our current and anticipated operations, particularly our product development, requires substantial capital. We expect that our existing cash and cash equivalents, along with the funds available to us through the reorganization agreement described above, will sufficiently fund our current and planned operations through at least the next twelve months. However, our future capital needs will depend on many factors, including the extent to which we enter into collaboration agreements with respect to any of our proprietary product candidates, receive royalty and milestone payments from our possible collaborators and make progress in our internally funded research and development activities. Our capital requirements will also depend on the magnitude and scope of these activities, our ability to maintain existing and establish new collaborations, the terms of those collaborations, the success of our collaborators in developing and marketing products under their respective collaborations with us, the success of our contract manufacturers in producing clinical and commercial supplies of our product candidates on a timely basis and in sufficient quantities to meet our requirements, competing technological and market developments, the time and cost of obtaining regulatory approvals, the extent to which we choose to commercialize our future products through our own sales and marketing capabilities, the cost of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent and other rights and our success in acquiring and integrating complementary products, technologies or companies. We do not have committed external sources of funding and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional funds on acceptable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to: 6 • engage in equity financings that would be dilutive to current shareholders; • delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our development programs; or • obtain funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to technologies, product candidates or products that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves; or license rights to technologies, product candidates or products on terms that are less favourable to us than might otherwise be available. Our cash flow may not be sufficient to cover interest payments on our secured convertible debentures or to repay the debentures at maturity. Our ability to make interest payments, if required to be paid in cash, and to repay at maturity or refinance our prime plus 1% convertible debentures due in approximately 22 months (October 2009) will depend on our ability to generate or raise sufficient cash or refinance them. We have never generated positive annual cash flow from our operating activities, and we may not generate or sustain positive cash flows from operations in the future. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow will depend on our ability, or the ability of our strategic partners, to successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval for new products and to successfully market these products, as well as the results of our research and development efforts and other factors, including general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory conditions, many of which are outside of our control. We may violate one or more of the operational covenants related to our convertible debentures that could result in an event of default and the requirement for early payment of our convertible debentures. Our convertible debentures are subject to certain operational covenants. In the event that one of those covenants is breached by us, an event of default could be declared requiring the immediate payment of the face value of the debentures. This could result in our inability to pay and insolvency of the Company, a dilutive equity financing in attempt to raise funds to repay the debentures, or a significant reduction in cash available for us to use towards the development of our product candidates. We may be unable to obtain partnerships for one or more of our product candidates which could curtail future development and negatively impact our share price. Our product candidates require significant funding to reach regulatory approval upon positive clinical results. Such funding, in particular for Virulizin®, will be very difficult, or impossible to raise in the public markets. If such partnerships are not attainable, the development of these product candidates maybe significantly delayed or stopped altogether. The announcement of such delay or discontinuation of development may have a negative impact on our share price. In addition, our strategy for the research, development and commercialization of our products requires entering into various arrangements with corporate collaborators, licensers, licensees and others, and our commercial success is dependent upon these outside parties performing their respective contractual responsibilities. The amount and timing of resources that such third-parties will devote to these activities may not be within our control. We cannot assure you that such parties will perform their obligations as expected. We also cannot assure you that our collaborators will devote adequate resources to our programs. In addition, we could become involved in disputes with our collaborators, which could result in a delay or termination of the related development programs or result in litigation. We intend to seek additional collaborative arrangements to develop and commercialize some of our products. We may not be able to negotiate collaborative arrangements on favourable terms, or at all, in the future, or that our current or future collaborative arrangements will be successful. If we cannot negotiate collaboration, licence or partnering agreements, we may never achieve profitability. Clinical trials are long, expensive and uncertain processes and Health Canada or the FDA may ultimately not approve any of our product candidates. We may never develop any commercial drugs or other products that generate revenues. 7 None of our products has received regulatory approval for commercial use and sale in North America. We cannot market a pharmaceutical product in any jurisdiction until it has completed thorough preclinical testing and clinical trials in addition to that jurisdiction’s extensive regulatory approval process. In general, significant research and development and clinical studies are required to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our products before we can submit any regulatory applications. Clinical trials are long, expensive and uncertain processes. Clinical trials may not be commenced or completed on schedule, and Health Canada or the FDA may not ultimately approve our product candidates for commercial sale. Further, even if the results of our preclinical studies or clinical trials are initially positive, it is possible that we will obtain different results in the later stages of drug development or that results seen in clinical trials will not continue with longer term treatment. Drugs in late stages of clinical development may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through initial clinical testing. For example, positive results in early Phase I or Phase II clinical trials may not be repeated in larger Phase II or Phase III clinical trials. The results of our Phase III clinical trial of Virulizinâ did not meet the primary endpoint of the study despite promising preclinical and early stage clinical data. All of our potential drug candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. Preparing, submitting and advancing applications for regulatory approval is complex, expensive and time intensive and entails significant uncertainty. The results of our completed preclinical studies and clinical trials may not be indicative of future clinical trial results. A commitment of substantial resources to conduct time-consuming research, preclinical studies and clinical trials will be required if we are to complete development of our products. Clinical trials of our products require that we identify and enrol a large number of patients with the illness under investigation. We may not be able to enrol a sufficient number of appropriate patients to complete our clinical trials in a timely manner particularly in smaller indications such as Acute Myeloid Leukemia. If we experience difficulty in enrolling a sufficient number of patients to conduct our clinical trials, we may need to delay or terminate ongoing clinical trials and will not accomplish objectives material to our success that could affect the price of our common shares. Delays in planned patient enrolment or lower than anticipated event rates in our current clinical trials or future clinical trials may result in increased costs, program delays, or both. In addition, unacceptable toxicities or adverse side effects may occur at any time in the course of preclinical studies or human clinical trials or, if any products are successfully developed and approved for marketing, during commercial use of any approved products. The appearance of any such unacceptable toxicities or adverse side effects could interrupt, limit, delay or abort the development of any of our product candidates or, if previously approved, necessitate their withdrawal from the market. Furthermore, disease resistance or other unforeseen factors may limit the effectiveness of our potential products. The clinical trials of any of our drug candidates could be unsuccessful, which would prevent us from advancing, commercializing or partnering the drug. Our failure to develop safe, commercially viable drugs would substantially impair our ability to generate revenues and sustain our operations and would materially harm our business and adversely affect our share price. We may never achieve profitability. As a result of intense competition and technological change in the pharmaceutical industry, the marketplace may not accept our products or product candidates, and we may not be able to compete successfully against other companies in our industry and achieve profitability. Many of our competitors have drug products that have already been approved or are in development, and operate large, well-funded research and development programs in these fields. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and management resources, stronger intellectual property positions and greater manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities, areas in which we have limited or no experience. In addition, many of our competitors have significantly greater experience than we do in undertaking preclinical testing and clinical trials of new or improved pharmaceutical products and obtaining required regulatory approvals. Consequently, our competitors may obtain Health Canada, FDA and other regulatory approvals for product candidates sooner and may be more successful in manufacturing and marketing their products than we or our collaborators are. Existing and future products, therapies and technological approaches will compete directly with the products we seek to develop. 8 Current and prospective competing products may provide greater therapeutic benefits for a specific problem or may offer easier delivery or comparable performance at a lower cost. Any product candidate that we develop and that obtains regulatory approval must then compete for market acceptance and market share. Our product candidates may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payers and the medical community. Further, any products we develop may become obsolete before we recover any expenses we incurred in connection with the development of these products. As a result, we may never achieve profitability. If we fail to attract and retain key employees, the development and commercialization of our products may be adversely affected. We depend heavily on the principal members of our scientific and management staff. If we lose any of these persons, our ability to develop products and become profitable could suffer. The risk of being unable to retain key personnel may be increased by the fact that we have not executed long term employment contracts with our employees, except for our senior executives. Our future success will also depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified scientific and management personnel. We face competition for personnel from other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. We may be unable to obtain patents to protect our technologies from other companies with competitive products, and patents of other companies could prevent us from manufacturing, developing or marketing our products. Patent protection: The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. The United States (U.S.) Patent and Trademark Office and many other patent offices in the world have not established a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims that it will allow in biotechnology patents. Further, allowable patentable subject matter and the scope of patent protection obtainable may differ between jurisdictions. If a patent office allows broad claims, the number and cost of patent interference proceedings in the U.S. or analogous proceedings in other jurisdictions and the risk of infringement litigation may increase. If it allows narrow claims, the risk of infringement may decrease, but the value of our rights under our patents, licenses and patent applications may also decrease. In addition, the scope of the claims in a patent application can be significantly modified during prosecution before the patent is issued. Consequently, we cannot know whether our pending applications will result in the issuance of patents or, if any patents are issued, whether they will provide us with significant proprietary protection or will be circumvented, invalidated or found to be unenforceable. Until recently, patent applications in the U.S. were maintained in secrecy until the patents issued, and publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries. Patent applications filed in the United States after November 2000 generally will be published 18 months after the filing date unless the applicant certifies that the invention will not be the subject of a foreign patent application. In many other jurisdictions, such as Canada, patent applications are published 18 months from the priority date. We cannot assure you that, even if published, we will be aware of all such literature. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that the named inventors of our products and processes were the first to invent that product or process or that we were the first to pursue patent coverage for our inventions. Enforcement of intellectual property rights: Our commercial success depends in part on our ability to maintain and enforce our proprietary rights. If third-parties engage in activities that infringe our proprietary rights, our management’s focus will be diverted and we may incur significant costs in asserting our rights. We may not be successful in asserting our proprietary rights, which could result in our patents being held invalid or a court holding that the third-party is not infringing, either of which would harm our competitive position. In addition, we cannot assure you that others will not design around our patented technology. Moreover, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, European opposition proceedings, or other analogous proceedings in other parts of the world to determine priority of invention and the validity of patent rights granted or applied for, which could result in substantial cost and delay, even if the eventual outcome is favourable to us. We cannot assure you that our pending patent applications, if issued, would be held valid or enforceable. Additionally, many of our foreign patent applications have been published as part of the patent prosecution process in such countries. 9 Trademark protection: Protection of the rights revealed in published patent applications can be complex, costly and uncertain. In order to protect goodwill associated with our company and product names, we rely on trademark protection for our marks. For example, we have registered the Virulizin® trademark with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. A third-party may assert a claim that the Virulizin® mark is confusingly similar to its mark and such claims or the failure to timely register the Virulizin® mark or objections by the FDA could force us to select a new name for Virulizin®, which could cause us to incur additional expense. Trade secrets: We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and confidentiality provisions in our agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants to protect our intellectual property. However, these and other parties may not comply with the terms of their agreements with us, and we might be unable to adequately enforce our rights against these people or obtain adequate compensation for the damages caused by their unauthorized disclosure or use. Our trade secrets or those of our collaborators may become known or may be independently discovered by others. Our products and product candidates may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which could increase our costs. Our success also depends on avoiding infringement of the proprietary technologies of others. In particular, there may be certain issued patents and patent applications claiming subject matter which we or our collaborators may be required to license in order to research, develop or commercialize at least some of our product candidates, including Virulizin®, GTI-2040, GTI-2501 and small molecules. In addition, third-parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us based on our patents or other intellectual property rights. An adverse outcome in these proceedings could subject us to significant liabilities to third-parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third-parties or require us to cease or modify our use of the technology. If we are required to license such technology, we cannot assure you that a license under such patents and patent applications will be available on acceptable terms or at all. Further, we may incur substantial costs defending ourselves in lawsuits against charges of patent infringement or other unlawful use of another’s proprietary technology. If product liability claims are brought against us or we are unable to obtain or maintain product liability insurance, we may incur substantial liabilities that could reduce our financial resources. The clinical testing and commercial use of pharmaceutical products involves significant exposure to product liability claims. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials on humans; however, our insurance coverage may be insufficient to protect us against all product liability damages. Further, liability insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive and we might not be able to obtain or maintain product liability insurance in the future on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts to protect us against product liability damages. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in decreased demand for a future product, injury to reputation, withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers, loss of revenue, costs of litigation, distraction of management and substantial monetary awards to plaintiffs. Additionally, if we are required to pay a product liability claim, we may not have sufficient financial resources to complete development or commercialization of any of our product candidates and our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. We have no manufacturing capabilities. We depend on third-parties, including a number of sole suppliers, for manufacturing and storage of our product candidates used in our clinical trials. Product introductions may be delayed or suspended if the manufacture of our products is interrupted or discontinued. We do not have manufacturing facilities to produce supplies of Virulizin®, GTI-2040, GTI-2501, small molecule or any of our other product candidates to support clinical trials or commercial launch of these products, if they are approved. We are dependent on third-parties for manufacturing and storage of our product candidates. If we are unable to contract for a sufficient supply of our product candidates on acceptable terms, or if we encounter delays or difficulties in the manufacturing process or our relationships with our manufacturers, we may not have sufficient product to conduct or complete our clinical trials or support preparations for the commercial launch of our product candidates, if approved. 10 Dependence on contract manufacturers for commercial production involves a number of risks, many of which are outside our control. These risks include potential delays in transferring technology, and the inability of our contract manufacturer to scale production on a timely basis, to manufacture commercial quantities at reasonable costs, to comply with cGMP and to implement procedures that result in the production of drugs that meet our specifications and regulatory requirements. Our reliance on contract manufacturers exposes us to additional risks, including: • there may be delays in scale-up to quantities needed for clinical trials and commercial launch or failure to manufacture such quantities to our specifications, or to deliver such quantities on the dates we require; • our current and future manufacturers are subject to ongoing, periodic, unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding Canadian and international regulatory authorities for compliance with strictly enforced cGMP regulations and similar standards, and we do not have control over our contract manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards; • our current and future manufacturers may not be able to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, which would prohibit them from manufacturing products for us; • if we need to change to other commercial manufacturing contractors, the FDA and comparable foreign regulators must approve these contractors prior to our use, which would require new testing and compliance inspections, and the new manufacturers would have to be educated in, or themselves develop substantially equivalent processes necessary for the production or our products; and • our manufacturers might not be able to fulfill our commercial needs, which would require us to seek new manufacturing arrangements and may result in substantial delays in meeting market demand. Any of these factors could cause us to delay or suspend clinical trials, regulatory submission, required approvals or commercialization of our products under development, entail higher costs and result in our being unable to effectively commercialize our products. We do not currently intend to manufacture any of our product candidates, although we may choose to do so in the future. If we decide to manufacture our products, we would be subject to the regulatory risks and requirements described above. We would also be subject to similar risks regarding delays or difficulties encountered in manufacturing our pharmaceutical products and we would require additional facilities and substantial additional capital. We cannot assure you that we would be able to manufacture any of our products successfully in accordance with regulatory requirements and in a cost effective manner. Our operations involve hazardous materials and we must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, radioactive compounds and other potentially dangerous chemicals and biological agents. Although we believe our safety procedures for these materials comply with governmental standards, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. We currently have insurance, in amounts and on terms typical for companies in businesses that are similarly situated, that could coverall or a portion of a damage claim arising from our use of hazardous and other materials. However, if an accident or environmental discharge occurs, and we are held liable for any resulting damages, the associated liability could exceed our insurance coverage and our financial resources. We have limited sales, marketing and distribution experience. We have very limited experience in the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to establish sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with our collaborators, licensees or others to perform such activities or that such efforts will be successful. If we decide to market any of our products directly, we must either acquire or internally develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution capabilities. The acquisition or development of a sales and distribution infrastructure would require substantial resources, which may divert the attention of our management and key personnel and have a negative impact on our product development efforts. If we contract with third-parties for the sales and marketing of our products, our revenues will be dependent on the efforts of these third-parties, whose efforts may not be successful. If we fail to establish successful marketing and sales capabilities or to make arrangements with third-parties, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. 11 Our interest income is subject to fluctuations of interest rates in our investment portfolio. Our investments are held to maturity and have staggered maturities to minimize interest rate risk. There can be no assurance that interest income fluctuations will not have an adverse impact on our financial condition. We maintain all our accounts in Canadian dollars, but a portion of our expenditures are in foreign currencies. We do not currently engage in hedging our foreign currency requirements to reduce exchange rate risk. Because of the uncertainty of pharmaceutical pricing, reimbursement and healthcare reform measures, if any of our product candidates are approved for sale to the public, we may be unable to sell our products profitably. The availability of reimbursement by governmental and other third-party payers affects the market for any pharmaceutical product. These third-party payers continually attempt to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare. There have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system and further proposals are likely. Significant uncertainty exists with respect to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. In addition, third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost effectiveness of medical products and services. We might not be able to sell our products profitably or recoup the value of our investment in product development if reimbursement is unavailable or limited in scope. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON SHARES AND CONVERTIBLE DEBENTURES Our share price has been and may continue to be volatile and an investment in our common shares could suffer a decline in value. You should consider an investment in our common shares as risky and invest only if you can withstand a significant loss and wide fluctuations in the market value of your investment. We receive only limited attention by securities analysts and frequently experience an imbalance between supply and demand for our common shares. The market price of our common shares has been highly volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile. Factors affecting our common share price include: • the progress of our and our collaborators’ clinical trials, including our and our collaborators’ ability to produce clinical supplies of our product candidates on a timely basis and in sufficient quantities to meet our clinical trial requirements; • announcements of technological innovations or new product candidates by us, our collaborators or our competitors; • fluctuations in our operating results; • published reports by securities analysts; • developments in patent or other intellectual property rights; • publicity concerning discovery and development activities by our licensees; • the cash and short term investments held us and our ability to secure future financing; • public concern as to the safety and efficacy of drugs that we and our competitors develop; 12 • governmental regulation and changes in medical and pharmaceutical product reimbursement policies; and • general market conditions. Future sales of our common shares by us or by our existing shareholders could cause our share price to fall. Additional equity financings or other share issuances by us could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Sales by existing shareholders of a large number of shares of our common shares in the public market and the sale of shares issued in connection with strategic alliances, or the perception that such additional sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common shares to drop. Conversion of our secured convertible debentures will dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. The conversion of some or all of the convertible debentures will dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of the common shares issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common shares. In addition, the existence of the secured convertible debentures may encourage short selling by market participants. Item 