D. Risk Factors Belize Belize has been an independent country since 1981. Prior to its independence, Belize (formerly known as British Honduras) was a colony of Great Britain. Since its independence, Belize has been engaged in a program of developing its industries and economic infrastructure and making improvements in basic social services. Belize is bordered by southern Mexico and by Guatemala, with which a long outstanding territorial dispute remains unresolved, although diplomatic relations were restored between the two countries in 1991. However, Belize has a long history of mostly peaceful coexistence with neighboring countries, and has a stable democracy with successive governments that have encouraged foreign investment. Foreign locations The Company operates in a number of countries, including the United States, the United Kingdom and Belize. The Company operates, and may in the future continue to operate, in certain selected countries in the Central American region with varying histories of political and economic stability. To date, the Company has focused on some of the more stable countries in the region though there can be no assurance that the currently favorable factors affecting these countries will not change. Investment in a developing country, such as Belize, or any of the countries in Central America, can involve certain risks, including possible restrictions on transfers of income or assets, the restriction or elimination of foreign ownership of land or other assets, the restriction or prohibition of the transfer of income or assets outside of the 4 Table of Contents country, or the appropriation of assets not domestically owned. In addition, countries in the region have historically been subject to, among other things, high inflation, difficulties in repatriation of capital, volatile exchange rates and possible unenforceability of contracts which, although CHL believes the region is improving in these areas, can be factors that may materially affect one or more of the Company’s businesses or investments from time to time. Currency fluctuations CHL’s United States operations have no material exposure to currency fluctuations. The Company is susceptible to currency fluctuations between US dollars, the Company’s reporting and functional currency, and UK pounds sterling, the functional currency of CHL’s United Kingdom businesses. CHL’s strategy is to give preference to transactions involving companies with recurring convertible currency revenues or export markets to minimize the risk of restrictions on repatriation or the adverse effects of currency devaluations. CHL’s Belize operations are conducted in Belize currency which has been fixed by the Government of Belize at two Belize dollars to every one US dollar since 1976. There can be no assurance that the Government of Belize will maintain this rate and will not change its policy to allow the exchange rate to fluctuate in the future. A devaluation of the Belizean dollar could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s earnings and CHL’s ability to pay dividends. Preferential markets Belize and certain other countries in Central America enjoy preferential market access to the European Union with regard to banana and sugar exports, and to the United States with regard to citrus, through the Caribbean Basin Initiative. There can be no assurance that the benefits accruing to those countries through these arrangements will not be adversely affected by changes in the European Union market or by the impact of the North American Free Trade Agreement with regard to the Mexican, Canadian and US markets. Any such adverse effect may impact the economic environment of the countries in the region, which may, in turn, adversely affect the Company’s operations. Hurricanes Serious hurricanes have affected Belize in the past, the worst of which were in 1931 and 1961. Less serious hurricanes occurred in 1978, 1998, 2000 and 2001. Depending on the extent of damage, a serious hurricane could have a material adverse effect upon the physical infrastructure of Belize and a consequential effect on the economic stability of Belize. This could, under certain circumstances, lead to increased lending activity to adversely affected businesses and consumers, yet it can also be expected generally to slow economic growth and have an overriding negative effect on the Belizean economy as a whole. Any such negative effect would materially affect the Company and its results of operations. Governmental and regulatory factors Governmental actions concerning the economies of those countries where CHL operates have had and could continue to have a significant effect on private sector entities such as CHL, and on market conditions, prices and returns on equity securities, including those of CHL. The Company’s results of operations and the value of the ordinary shares of CHL may be affected by inflation, currency devaluation, interest rates, changes in Government policy (including foreign investment policy and taxation), social instability and other political, economic or diplomatic developments in or affecting Belize or other countries in which the Company operates. CHL cannot provide assurance that future developments in the Belizean or other relevant economies, over which CHL has no control, may not adversely affect the Company’s operations. 5 Table of Contents In 1990 an investment agreement was concluded between the Government of Belize and CHL (the “Investment Agreement”), which was evidenced, in part, through the subsequent enactment of Part XI of the International Business Companies Act, 1990 of Belize, as amended (the “IBC Act”). CHL benefits substantially from the Investment Agreement and from its special status under the IBC Act. Specifically, CHL is exempt from all forms of taxes and duties in Belize for a period of 30 years. This period expires on April 30, 2020, but may be extended by the Minster of Finance of Belize. CHL may also issue shares to residents of Belize and make loans to its subsidiaries in Belize without obtaining exchange control permission. There can be no assurance that the Government of Belize will not further modify, amend, repeal or enact rules, regulations or laws, including retroactive amendments, that will eliminate or curtail the benefit of these various concessions and rights. There can be no assurance that the Government of Belize, nor any other government in countries in which the Company invests or operates, will not further modify, amend, repeal or enact rules, regulations or laws, including retroactive amendments, that will eliminate or curtail the benefit of the various concessions and rights applicable to the Company’s businesses and investments. As an international business company under the IBC Act, CHL is deemed to be non-resident in Belize for exchange control purposes. Accordingly, there are no limitations currently in effect on the rights of non-residents of Belize to hold, transfer or vote shares in CHL. There can be no assurance, however, that the Government of Belize will not further modify, amend, repeal or enact rules, regulations or laws that will impose restrictions on the rights of non-Belizean investors to hold, transfer or vote shares in CHL. Performance of businesses and investments Facilities and Staffing Services: CHL is planning to develop and expand the Facilities Services and Staffing Services divisions by a combination of organic growth and, in the medium term, selective acquisitions of businesses in existing or related activities. Neither Division is dependent on any material individual customer, unusually competitive conditions, or other factors, other than normal market and general economic conditions. As a result of the current economic environments in both the United States and the United Kingdom, growth in organic sales revenues and margins in certain areas of its operations have proved difficult to achieve. This environment may continue, dependent upon general economic and market conditions. Whilst the Company is actively managing this overall situation, principally through pricing and cost control measures, it is currently unclear as to what effect these overall market and economic conditions may have on the Company’s future operating and financial performance. Financial Services: The Belize Bank Limited (the “Bank”) currently anticipates that its loan portfolio will continue to grow, although not necessarily at the same rate as in the past. As a result of this increase, the Bank’s historic loan loss experience may not be indicative of its future loan loss experience. As the Bank’s loan portfolio continues to grow, the Bank believes that loan losses will increase. Nevertheless, the Bank has adopted policies and procedures to deal with expected losses and to adjust its allowance for loan losses accordingly. The allowance for loan losses is believed by the Bank to be adequate to cover all known losses and any losses inherent in its loan portfolio. 6 Table of Contents Under regulations governing the Bank, the Central Bank of Belize (the “Central Bank”) is empowered, at any time, to revoke a banking license or impose or vary terms and conditions to which the license is subject on grounds set out in the regulations. There can be no assurance that the banking license granted to the Bank will not be cancelled or that conditions will not be attached to it in the future. Regional investment: The businesses of Grupo Agroindustrial CB, S.A. and related companies (together known as “NUMAR”) are subject to economic factors and conditions which CHL, due to the non-controlling nature of the Company’s equity investment, is not in a position to address directly other than through CHL’s active board participation. Furthermore, the performance of NUMAR is affected by world demand and supply conditions for edible oils, weather and crop factors and general economic and market conditions in Costa Rica and other countries in which NUMAR operates. Terrorism Terrorist acts or acts of war (wherever located around the world) may cause harm, damage or disruption to the employees, facilities, customers or suppliers of CHL and its subsidiaries and associates, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s earnings and financial position. The terrorist attacks that took place in the United States in September 2001 have created, and may continue to create, many economic and political uncertainties, some of which may adversely impact the Company’s businesses and resultant earnings. The long-term effects on the Company’s businesses of these, and any subsequent events, are unknown. The potential for future terrorist attacks, any national and international responses to such attacks, and other acts of hostility or war have created, and may continue to create, many economic and political uncertainties, which could adversely affect the Company’s businesses and earnings, in ways that cannot presently be predicted. In addition, as a multi-national company, with significant operations located in the United States and in the United Kingdom, the Company may be impacted by actions against the United States and the United Kingdom. The Company is principally uninsured against losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war. Controlling shareholder CHL’s major shareholder is Lord Ashcroft, KCMG, Chairman of CHL, who as of May 31, 2005 beneficially owned and controlled 44,120,884 ordinary shares of CHL (70.5 percent of the issued and outstanding ordinary shares of CHL). CHL’s constitutional documents do not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors. Consequently, as a result of his beneficial ownership, Lord Ashcroft controls CHL and retains the power to elect all of its directors and to determine the outcome of any action requiring shareholder approval. 