ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There is no assurance that we will successfully develop a commercially viable product. We are in various stages of preclinical development activities required for drug approval and commercialization. Since our formation in October 1984, we have engaged in research and development programs, expanding our network of scientists and scientific advisors, licensing technology agreements and, since obtaining the rights thereto in 1997, advancing the commercialization of the aromatic cation technology platform that we expect will be the basis for our drug candidates. We have generated no revenue from product sales, do not have any products currently available for sale, and none are expected to be commercially available for sale until after March 31, 2009, if at all. We cannot assure that the research we fund and manage will lead to commercially viable products. We have a history of losses and an accumulated deficit and, as a result, our future profitability is uncertain. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception and we expect to incur additional operating losses as we continue research and development, clinical trial and commercialization efforts. As of March 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $111.6 million. Losses from operations were approximately $11.7 million and $11.0 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2007 and March 31, 2008, respectively. New business strategies that we may pursue may present unforeseen integration obstacles or costs. We may selectively pursue complementary business initiatives and joint ventures in China, including the distribution of approved drug and other healthcare products, partnerships with local entities to provide CRS and provision of healthcare information, each of which inherently involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: · potential disruption of our on-going business and distraction of management; · difficulty with integration of personnel and financial and other systems; · hiring additional management and other critical personnel; and · increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. In addition, we may encounter unforeseen obstacles or costs in the integration of our new strategies. We have designed our new strategy to help us take advantage of expected market trends. However, our expectations may not be accurate and these markets may not develop or they may take longer to develop than expected. Additionally, we cannot assure that our customers and potential customers will accept our products quickly enough or in sufficient volume to grow revenue and profit. A lack of market acceptance would materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flow. -25- We need substantial additional funds, currently and in future years, to continue our research and development. If such financing is not available, we may be required to pursue other financing alternatives, reduce spending for our research programs or cease operations. Our operations to date have consumed substantial amounts of cash. Negative cash flow from operations is expected to continue in the foreseeable future. Without substantial additional financing, we may be required to reduce some or all of our research programs or cease operations. Our cash requirements may vary materially from those now planned because of results of research and development, results of preclinical and clinical testing, responses to our grant requests, relationships with strategic partners, changes in the focus and direction of our research and development programs, delays or failure in the enrollment and completion of our clinical trials, competitive and technological advances, FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes and other factors. In any of these circumstances, we may require substantially more funds than we currently have available or intend to raise to continue our business. We may seek to satisfy future funding requirements through public or private offerings of equity securities, by collaborative or other arrangements with pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, issuance of debt or from other sources. Additional financing may not be available when needed or may not be available on acceptable terms. If adequate financing is not available, we may not be able to continue as a going concern or may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate certain research and development programs, relinquish rights to certain technologies or drug candidates, forego desired opportunities or license third parties to commercialize our products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to pursue internally. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, ownership dilution to existing stockholders may result. We receive funding primarily from research and development programs, fees associated with licensing of our technology, grants and from sales of equity securities. To date we have directed most of such funds not used for general and administrative overhead toward our research and development and commercialization programs (including preparation of submissions to regulatory agencies). Until one or more of our drug candidates is approved for sale, our funding is limited to funds from research and development programs, fees associated with licensing of our technology, grants and proceeds from sales of equity or debt securities. Although we formally discontinued development of pafuramidine and expect to reduce our workforce, we may be unable to successfully manage our remaining resources, including available cash, while we seek to identify new drug development candidates or complete a strategic transaction. We formally discontinued clinical development of pafuramidine in February 2008 after the pafuramidine program had been placed on clinical hold. We had previously devoted a majority of our research, development and clinical efforts and financial resources toward the development of pafuramidine, and we have few product candidates in clinical or preclinical development. In connection with the termination of our clinical development of pafuramidine, we anticipate workforce reductions. By the end of June 2008, we expect to reduce our workforce by six full-time employees. We cannot predict whether we will be able to identify alternate strategic transactions which will either provide us with new drug development candidates or return value to our stockholders on a timely basis or at all. We also cannot predict whether any -26- potential strategic transaction would be consummated on favorable terms, and anticipate that such transaction may require us to incur significant additional costs. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We currently have enough cash to operate through December 31, 2008 and capital resources through the sale of the land use rights that we believe to be sufficient to support our operations beyond March 31, 2009. Our recent decision to terminate our pafuramidine development program has significantly depressed our stock price and severely impaired our ability to raise additional funds. We are currently evaluating our strategic alternatives with respect to all aspects of our business. We may be unable to realize value from our assets and discharge our liabilities in the normal course of business. All of these factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. If we become unable to continue as a going concern, we would have to liquidate our assets, and we might realize significantly less than the values at which they are carried on our financial statements. In addition, the accompanying financial statements do not include any adjustments or charges that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern, such as charges related to impairment of our assets, the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities or other similar adjustments. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm on the accompanying financial statements contains an explanatory paragraph regarding going-concern uncertainty. We may not be successful in retaining key employees and in attracting qualified new employees as required in the future. If we are unable to retain our management, scientific staff and scientific advisors or to attract additional qualified personnel, our ability to operate our business will be seriously jeopardized. By the end of June 2008, we expect to reduce our workforce by 6 employees. Competition among biotechnology companies for qualified employees is intense, and the ability to retain and attract qualified individuals is critical to our success. We may experience further reductions in our workforce due to voluntary employee resignations and a diminished ability to recruit new employees. We may be unable to attract or retain key personnel on acceptable terms, if at all. All of our employees are “at will” and may leave at any time. None of our executive officers has as of this date, expressed any intention to retire or leave our employ. We do not have “key-man” life insurance policies on any of our executives. Most of the financial aspects of our business, including investor relations, intellectual property control and corporate governance, are under the supervision of Eric L. Sorkin, Cecilia Chan and Gary Parks. Together, Mr. Sorkin, Ms. Chan and Mr. Parks hold institutional knowledge and business acumen that they utilize to assist us to forge new relationships and foster new business opportunities without diminishing or undermining existing programs and obligations. -27- A substantial portion of our proprietary intellectual property is developed by scientists who are not employed by us. Our business depends to a significant degree on the continuing contributions of our key management, scientific and technical personnel, as well as on the continued discoveries of scientists, researchers and specialists at UNC-CH, Georgia State University, Duke University, Auburn University, and Tulane University and other research groups that form part of our Scientific Consortium and assist in the development of our drug candidates. A substantial portion of our proprietary intellectual property is developed by scientists who are employed by our partner universities and other research groups. We do not have control over, knowledge of, or access to those employment arrangements. We have not been advised by any of our key employees, key members of the scientific research groups or other research groups that form part of our Scientific Consortium of their intention to leave their employ with these parties or the programs they conduct. There can be no assurance that the loss of certain members of our management or the scientists, researchers and technicians from the universities or other members of our Scientific Consortium would not materially adversely affect our business. Additional research grants to fund our operations may not be available or, if available, not on terms acceptable to us. We have funded our product development and operations as of March 31, 2008 through a combination of sales of equity instruments and revenue generated from research agreements and grants. As of March 31, 2008, our accumulated deficit was approximately $111.6 million, net of approximately $34.8 million, which was funded either directly or indirectly with grant funds and payments from research and testing agreements, and licensing agreements. We have received funding from different sources pursuant to research and testing agreements; however, we do not anticipate any future funds under any such agreement unless we require more funds to close out our pafuramidine development program. We will continue to apply for new grants to support continuing research and development of our proprietary aromatic cation technology platform and other drug candidates. The process of obtaining grants is extremely competitive and there can be no assurance that any of our grant applications will be acted upon favorably. Some charitable organizations that directly or indirectly provide funding to us may require licenses to our proprietary information or may impose price restrictions on the products we develop with their funds. We may not be able to negotiate terms that are acceptable to us with such organizations. In the event we are unable to raise sufficient funds to advance our product developments with such grant funds we may seek to raise additional capital with the issuance of equity or debt securities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to place or sell equity or debt securities on terms acceptable to us and, if we sell equity, existing stockholders may suffer dilution. See “— Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect our ability to sell equity securities” and “— Our outstanding options and warrants may adversely affect our ability to consummate future equity financings due to the dilution potential to future investors.” -28- None of our drug candidates have been approved for sale by any regulatory agency. Such approval is required before we can sell drug products commercially. There can be no assurance that any of our drug candidates will be successfully developed, demonstrated to be safe and effective in human clinical trials, meet applicable regulatory standards, be approved by regulatory authorities, be eligible for third-party reimbursement from governmental or private insurers, be successfully marketed or achieve market acceptance. If we are unable to commercialize our drug candidates in a timely manner we may be required to seek additional funding, reduce or cancel some or all of our development programs, sell or license some of our proprietary information or cease operations. Delays in successfully completing any clinical trials we may conduct could jeopardize our ability to obtain regulatory approval or market our potential product candidates on a timely basis. As we develop potential product candidates, our business prospects may depend on our ability to complete patient enrollment in clinical trials, to obtain satisfactory results, to obtain required regulatory approvals and to successfully commercialize our product candidates. Product development, undertaken to show adequate evidence of effectiveness in animal models and safety and efficacy in humans, is a long, expensive and uncertain process, and delay or failure can occur at any stage of our non-clinical studies or clinical trials. Any delay or significant adverse clinical events arising during any of our clinical trials could force us to abandon a product candidate altogether or to conduct additional clinical trials in order to obtain approval from the FDA or other regulatory body. These development efforts and clinical trials are lengthy and expensive, and the outcome is uncertain. Completion of any clinical trials we may commence, announcement of results of the trials and our ability to obtain regulatory approvals could be delayed for a variety of reasons, including: · slower-than-anticipated enrollment of volunteers in the trials; · lower-than-anticipated recruitment or retention rate of volunteers in the trials; · serious adverse events related to the product candidates; · unsatisfactory results of any clinical trial; · the failure of our principal third-party investigators to perform our clinical trials on our anticipated schedules; or · different interpretations of our preclinical and clinical data, which could initially lead to inconclusive results. Our development costs will increase if we have material delays in any clinical trial or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. If the delays are significant, or if any of our product candidates do not prove to be safe or effective or do not receive required regulatory approvals, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product -29- candidates will be harmed. Furthermore, our inability to complete our clinical trials in a timely manner could jeopardize our ability to obtain regulatory approval. We do not currently have pharmaceutical manufacturing and distribution capability, which could impair our ability to develop commercially viable products at reasonable costs. Our ability to commercialize drug candidates will depend in part upon our ability to have manufactured or developed the capability to manufacture our drug candidates and to distribute those goods, either directly or through third parties, at a competitive cost and in accordance with FDA and other regulatory requirements. We currently lack facilities and personnel to manufacture or distribute our drug candidates. There can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire such resources, either directly or through third parties, at reasonable costs, if we develop commercially viable products. We are dependent on third party relationships for critical aspects of our business. Problems that develop in these relationships may increase costs and/or diminish our ability to develop our drug candidates. We use the expertise and resources of strategic partners and third parties in a number of key areas, including (i) discovery research, (ii) preclinical and human clinical trials, (iii) product development, (iv) manufacturing of pharmaceutical drugs, and (v) distribution. We have a worldwide license and exclusive commercialization rights to a proprietary aromatic cation technology platform and are developing drugs intended for commercial use based on that platform. This strategy creates risks by placing critical aspects of our business in the hands of third parties, whom we may not be able to control. If these third parties do not perform in a timely and satisfactory manner, we may incur costs and delays as we seek alternate sources of such products and services, if available. Such costs and delays may have a material adverse effect on our business if the delays jeopardize our licensing arrangements by causing us to become non-compliant with certain license agreements. We may seek additional third party relationships in certain areas, particularly in clinical testing, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and other areas where pharmaceutical and biotechnology company collaborators will enable us to develop particular products or geographic markets that are otherwise beyond our current resources and/or capabilities. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such collaboration or any other research and development, clinical trial, manufacturing, marketing or distribution relationships. Our inability to obtain and maintain satisfactory relationships with third parties may have a material adverse effect on our business by slowing our ability to develop new products, requiring us to expand our internal capabilities, increasing our overhead and expenses, hampering future growth opportunities or causing us to delay or terminate affected programs. We are uncertain about our ability to protect or obtain necessary patents and protect our proprietary information. Our ability to develop and commercialize drug candidates would be compromised without adequate intellectual property protection. We have spent and continue to spend considerable funds to develop our drug candidates and we are relying on the potential to exploit commercially without competition the results of -30- our product development. Much of our intellectual property is licensed to us under various agreements, including the Consortium Agreement, Amended and Restated License Agreement, and the Tulane License Agreement. It is the primary responsibility of the discoverer to develop his, her or its invention confidentially, insure that the invention is unique, and to obtain patent protection. In most cases, our role is to reimburse patent related costs after we decide to develop any such invention. We therefore rely on the inventors to insure that technology licensed to us is adequately protected. Without adequate protection for our intellectual property we believe our ability to realize profits on our future commercialized product would be diminished. Without protection, competitors might be able to copy our work and compete with our products without having invested in the development. There can be no assurance that any particular patent will be granted or that issued patents (issued to us directly or through licenses) will provide us with the intellectual property protection contemplated by such patents. Patents and licenses of patents can be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Patent litigation is expensive and time-consuming and the outcome cannot be predicted. It is also possible that competitors will develop similar products simultaneously. Our breach of any license agreement or the failure to obtain a license to any technology or process which may be required to develop or commercialize one or more of our drug candidates may have a material adverse effect on our business, including the need for additional capital to develop alternate technology, the potential that competitors may gain unfair advantage and lessen our expectation of potential future revenues. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology fields are characterized by a large number of patent filings, and a substantial number of patents have already been issued to other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Third parties may have filed applications for, or may have been issued, certain patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights related to products or processes competitive with or similar to those that we are attempting to develop and commercialize. We may not be aware of all of the patents potentially adverse to our interests that may have been issued to others. No assurance can be given that patents do not exist, have not been filed or could not be filed or issued, which contain claims relating to or competitive with our technology, drug candidates, product uses or processes. If patents have been or are issued to others containing preclusive or conflicting claims, then we may be required to obtain licenses to one or more of such patents or to develop or obtain alternative technology. There can be no assurance that the licenses or alternative technology that might be required for such alternative processes or products would be available on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. Because of the substantial length of time and expense associated with bringing new drug products to market through the development and regulatory approval process, the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries place considerable importance on patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. Since patent applications filed in the United States are confidential for eighteen months after filing and some are confidential until their date of issue as a patent and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we (or our licensors) were the first to make the inventions covered by pending patent applications or that we (or our licensors) were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual -31- questions and, therefore, the breadth of claims allowed in pharmaceutical and biotechnology patents, or their enforceability, cannot be predicted. There can be no assurance that any patents under pending patent applications or any further patent applications will be issued. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the scope of any patent protection will exclude competitors or provide us competitive advantages, that any of our (or our licensors’) patents that have been issued or may be issued will be held valid if subsequently challenged, or that others, including competitors or current or former employers of our employees, advisors and consultants, will not claim rights in, or ownership to, our (or our licensors’) patents and other proprietary rights. There can be no assurance that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or otherwise obtain access to our proprietary information, or that others may not be issued patents that may require us to obtain a license for, and pay significant fees or royalties for, such proprietary information. We rely on technology developed by others and shared with collaborators to develop our drug candidates, which puts our proprietary information at risk of unauthorized disclosure. We rely on trade secrets, know-how and technological advancement to maintain our competitive position. Although we use license agreements, confidentiality agreements and employee proprietary information and invention assignment agreements to protect our trade secrets and other unpatented know-how, these agreements may be breached by the other party thereto or may otherwise be of limited effectiveness or enforceability. We are licensed to commercialize technology from a proprietary aromatic cation technology platform developed by our research partners, comprised primarily of scientists employed by universities in our Scientific Consortium. The academic world is improved by the sharing of information. As a business, however, the sharing of information whether through publication of research, academic lectures or general intellectual discourse among contemporaries is not conducive to protection of proprietary information. Our proprietary information may fall into the possession of unintended parties without our knowledge through customary academic information sharing. At times we may enter into confidentiality agreements with other companies, allowing them to test our technology for potential future licensing, in return for milestone and royalty payments should any discoveries result from the use of our proprietary information. We cannot be assured that such parties will honor these confidentiality agreements subjecting our intellectual property to unintended disclosure. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have experienced extensive litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We could incur substantial costs in defending suits that may be brought against us (or our licensors) claiming infringement of the rights of others or in asserting our (or our licensors’) patent rights in a suit against another party. We may also be required to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office or similar foreign agency for the purpose of determining the priority of inventions in connection with our (or our licensors’) patent applications. -32- Adverse determinations in litigation or interference proceedings could require us to seek licenses (which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms) or subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, and could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business by increasing our expenses. Even if we prevail in an interference proceeding or a lawsuit, substantial resources, including the time and attention of our officers, would be required. Confidentiality agreements may not adequately protect our intellectual property, which could result in unauthorized disclosure or use of our proprietary information. We require our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we share proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their relationship with us. The agreements generally provide that trade secrets and all inventions conceived by the individual and all confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the term of the relationship will be our exclusive property and will be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specified circumstances. There can be no assurance, however, that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. If our unpatented proprietary information is publicly disclosed before we have been granted patent protection, our competitors could be unjustly enriched and we could lose the ability to profitably develop products from such information. Our industry has significant competition; our drug candidates may become obsolete prior to commercialization due to alternative technologies, thereby rendering our development efforts obsolete or non-competitive. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology fields are characterized by extensive research efforts and rapid technological progress. Competition from other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and research and academic institutions is intense and other companies are engaged in research and product development to treat the same diseases that we target. New developments in pharmaceutical and biotechnology fields are expected to continue at a rapid pace in both industry and academia. There can be no assurance that research and discoveries by others will not render some or all of our programs or products non-competitive or obsolete. We are aware of other companies and institutions dedicated to the development of therapeutics similar to those we are developing. Many of our existing or potential competitors have substantially greater financial and technical resources than we do and therefore may be in a better position to develop, manufacture and market pharmaceutical products. Many of these competitors are also more experienced performing preclinical testing and human clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approvals. The current or future existence of competitive products may also adversely affect the marketability of our drug candidates. In the event some or all of our programs are rendered non-competitive or obsolete, we do not currently have alternative strategies to develop new product lines or the financial resources to pursue such a course of action. -33- There is no assurance that we will receive FDA or corollary foreign approval for any of our drug candidates for any indication. We are subject to government regulation for the commercialization of our drug candidates. We have not made application to the FDA or any other regulatory agency to sell commercially or label any of our drug candidates. All new pharmaceutical drugs, including our drug candidates, are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by the federal government, principally the FDA under the FFDCA and other laws and by applicable state, local and foreign governments. Such regulations govern, among other things, the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, pre-market clearance or approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of pharmaceutical drugs. If drug products are marketed abroad, they are subject to extensive regulation by foreign governments. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements may subject us to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions such as civil penalties, criminal prosecution, injunctions, product seizure or detention, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production and FDA refusal to approve pending applications. Each of our drug candidates must be approved for each indication for which we believe it to be viable. We have not yet determined from which regulatory agencies we will seek approval for our drug candidates or indications for which approval will be sought. Once determined, the approval process is subject to those agencies’ policies and acceptance of those agencies’ approvals, if obtained, in the countries where we intend to market our drug candidates. We have not received regulatory approval in the United States or any foreign jurisdiction for the commercial sale of any of our drug candidates. The process of obtaining FDA or other regulatory approvals, including foreign approvals, often takes many years and varies substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the products involved and the indications being studied. Furthermore, the approval process is extremely expensive and uncertain. There can be no assurance that our drug candidates will be approved for commercial sale in the United States by the FDA or regulatory agencies in foreign countries. The regulatory review process can take many years and we will need to raise additional funds to complete the regulatory review process for our current drug candidates. The failure to receive FDA or other governmental approval would have a material adverse effect on our business by precluding us from marketing and selling such products and negatively impacting our ability to generate future revenues. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the labeling claims (a labeling claim is a product’s description and its FDA permitted uses) necessary or desirable for the promotion of such product. FDA regulations prohibit the marketing or promotion of a drug for unapproved indications. Furthermore, regulatory marketing approval may entail ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies if regulatory approval is obtained. We will also be subject to ongoing FDA obligations and continued regulatory review. In particular, we, or our third party manufacturers, will be required to adhere to good manufacturing practices, which require us (or our third party manufacturers) to manufacture products and maintain records in a prescribed manner with respect to manufacturing, testing and quality control. Further, we (or our third party manufacturers) must pass a manufacturing facilities pre-approval inspection by the FDA or corollary agency before obtaining marketing approval. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements may result in penalties, such as restrictions on a product’s -34- marketing or withdrawal of the product from the market. In addition, identification of certain side-effects after a drug is on the market or the occurrence of manufacturing problems could cause subsequent withdrawal of approval, reformulation of the drug, additional preclinical testing or clinical trials and changes in labeling of the product. Prior to the submission of an application for FDA or other regulatory approvals, our pharmaceutical drugs undergo rigorous preclinical and clinical testing, which may take several years and the expenditure of substantial financial and other resources. Before commencing clinical trials in humans in the United States, we must submit to the FDA and receive clearance of an IND. There can be no assurance that submission of an IND for future clinical testing of any of our drug candidates under development or other future drug candidates will result in FDA permission to commence clinical trials or that we will be able to obtain the necessary approvals for future clinical testing in any foreign jurisdiction. Further, there can be no assurance that if such testing of drug candidates under development is completed, any such drug compounds will be accepted for formal review by the FDA or any foreign regulatory agency or approved by the FDA for marketing in the United States or by any such foreign regulatory agencies for marketing in foreign jurisdictions. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect our ability to sell equity securities. Sales of our Common Stock (including the issuance of shares upon conversion of our preferred stock (the “Preferred Stock”)) in the public market could materially and adversely affect the market price of shares because prior sales have been executed at or below our current market price. We have outstanding five series of Preferred Stock that convert to our Common Stock at prices equivalent to $4.42, $4.00, $4.42, $9.00 and $7.04, respectively, for our series A convertible preferred stock (“Series A Preferred Stock”), series B convertible preferred stock (“Series B Preferred Stock”), series C convertible preferred stock (“Series C Preferred Stock”), series D convertible preferred stock (“Series D Preferred Stock”) and series E convertible preferred stock (“Series E Preferred Stock”) (subject to adjustment for stock splits, stock dividends and similar dilutive events). Our obligation to convert our Preferred Stock upon demand by the holders may depress the price of our Common Stock and also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of June 2, 2008 we had 15,876,983 shares of Common Stock outstanding, plus (1) 50,500 shares of Series A Preferred Stock, convertible into approximately 285,633 shares of Common Stock at the conversion rate of 1:5.6561, (2) 11,464 shares of Series B Preferred Stock convertible into approximately 71,650 shares of Common Stock at the conversion rate of 1:6.25, (3) 45,536 shares of Series C Preferred Stock convertible into approximately 257,556 shares of Common Stock at the conversion rate of 1:5.6561, (4) 115,200 shares of Series D Preferred Stock convertible into approximately 320,003 shares of Common Stock at the conversion rate of 1:2.7778, (5) 98,600 shares of Series E Preferred Stock convertible into approximately 350,143 shares of Common Stock at the conversion rate of 1:3.5511, (6) 2,031,236 options to purchase shares of Common Stock with a weighted-average exercise price of $10.29 per share, and (7) 2,259,800 warrants to purchase shares of Common Stock with a weighted-average exercise price of $8.20. Of the shares outstanding, 15,093,771 shares of Common Stock are freely tradable without restriction. All of the remaining 783,212 shares are restricted from resale, -35- except pursuant to certain exceptions under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). Our outstanding options and warrants may adversely affect our ability to consummate future equity financings due to the dilution potential to future investors. We have outstanding options and warrants for the purchase of shares of our Common Stock with exercise prices currently below market which may adversely affect our ability to consummate future equity financings. The holders of such warrants and options may exercise them at a time when we would otherwise be able to obtain additional equity capital on more favorable terms. To the extent any such options and warrants are exercised, the value of our outstanding shares of our Common Stock may be diluted. As of June 2, 2008, we have outstanding vested options to purchase 1,664,937 shares of Common Stock at a weighted-average exercise price of $9.29 and vested warrants to purchase 2,249,800 shares of Common Stock with a weighted-average price of $8.18. Due to the number of shares of Common Stock we are obligated to sell pursuant to outstanding options and warrants described above, potential investors may not purchase our future equity offerings at market price because of the potential dilution such investors may suffer as a result of the exercise of the outstanding options and warrants. The market price of our Common Stock has experienced significant volatility. The securities markets from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In addition, the market prices of the Common Stock of many publicly traded pharmaceutical companies have been and can be expected to be especially volatile. Our Common Stock price in the 52-week period ended March 31, 2008 had a high of $8.99 and a low of $0.48, and on June 2, 2008 had a high of $1.00 and a low of $0.93. Announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights, publicity regarding actual or potential clinical trial results relating to products under development by us or our competitors, regulatory developments in both the United States and foreign countries, delays in our testing and development schedules, public concern as to the safety of pharmaceutical drugs and economic and other external factors, as well as period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results, may have a significant impact on the market price of our Common Stock. The realization of any of the risks described in these “Risk Factors” may have a significant adverse impact on such market prices. We may pay vendors and advisors in stock as consideration for their services. This may result in stockholder dilution, additional costs and difficulty retaining certain vendors. In order for us to preserve our cash resources, we have previously paid and may in the future pay vendors and advisors in shares, warrants or options to purchase shares of our Common Stock rather than cash. Payments for services in stock may materially and adversely affect our stockholders by diluting the value of outstanding shares of our Common Stock. In addition, in situations where we have agreed to register the shares issued to a vendor or advisor, we may incur additional expenses associated with such registration. Paying vendors or advisors in -36- shares, warrants or options to purchase shares of Common Stock may also limit our ability to contract with the vendor or advisor of our choice should that vendor or advisor decline payment in stock. We do not intend to pay dividends on our Common Stock. Until such time as we pay cash dividends, our stockholders must rely on increases in our stock price for appreciation. We have never declared or paid dividends on our Common Stock. We intend to retain future earnings to develop and commercialize our products and therefore we do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Until such time as we determine to pay cash dividends on our Common Stock, our stockholders must rely on increases in our Common Stock’s market price for appreciation. We incur increased costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which may adversely affect our operating results and failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could cause investors to lose confidence in our operating results and in the accuracy of our financial reports and could have a material adverse effect on our business and on the price of our Common Stock. As a public company, we are required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for our 2008 fiscal year. Management is responsible for implementing controls and other procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file with the SEC is disclosed accurately and is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. In the event that we are not able to demonstrate compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner, or are unable to produce timely or accurate financial statements, we may be subject to sanctions or investigations by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or AMEX and investors may lose confidence in our operating results and our stock price could decline. Furthermore, if we or our auditors are unable to certify that our internal control is effective and in compliance with Section 404 we may be subject to sanctions or investigations by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or AMEX and we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and on the price of our common stock. Furthermore, as a public company, we incur significant additional legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including regulations implemented by the SEC and AMEX may increase legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If notwithstanding our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and -37- standards, we fail to comply, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. Failure to comply with these rules might also make it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we might be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage and/or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, on committees of our board of directors, or as executive officers. There are limitations on the liability of our directors, and we may have to indemnify our officers and directors in certain instances. Our certificate of incorporation limits, to the maximum extent permitted under Delaware law, the personal liability of our directors for monetary damages for breach of their fiduciary duties as directors. Our bylaws provide that we will indemnify our officers, directors, employees and other agents to the fullest extent permitted by law. These provisions may be in some respects broader than the specific indemnification provisions under Delaware law. The indemnification provisions may require us, among other things, to (i) indemnify such persons against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status with or service to the Company (other than liabilities arising from willful misconduct of a culpable nature), (ii) advance expenses incurred as a result of any proceeding against such persons as to which they could be indemnified and (iii) obtain directors’ and officers’ insurance. Section 145 of the Delaware General Corporation Law provides that a corporation may indemnify a director, officer, employee or agent made or threatened to be made a party to an action by reason of the fact that he or she was a director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation or was serving at the request of the corporation, against expenses actually and reasonably incurred in connection with such action if he or she acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe his or her conduct was unlawful. Delaware law does not permit a corporation to eliminate a director’s duty of care and the provisions of our certificate of incorporation have no effect on the availability of equitable remedies, such as injunction or rescission, for a director’s breach of the duty of care. We believe that our limitation of officer and director liability assists us to attract and retain qualified officers and directors. However, in the event an officer, a director or our board of directors commits an act that may legally be indemnified under Delaware law, we will be responsible to pay for such officer(s) or director(s) legal defense and potentially any damages resulting therefrom. Furthermore, the limitation on director liability may reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation against directors, and may discourage or deter stockholders from instituting litigation against directors for breach of their fiduciary duties, even though such an action, if successful, might benefit us and our stockholders. Given the difficult environment and potential for incurring liabilities currently facing directors of publicly-held corporations, we believe that director indemnification is in our and our stockholders’ best interests because it enhances our ability to attract and retain highly qualified directors and reduce a possible deterrent to entrepreneurial decision-making. -38- Nevertheless, limitations of director liability may be viewed as limiting the rights of stockholders, and the broad scope of the indemnification provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could result in increased expenses. Our board of directors believes, however, that these provisions will provide a better balancing of the legal obligations of, and protections for, directors and will contribute positively to the quality and stability of our corporate governance. Our board of directors has concluded that the benefit to stockholders of improved corporate governance outweighs any possible adverse effects on stockholders of reducing the exposure of directors to liability and broadened indemnification rights. ITEM 