ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There is no assurance that we will successfully develop a commercially viable product; our most advanced drug candidate, our first drug candidate pafuramidine, is in Phase III human clinical trials for two indications. We are in various stages of human clinical trials, and in some cases preclinical development activities required for drug approval and commercialization. Since our formation in October 1984, we have engaged in research and development programs, expanding our network of scientists and scientific advisors, licensing technology agreements and, since obtaining the rights thereto in 1997, advancing the commercialization of the aromatic cation technology platform that is the basis for our first drug candidate, pafuramidine. We have generated no revenue from product sales, do not have any products currently available for sale, and none are expected to be commercially available for sale until after March 31, 2007, if at all. -31- There can be no assurance that the research we fund and manage will lead to commercially viable products. Our most advanced programs are in Phase III human clinical testing using pafuramidine, our first drug candidate, for several indications including Pneumocystis pneumonia, trypanosomiasis (African sleeping sickness) and malaria (Phase II) and must undergo substantial additional regulatory review prior to commercialization. We have a history of losses and an accumulated deficit; our future profitability is uncertain. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception and we expect to incur additional operating losses as we continue research and development, clinical trial and commercialization efforts. As of March 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $88.8 million. Losses from operations were approximately $13.6 million and $15.7 million, for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2005 and March 31, 2006, respectively. We need substantial additional funds, currently and in future years, to continue our research and development; if financing is not available, we may be required to pursue other financing alternatives, reduce spending for our research programs or cease operations. Our operations to date have consumed substantial amounts of cash. Negative cash flow from operations is expected to continue in the foreseeable future. Without substantial additional financing, we may be required to reduce some or all of our research programs or cease operations. Our cash requirements may vary materially from those now planned because of results of research and development, results of preclinical and clinical testing, responses to our grant requests, relationships with strategic partners, changes in the focus and direction of our research and development programs, delays in the enrollment and completion of our clinical trials, competitive and technological advances, United States Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") and foreign regulatory approval processes and other factors. In any of these circumstances, we may require substantially more funds than we currently have available or intend to raise to continue our business. We may seek to satisfy future funding requirements through public or private offerings of equity securities, by collaborative or other arrangements with pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, issuance of debt or from other sources. Additional financing may not be available when needed or may not be available on acceptable terms. If adequate financing is not available, we may not be able to continue as a going concern or may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate certain research and development programs, relinquish rights to certain technologies or drug candidates, forego desired opportunities or license third parties to commercialize our products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to pursue internally. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, ownership dilution to existing stockholders may result. We receive funding primarily from research and development programs, fees associated with licensing of our technology, grants and from sales of equity securities. To date we have directed most of such funds not used for general and administrative overhead toward our research and development and commercialization programs (including preparation of submissions to regulatory agencies). Until one or more of our drug candidates is approved for -32- sale, our funding is limited to funds from research and development programs, fees associated with licensing of our technology, grants and proceeds from sales of equity or debt securities. We do not have employment contracts with any employees. All of our employees are "at will" and may leave at any time. None of our executive officers has as of this date, expressed any intention to retire or leave our employ. We do not have "key-man" life insurance policies on any of our executives. Most of our business' financial aspects, including investor relations, intellectual property control and corporate governance, are under the supervision of Eric L. Sorkin, Cecilia Chan and Gary Parks. Together, Mr. Sorkin, Ms. Chan and Mr. Parks hold institutional knowledge and business savvy that they utilize to assist us to forge new relationships and exploit new business opportunities without diminishing or undermining existing programs and obligations. A substantial portion of our proprietary intellectual property is developed by scientists who are not employed by us. Our business depends to a significant degree on the continuing contributions of our key management, scientific and technical personnel, as well as on the continued discoveries of scientists, researchers and specialists at UNC-CH, Georgia State University, Duke University, Auburn University, and Tulane University and other research groups that assist in the development of our drug candidates. A substantial portion of our proprietary intellectual property is developed by scientists who are employed by our partner universities and other research groups. We do not have control over, knowledge of, or access to those employment arrangements. We have not been advised by any of the key members of our company, the scientific research groups or of the universities of their intention to leave their employ or the program. There can be no assurance that the loss of certain members of management or the scientists, researchers and technicians from the universities would not materially adversely affect our business. Additional research grants to fund our operations may not be available or, if available, not on terms acceptable to us. We have funded our product development and operations as of March 31, 2006 through a combination of sales of equity instruments and revenue generated from research agreements and grants. As of March 31, 2006, our accumulated deficit was approximately $88.8 million net of approximately $20.8 million, which was funded either directly or indirectly with grant funds and payments from research and testing agreements. In November 2000, the Foundation awarded a $15.1 million grant to UNC-CH to develop new drugs to treat Human Trypanosomiasis (African sleeping sickness) and leishmaniasis (the "Foundation Grant"). On March 29, 2001, UNC-CH entered into a clinical research subcontract agreement with us, whereby we were to receive up to $9.8 million, subject to certain terms ad conditions, over the succeeding five year period, to conduct certain clinical and research studies related to the Foundation Grant. In April 2003, the Foundation increased the Foundation Grant -33- by approximately $2.7 million for the expansion of phase IIB/III clinical trials to treat human Trypanosomiasis and to improve manufacturing processes. As of March 31, 2006, we had received, pursuant to the clinical research subcontract with UNC-CH, inclusive of our portion of the grant increase, a total amount of funding of approximately $11.7 million. On March 28, 2006, the Foundation increased the Foundation Grant by an approximate additional $22.6 million; $13.6 million of the addition Foundation Grant is budgeted to be paid to us over five years under the Amended and Restated Clinical Research Agreement. On May 24, 2006, we received the first payment of approximately $5.6 million of the five year $13.6 million contract. In November 2003, we entered into a Testing Agreement with the Medicines For Malaria Venture, a foundation established in Switzerland and UNC-CH, pursuant to which we, with the support of MMV and UNC-CH, conducted a proof of concept study of pafuramidine in human clinical trials with the goal of obtaining marketing approval of a product for the treatment of malaria. Through February 10, 2006, the Company had received approximately $5.6 million under this agreement. We and MMV agreed in December 2005 to terminate the current agreement to refocus our efforts on a combination therapy using AQ13 in collaboration with Tulane University. MMV has verbally committed to the new program and additional funding. We plan to disclose the terms of the new program and funding upon completion of documentation. We will continue to apply for new grants to support continuing research and development of our proprietary aromatic cation technology platform and other drug candidates. The process of obtaining grants is extremely competitive and there can be no assurance that any of our grant applications will be acted upon favorably. Some charitable organizations directly or indirectly provide funding to us may require licenses to our proprietary information or may impose price restrictions on the products we develop with their funds. We may not be able to negotiate terms that are acceptable to us with such organizations. In the event we are unable to raise sufficient funds to advance our product developments with such grant funds we may seek to raise additional capital with the issuance of equity or debt securities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to place or sell equity or debt securities on terms acceptable to us and, if we sell equity, existing stockholders may suffer dilution (see Risk Factors, this section, entitled "Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect our ability to sell equity securities," and "Our outstanding options and warrants may adversely affect our ability to consummate future equity financings due to the dilution potential to future investors"). None of our drug candidates have been approved for sale by any regulatory agency; approval is required before we can sell drug products commercially. Our first drug candidate, pafuramidine, requires additional clinical testing, regulatory approval and development of marketing and distribution channels, all of which are expected to require substantial additional investment prior to commercialization. There can be no assurance that any of our drug candidates will be successfully developed, proven to be safe and effective in human clinical trials, meet applicable regulatory standards, be approved by regulatory authorities, be eligible for third-party reimbursement from governmental or private insurers, be successfully marketed or achieve market acceptance. If we are unable to commercialize our drug candidates in a timely manner we may be required to seek additional funding, reduce or cancel -34- some or all of our development programs, sell or license some of our proprietary information or cease operations. There are substantial uncertainties related to clinical trials that may result in the extension, modification or termination of one or more of our programs. In order to obtain required regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of our drug candidates, we must demonstrate through human clinical trials that our drug candidates are safe and effective for their intended uses. Prior to conducting human clinical trials we must obtain governmental approvals from the host nation, approval from the United States to export our drug candidate to the test site (if the test site is not in the United States) and qualify a sufficient number of volunteer patients that meet our trial criteria. If we do not obtain required governmental consents or if we do not enroll a sufficient number of patients in a timely manner or at all, our trial expenses could increase, results may be delayed or the trial may be cancelled. We may find, at any stage of our research and development and commercialization, that drug candidates that appeared promising in earlier clinical trials do not demonstrate safety or effectiveness in later clinical trials and therefore do not receive regulatory approvals. Despite the positive results of our preclinical testing and human clinical trials those results may not be predictive of the results of later clinical trials and large-scale testing. Companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in various stages of clinical trials, even after promising results had been obtained in early-stage human clinical trials. Completion of human clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including slower than anticipated patient enrollment, participant retention and follow up, difficulty in securing sufficient supplies of clinical trial materials or other adverse events occurring during clinical trials. For instance, once we obtain permission to run a human trial, there are strict criteria regulating who we can enroll in the trial. In the case of African sleeping sickness, we are subject to civil unrest in sub-Sahara Africa where local rebels could close clinics and dramatically reduce enrollment rates, and make it difficult to conduct trials. Political instability and the minimal infrastructure in the African countries where we conduct our African sleeping sickness trials may cause delays in enrollment and difficulty in the completion of trials. Completion of testing, studies and trials may take several years, and the length of time varies substantially with the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product. Delays or rejections may be based upon many factors, including changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development. No assurance can be given that any of our development programs will be successfully completed, that any IND application filed with the FDA (or any foreign equivalent filed with the appropriate foreign authorities) will become effective, that additional clinical trials will be allowed by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, or that clinical trials will commence as planned. There have been delays in our testing and development schedules due to the aforementioned conditions and funding and patient enrollment difficulties and there can be no assurance that our future testing and development schedules will be met. -35- We do not currently have pharmaceutical manufacturing and distribution capability, which could impair our ability to develop commercially viable products at reasonable costs. Our ability to commercialize drug candidates will depend in part upon our ability to have manufactured or develop the capability to manufacture our drug candidates and to distribute those goods, either directly or through third parties, at a competitive cost and in accordance with FDA and other regulatory requirements. We currently lack facilities and personnel to manufacture or distribute our drug candidates. There can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire such resources, either directly or through third parties, at reasonable costs, if we develop commercially viable products. We are dependent on third party relationships for critical aspects of our business; problems that develop in these relationships may increase costs and/or diminish our ability to develop our drug candidates. We use the expertise and resources of strategic partners and third parties in a number of key areas, including (i) discovery research, (ii) preclinical and human clinical trials, (iii) product development and (iv) manufacture of pharmaceutical drugs. We have a worldwide license and exclusive commercialization rights to a proprietary aromatic cation technology platform and are developing drugs intended for commercial use based on that platform. This strategy creates risks by placing critical aspects of our business in the hands of third parties, whom we may not be able to control. If these third parties do not perform in a timely and satisfactory manner, we may incur costs and delays as we seek alternate sources of such products and services, if available. Such costs and delays may have a material adverse effect on our business if the delays jeopardize our licensing arrangements by causing us to become non-compliant with certain license agreements. We may seek additional third party relationships in certain areas, particularly in clinical testing, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and other areas where pharmaceutical and biotechnology company collaborators will enable us to develop particular products or geographic markets that are otherwise beyond our current resources and/or capabilities. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such collaboration or any other research and development, clinical trial, manufacturing, marketing or distribution relationships. Our inability to obtain and maintain satisfactory relationships with third parties may have a material adverse effect on our business by slowing our ability to develop new products, requiring us to expand our internal capabilities, increasing our overhead and expenses, hampering future growth opportunities or causing us to delay or terminate affected programs. We are uncertain about our ability to protect or obtain necessary patents and protect our proprietary information; our ability to develop and commercialize drug candidates would be compromised without adequate intellectual property protection. We have spent and continue to spend considerable funds to develop our drug candidates and we are relying on the potential to exploit commercially without competition the results of our product development. Much of our intellectual property is licensed to us under various agreements including the Consortium Agreement, related License Agreement and the Tulane License Agreement. It is the primary responsibility of the discoverer to develop his, her or its -36- invention confidentially, insure that the invention is unique, and to obtain patent protection. In most cases, our role is to reimburse patent related costs after we decide to develop any such invention. We therefore rely on the inventors to insure that technology licensed to us is adequately protected. Without adequate protection for our intellectual property we believe our ability to realize profits on our future commercialized product would be diminished. Without protection, competitors might be able to copy our work and compete with our products without having invested in the development. There can be no assurance that any particular patent will be granted or that issued patents (issued to us directly or through licenses) will provide us with the intellectual property protection contemplated by such patents. Patents and licenses of patents can be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Patent litigation is expensive and time-consuming and the outcome cannot be predicted. It is also possible that competitors will develop similar products simultaneously. Our breach of any license agreement or the failure to obtain a license to any technology or process which may be required to develop or commercialize one or more of our drug candidates may have a material adverse effect on our business, including the need for additional capital to develop alternate technology, the potential that competitors may gain unfair advantage and lessen our expectation of potential future revenues. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology fields are characterized by a large number of patent filings, and a substantial number of patents have already been issued to other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Third parties may have filed applications for, or may have been issued, certain patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights related to products or processes competitive with or similar to those that we are attempting to develop and commercialize. We may not be aware of all of the patents potentially adverse to our interests that may have been issued to others. No assurance can be given that patents do not exist, have not been filed or could not be filed or issued, which contain claims relating to or competitive with our technology, drug candidates, product uses or processes. If patents have been or are issued to others containing preclusive or conflicting claims, then we may be required to obtain licenses to one or more of such patents or to develop or obtain alternative technology. There can be no assurance that the licenses or alternative technology that might be required for such alternative processes or products would be available on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. Because of the substantial length of time and expense associated with bringing new drug products to market through the development and regulatory approval process, the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries place considerable importance on patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. Since patent applications filed in the United States are confidential for eighteen months after filing and some are confidential until their date of issue as a patent and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we (or our licensors) were the first to make the inventions covered by pending patent applications or that we (or our licensors) were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, the breadth of claims allowed in pharmaceutical and biotechnology patents, or their enforceability, cannot be predicted. There can be no assurance that any patents under pending patent applications or any further patent applications will be issued. Furthermore, -37- there can be no assurance that the scope of any patent protection will exclude competitors or provide us competitive advantages, that any of our (or our licensors') patents that have been issued or may be issued will be held valid if subsequently challenged, or that others, including competitors or current or former employers of our employees, advisors and consultants, will not claim rights in, or ownership to, our (or our licensors') patents and other proprietary rights. There can be no assurance that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or otherwise obtain access to our proprietary information, or that others may not be issued patents that may require us to obtain a license for, and pay significant fees or royalties for, such proprietary information. We rely on technology developed by others and shared with collaborators to develop our drug candidates which puts our proprietary information at risk of unauthorized disclosure. We rely on trade secrets, know-how and technological advancement to maintain our competitive position. Although we use license agreements, confidentiality agreements and employee proprietary information and invention assignment agreements to protect our trade secrets and other unpatented know-how, these agreements may be breached by the other party thereto or may otherwise be of limited effectiveness or enforceability. We are licensed to commercialize technology from a proprietary aromatic cation technology platform developed by a scientific consortium, comprised primarily of scientists employed by universities in an academic setting. The academic world is improved by the sharing of information. As a business, however, the sharing of information whether through publication of research, academic lectures or general intellectual discourse among contemporaries is not conducive to protection of proprietary information. Our proprietary information may fall into the possession of unintended parties without our knowledge through customary academic information sharing. At times we may enter into confidentiality agreements with other companies, allowing them to test our technology for potential future licensing, in return for milestone and royalty payments should any discoveries result from the use of our proprietary information. We cannot be assured that such parties will honor these confidentiality agreements subjecting our intellectual property to unintended disclosure. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have experienced extensive litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We could incur substantial costs in defending suits that may be brought against us (or our licensors) claiming infringement of the rights of others or in asserting our (or our licensors') patent rights in a suit against another party. We may also be required to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office or similar foreign agency for the purpose of determining the priority of inventions in connection with our (or our licensors') patent applications. Adverse determinations in litigation or interference proceedings could require us to seek licenses (which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms) or subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, and could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business by increasing our expenses and having an adverse effect on our business. Even if we -38- prevail in an interference proceeding or a lawsuit, substantial resources, including the time and attention of our officers, would be required. Confidentiality agreements may not adequately protect our intellectual property which could result in unauthorized disclosure or use of our proprietary information. We require our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we share proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their relationship with us. The agreements generally provide that trade secrets and all inventions conceived by the individual and all confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the term of the relationship will be our exclusive property and will be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specified circumstances. There can be no assurance, however, that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. If our unpatented proprietary information is publicly disclosed before we have been granted patent protection, our competitors could be unjustly enriched and we could lose the ability to profitably develop products from such information. Our industry has significant competition; our drug candidates may become obsolete prior to commercialization due to alternative technologies thereby rendering our development efforts obsolete or non-competitive. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology fields are characterized by extensive research efforts and rapid technological progress. Competition from other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and research and academic institutions is intense and other companies are engaged in research and product development to treat the same diseases that we target. New developments in pharmaceutical and biotechnology fields are expected to continue at a rapid pace in both industry and academia. There can be no assurance that research and discoveries by others will not render some or all of our programs or products non-competitive or obsolete. We are aware of other companies and institutions dedicated to the development of therapeutics similar to those we are developing, including Sanofi-Aventis, Hoffman-LaRoche Ltd., Pfizer Inc., Novartis, and Bayer Corporation. Many of our existing or potential competitors have substantially greater financial and technical resources than we do and therefore may be in a better position to develop, manufacture and market pharmaceutical products. Many of these competitors are also more experienced performing preclinical testing and human clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approvals. The current or future existence of competitive products may also adversely affect the marketability of our drug candidates. In the event some or all of our programs are rendered non-competitive or obsolete, we do not currently have alternative strategies to develop new product lines or the financial resources to pursue such a course of action. -39- There is no assurance that we will receive FDA or corollary foreign approval for any of our drug candidates for any indication; we are subject to government regulation for the commercialization of our drug candidates. We have not made application to the FDA or any other regulatory agency to sell commercially or label any of our drug candidates. We or our collaborators have received licenses from the FDA to export pafuramidine for testing purposes and have previously been approved to conduct human clinical trials for various indications in each of the United States, Germany, France, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Angola, Thailand, Peru and South Africa. All new pharmaceutical drugs, including our drug candidates, are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by the federal government, principally the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act ("FDCA") and other laws and by applicable state, local and foreign governments. Such regulations govern, among other things, the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, pre-market clearance or approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of pharmaceutical drugs. If drug products are marketed abroad, they are subject to extensive regulation by foreign governments. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements may subject us to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions such as civil penalties, criminal prosecution, injunctions, product seizure or detention, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production and FDA refusal to approve pending applications. Each of our drug candidates must be approved for each indication for which we believe it to be viable. We have not yet determined from which regulatory agencies we will seek approval for our drug candidates or indications for which approval will be sought. Once determined, the approval process is subject to those agencies' policies and acceptance of those agencies' approvals, if obtained, in the countries where we intend to market our drug candidates. We have not received regulatory approval in the United States or any foreign jurisdiction for the commercial sale of any of our drug candidates. On April 23, 2004 the FDA granted fast-track designation for pafuramidine, our first drug candidate, for treatment of African sleeping sickness (trypanosomiasis). Fast-track designation means, among other things, that the FDA may accept initial late-stage data from us, rather than waiting for the entire Phase III clinical trial data to be submitted together, for consideration of approval to market the drug. There is, however, no guarantee that fast-track designation will result in faster product development or licensing approval or that our drug candidates will be approved at all. The process of obtaining FDA or other regulatory approvals, including foreign approvals, often takes many years and varies substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the products involved and the indications being studied. Furthermore, the approval process is extremely expensive and uncertain. There can be no assurance that our drug candidates will be approved for commercial sale in the United States by the FDA or regulatory agencies in foreign countries. The regulatory review process can take many years and we will need to raise additional funds to complete the regulatory review process for our current drug candidates. The failure to receive FDA or other governmental approval would have a material adverse effect on our business by precluding us from marketing and selling such products and negatively -40- impacting our ability to generate future revenues. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the labeling claims (a labeling claim is a product's description and its FDA permitted uses) necessary or desirable for the promotion of such product. FDA regulations prohibit the marketing or promotion of a drug for unapproved indications. Furthermore, regulatory marketing approval may entail ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies if regulatory approval is obtained; we will also be subject to ongoing FDA obligations and continued regulatory review. In particular, we, or our third party manufacturers, will be required to adhere to Good Manufacturing Practices ("GMP"), which require us (or our third party manufacturers) to manufacture products and maintain records in a prescribed manner with respect to manufacturing, testing and quality control. Further, we (or our third party manufacturers) must pass a manufacturing facilities pre-approval inspection by the FDA or corollary agency before obtaining marketing approval. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements may result in penalties, such as restrictions on a product's marketing or withdrawal of the product from the market. In addition, identification of certain side-effects after a drug is on the market or the occurrence of manufacturing problems could cause subsequent withdrawal of approval, reformulation of the drug, additional preclinical testing or clinical trials and changes in labeling of the product. Prior to the submission of an application for FDA or other regulatory approvals, our pharmaceutical drugs undergo rigorous preclinical and clinical testing, which may take several years and the expenditure of substantial financial and other resources. Before commencing clinical trials in humans in the United States, we must submit to the FDA and receive clearance of an IND. There can be no assurance that submission of an IND for future clinical testing of any of our drug candidates under development or other future drug candidates will result in FDA permission to commence clinical trials or that we will be able to obtain the necessary approvals for future clinical testing in any foreign jurisdiction. Further, there can be no assurance that if such testing of drug candidates under development is completed, any such drug compounds will be accepted for formal review by the FDA or any foreign regulatory agency or approved by the FDA for marketing in the United States or by any such foreign regulatory agencies for marketing in foreign jurisdictions. Our most advanced programs are developing products intended for sale in countries that may not have established pharmaceutical regulatory agencies. Some of the intended markets for our treatment of African sleeping sickness and malaria are in countries without developed pharmaceutical regulatory agencies. We plan in such cases to try first to obtain regulatory approval from a recognized pharmaceutical regulatory agency such as the FDA or one or more European agencies and then to apply to the targeted country for recognition of the foreign approval. Because the countries where we intend to market treatments for African sleeping sickness and malaria are not obligated to accept foreign regulatory approvals and because those countries do not have standards of their own for us to rely upon, we may be required to provide additional documentation or complete additional testing prior to distributing our products in those countries. There is uncertainty regarding the availability of health care reimbursement to prospective purchasers of our anticipated products; health care reform may negatively impact the ability of prospective purchasers of our anticipated products to pay for such products. -41- Our ability to commercialize any of our drug candidates will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of the resulting drug will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers, non-governmental organizations and others. Many of our drug candidates, including treatments for trypanosomiasis, malaria and tuberculosis, would be in the greatest demand in developing nations, many of which do not maintain comprehensive health care systems with the financial resources to pay for such drugs. We do not know to what extent governments, private charities, international organizations and others would contribute toward bringing newly developed drugs to developing nations. Even among drugs sold in developed countries, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. There can be no assurance of the availability of third party insurance reimbursement coverage enabling us to establish and maintain price levels sufficient for realization of a profit on our investment in developing pharmaceutical drugs. Government and other third-party payers are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new drug products approved for marketing by the FDA and by refusing, in some cases, to provide any coverage for uses of approved products for disease indications for which the FDA has not granted marketing approval. If adequate coverage and reimbursement levels are not provided by government and third-party payers for uses of our anticipated products, the market acceptance of these products would be adversely affected. Healthcare reform proposals are regularly introduced in the United States Congress and in various state legislatures and there is no guarantee that such proposals will not be introduced in the future. We cannot predict when any proposed reforms will be implemented, if ever, or the effect of any implemented reforms on our business. Implemented reforms may have a material adverse effect on our business by reducing or eliminating the availability of third-party reimbursement for our anticipated products or by limiting price levels at which we are able to sell such products. If reimbursement is not available for our products, health care providers may prescribe alternative remedies if available. Patients, if they cannot afford our products, may do without. In addition, if we are able to commercialize products in overseas markets, then our ability to achieve success in such markets may depend, in part, on the health care financing and reimbursement policies of such countries. We cannot predict changes in health care systems in foreign countries, and therefore, do not know the effects on our business of possible changes. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect our ability to sell equity securities. Sales of our common stock (including the issuance of shares upon conversion of preferred stock) in the public market could materially and adversely affect the market price of shares because prior sales have been executed at or below our current market price. We have outstanding five series of preferred stock that convert to common stock at prices equivalent to $4.42, $4.00, $4.42, $9.00 and $7.04, respectively, for our series A, series B, series C, series D and series E convertible preferred stock (subject to adjustment for stock splits, stock dividends and similar dilutive events). Our obligation to convert the preferred stock upon demand by the holders may depress the price of our common stock and also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. -42- As of June 2, 2006 we had 13,995,666 shares of common stock outstanding, plus (1) 58,400 shares of series A convertible preferred stock, convertible into approximately 330,316 shares of common stock at the conversion rate of 1:5.656, (2) 13,464 shares of series B Convertible Preferred stock convertible into approximately 84,150 shares of common stock at the conversion rate of 1:6.25, (3) 45,536 shares of series C convertible preferred stock convertible into approximately 257,556 shares of common stock at the conversion rate of 1:5.656, (4) 117,200 shares of series D convertible preferred stock convertible into approximately 325,558 shares of common stock at the conversion rate of 1:2.778, (5) 110,600 shares of series E convertible preferred stock convertible into approximately 392,757 shares of common stock at the conversion rate of 1:3.551, (6) 1,578,117 options to purchase shares of common stock with a weighted-average exercise price of $9.36 per share, and (7) 2,850,112 warrants to purchase shares of common stock with a weighted-average exercise price of $7.52. Of the shares outstanding, 12,191,206 shares of common stock are freely tradable without restriction. All of the remaining 1,804,460 shares are restricted from resale, except pursuant to certain exceptions under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). Our outstanding options and warrants may adversely affect our ability to consummate future equity financings due to the dilution potential to future investors. We have outstanding options and warrants for the purchase of shares of our common stock with exercise prices currently below market which may adversely affect our ability to consummate future equity financings. The holders of such warrants and options may exercise them at a time when we would otherwise be able to obtain additional equity capital on more favorable terms. To the extent any such options and warrants are exercised, the value of our outstanding shares of our common stock may be diluted. As of June 2, 2006, we have outstanding vested options to purchase 1,135,739 shares of common stock at a weighted-average exercise price of $9.78, and vested warrants to purchase 2,740,112 shares of common stock with a weighted-average price of $7.34 Due to the number of shares of common stock we are obligated to sell pursuant to outstanding options and warrants described above, potential investors may not purchase our future equity offerings at market price because of the potential dilution such investors may suffer as a result of the exercise of the outstanding options and warrants. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant volatility. The securities markets from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In addition, the market prices of the common stock of many publicly traded pharmaceutical companies have been and can be expected to be especially volatile. Our common stock price in the 52-week period ended (i) March 31, 2006 had a high of $13.89 and a low of $6.30 and (ii) June 9, 2006 had a high of $13.70 and a low of $6.30. Announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights, publicity regarding actual or potential clinical trial results relating to products under development by us or our competitors, regulatory developments in both the United States and foreign countries, delays in our testing and development schedules, public concern as to the -43- safety of pharmaceutical drugs and economic and other external factors, as well as period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. The realization of any of the risks described in these "Risk Factors" may have a significant adverse impact on such market prices. We may pay vendors in stock as consideration for their services; this may result in stockholder dilution, additional costs and difficulty retaining certain vendors. In order for us to preserve our cash resources, we have previously paid and may in the future pay vendors in shares, warrants or options to purchase shares of our common stock rather than cash. Payments for services in stock may materially and adversely affect our stockholders by diluting the value of outstanding shares of our common stock. In addition, in situations where we have agreed to register the shares issued to a vendor, this will generally cause us to incur additional expenses associated with such registration. Paying vendors in shares, warrants or options to purchase shares of common stock may also limit our ability to contract with the vendor of our choice should that vendor decline payment in stock. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. Until such time as we pay cash dividends, our stockholders must rely on increases in our stock price for appreciation. We have never declared or paid dividends on our common stock. We intend to retain future earnings to develop and commercialize our products and therefore we do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Until such time as we determine to pay cash dividends on our common stock, our stockholders must rely on increases in our common stock's market price for appreciation. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our resources, systems and controls may be strained and our operating results may suffer. We have recently added to our workforce and we plan to continue to increase the size of our workforce and scope of our operations as we continue our drug development programs and clinical trials and move towards commercialization of our products. This growth of our operations will place a significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. We may need to implement new and upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, including the improvement of our accounting and other internal management systems. These endeavors will require substantial management effort and skill, and we may require additional personnel and internal processes to manage these efforts. If we are unable to effectively manage our expanding operations, our revenue and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our continuing obligations as a public company under the laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("Sarbanes-Oxley Act") and related regulations, are likely to increase our expenses and administrative burden. Changes in the laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related regulations implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and self-regulatory organizations (e.g. the AMEX), are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial -44- compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We have and expect to continue to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management's time and attention from the business of the Company to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the conduct expected by regulatory or governing bodies, those authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. There are limitations on the liability of our directors, and we may have to indemnify our officers and directors in certain instances. Our certificate of incorporation limits, to the maximum extent permitted under Delaware law, the personal liability of our directors for monetary damages for breach of their fiduciary duties as directors. Our bylaws provide that we will indemnify our officers, directors, employees and other agents to the fullest extent permitted by law. These provisions may be in some respects broader than the specific indemnification provisions under Delaware law. The indemnification provisions may require us, among other things, to (i) indemnify such persons against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status with or service to the Company (other than liabilities arising from willful misconduct of a culpable nature), (ii) advance expenses incurred as a result of any proceeding against such persons as to which they could be indemnified and (iii) obtain directors' and officers' insurance. Section 145 of the Delaware General Corporation Law provides that a corporation may indemnify a director, officer, employee or agent made or threatened to be made a party to an action by reason of the fact that he or she was a director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation or was serving at the request of the corporation, against expenses actually and reasonably incurred in connection with such action if he or she acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe his or her conduct was unlawful. Delaware law does not permit a corporation to eliminate a director's duty of care and the provisions of our certificate of incorporation have no effect on the availability of equitable remedies, such as injunction or rescission, for a director's breach of the duty of care. We believe that our limitation of officer and director liability assists us to attract and retain qualified officers and directors. However, in the event an officer, a director or the board of directors commits an act that may legally be indemnified under Delaware law, we will be responsible to pay for such officer(s) or director(s) legal defense and potentially any damages resulting therefrom. Furthermore, the limitation on director liability may reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation against directors, and may discourage or deter stockholders from instituting litigation against directors for breach of their fiduciary duties, even though such an action, if successful, might benefit us and our stockholders. Given the difficult environment and potential for incurring liabilities currently facing directors of publicly-held corporations, we believe that director indemnification is in our and our stockholders' best interests because it -45- enhances our ability to attract and retain highly qualified directors and reduce a possible deterrent to entrepreneurial decision-making. Nevertheless, limitations of director liability may be viewed as limiting the rights of stockholders, and the broad scope of the indemnification provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could result in increased expenses. Our board of directors believes, however, that these provisions will provide a better balancing of the legal obligations of, and protections for, directors and will contribute positively to the quality and stability of our corporate governance. Our board of directors has concluded that the benefit to stockholders of improved corporate governance outweighs any possible adverse effects on stockholders of reducing the exposure of directors to liability and broadened indemnification rights. We are exposed to potential risks from recent legislation requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Among other things, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Compliance with Section 404 requires substantial accounting expense and significant management efforts. Our testing, or the subsequent review by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls that would require us to remediate in a timely manner so as to be able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 each year. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner each year, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the United States Securities Exchange Commission ("SEC"), the AMEX or other regulatory authorities that would require additional financial and management resources and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Product liability exposure may expose us to significant liability. We do not have pharmaceutical products for sale and we therefore do not carry product liability insurance. However, if we do commercialize drug products we will face risk of exposure to product liability and other claims and lawsuits in the event that the development or use of our technology or prospective products is alleged to have resulted in adverse effects. We may not be able to avoid significant liability exposure. We may not have sufficient insurance coverage and we may not be able to obtain sufficient coverage at a reasonable cost. An inability to obtain product liability insurance at acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products. A product liability claim could hurt our financial performance. Even if we avoid liability exposure, significant costs could be incurred, potentially damaging our financial performance. We do carry commercial general liability insurance and clinical trial insurance which covers our human clinical trial activities. -46- 