ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If we fail to successfully develop, introduce and sell new products, we may be unable to compete effectively in the future We operate in a highly competitive, quickly changing environment marked by rapid obsolescence of existing products. To compete successfully, we must obtain access to advanced fabrication capacity and dedicate significant resources to specify, design, develop, manufacture and sell new or enhanced products and solutions that provide increasingly higher levels of performance, low power consumption, new features, reliability and/or cost savings to our customers. We experience a long delay between the time when we expend these product definition and development resources and invest in related long-lived assets, and the time when we begin to generate revenue, if any, from these expenditures. We are marketing our PolarPro, Eclipse II and QuickPCI II products to new customers and markets and expect a significant portion of our future revenues to be generated from these new products. We believe our low power PolarPro, Eclipse II and QuickPCI II products and solutions based on these products have a compelling advantage in low power applications, and that this business will provide long-term revenue growth for QuickLogic, but there is no assurance when this will occur. Some of the opportunities for our new products are in the rapidly changing mobile market, which typically has shorter product lifecycles, higher volumes and greater price pressure than our traditional business. In order to react quickly to opportunities or to obtain favorable wafer prices, we have made significant investments in and commitments to purchase PolarPro and Eclipse II inventory. In addition, the nature of the mobile market and the customers that operate in this market may cause revenue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. For example, while our new product revenue increased in the second and third quarters of 2006, it declined in the fourth quarter of 2006 due to the maturity and product lifecycle of a significant customer for these products. If we are unable to design, produce and sell new solutions and products that meet design specifications, address customer requirements and generate sufficient revenue and gross profit, if market demand for our products fails to materialize, if we are unable to obtain adequate capacity on a timely basis, if we are unable to develop Custom Specific Standard Products, or CSSPs, or solutions in a timely manner, or if our customers do not successfully introduce products incorporating our devices, our revenue and gross margin will be materially harmed, our liquidity and cash flows will be materially effected, we may be required to write-off related inventory and long-lived assets or there may be other adverse effects on our business or the price of our common stock. We will be unable to compete effectively if we fail to anticipate product opportunities based upon emerging technologies and standards or fail to develop products and solutions that incorporate these technologies and standards in a timely manner We spend significant time and money to design and develop products and customer solutions around an industry standard, such as Universal Serial Bus, or USB, and Integrated Drive Electronics, or IDE, or emerging technologies, such as low power programmable logic, advanced process technology or small form factor packaging. We intend to develop additional products and solutions and adopt new technologies in the future. We expect other programmable product companies to expand their low power product offering and compete more directly with our lowest power products. If system manufacturers adopt alternative standards or technologies, if an industry standard or emerging technology that we have targeted fails to achieve broad market acceptance, if customers choose low power offerings from our competitors, or if we are unable to bring the technologies or solutions to market in a timely and effective manner, we may be unable to generate significant revenue from our research and development efforts. As a result, our business would be materially harmed and we may be required to write-off related inventory and long-lived assets. 19 We may be unable to accurately estimate quarterly revenue, which could adversely affect the trading price of our stock We offer our customers a short delivery lead-time and a majority of our shipments during a quarter are ordered by customers in that quarter. As a result, we often have low visibility to the current quarter’s revenue, and our revenue levels can change significantly in a short period of time. Furthermore, our ability to respond to increased demand is limited to inventory on hand or on order, the capacity available at our contract manufacturers and our capacity to program products to customer specifications. In addition, a significant portion of our revenue is deferred until our distributors ship unprogrammed parts to end customers since the price is not fixed or determinable until that time. Therefore, we are highly dependent on the accuracy and timeliness of resale and inventory reports from our distributors. Inaccurate distributor resale or inventory reports, as well as unanticipated changes in distributor inventory levels, could contribute to our difficulty in predicting and reporting our quarterly revenue and results of operations. If we fail to accurately estimate customer demand, record revenue, or if our available capacity is less than needed to meet customer demand, our results of operations could be harmed and our stock price could materially fluctuate. The announced end-of-life of our pASIC 1 and pASIC 2 products has resulted in a decline in our revenue Our foundry agreement with the supplier that fabricates our pASIC 1 and pASIC 2 products expired on December 31, 2005 and the supplier no longer has the necessary equipment to manufacture our products. We announced an end-of-life for these products in 2004 and asked our customers to take delivery of lifetime buy orders before the end of 2005. As a result, we have experienced a reduction in revenue from these products. Revenue from these products was $5.8 million and $21.1 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. A majority of our customers that use pASIC 1 and pASIC 2 products have either purchased sufficient quantities to satisfy their demand throughout the expected life of their products or have converted their designs to our other products, such as pASIC 3 which is pin compatible with pASIC 2. Future revenue from pASIC 1 and pASIC 2 products is limited to inventory on hand and we do not expect significant revenue from these products in 2007. Our operating results and liquidity have been adversely affected by the end-of-life of these products as we are currently operating at a net loss and expect negative cash flow at our current revenue level. To mitigate the affects of the end-of-life of our pASIC 1 and pASIC 2 products, we plan to develop customer demand for new products, such as PolarPro, Eclipse II and QuickPCI II, which have active customer designs but limited revenue history. The pASIC 1 and pASIC 2 revenue decline has been more rapid than the revenue growth from our PolarPro, Eclipse II, QuickPCI II and other products. While we expect revenue growth from PolarPro, Eclipse II, QuickPCI II, other products and new products will offset the decline in pASIC 1 and pASIC 2 revenue, there is no assurance when this will occur. We depend upon third parties to fabricate, assemble, test and program our products, and they may discontinue manufacturing our products, fail to give our products priority, be unable to successfully manufacture our products to meet performance, volume or cost targets, or inaccurately report inventory to us We contract with third parties to fabricate, assemble, test and program our devices. Our devices are generally fabricated, assembled and programmed by single suppliers, and the loss of a supplier, transfer of manufacturing to a new location, expiration of a supply agreement or the inability of our suppliers to manufacture our products to meet volume, performance and cost targets could have a material adverse effect on our business. For instance, our pASIC 1 and pASIC 2 devices were fabricated by a single supplier, and the expiration of this supply agreement has had a significant effect on our business. We recently announced the end-of-life of our V3 products, due primarily to a supplier’s decision to stop manufacturing these products. V3 products contributed $2.2 million and $3.6 million of revenue in 2006 and 2005, respectively, and we currently do not expect these devices to contribute significant revenue after 2007. Tower solely manufactures our PolarPro, Eclipse II, certain QuickPCI II, QuickMIPS and other new 20 products currently under development. In addition, demand for assembly capacity at our primary supplier may increase. For this and other reasons, capacity available to us may be constrained. Identifying and qualifying an additional assembly supplier is a time consuming and costly process and may require volume commitments that we may be unwilling or unable to make. We sell programmers to customers that are made by a single supplier. Programming capacity at our sub-contractors is also dependent on our investment in sufficient programming hardware to meet fluctuating demand. Our relationship with our suppliers could change as a result of a merger or acquisition. If for any reason these suppliers or any other vendor becomes unable or unwilling to continue to provide services of acceptable quality, at acceptable costs and in a timely manner, our ability to operate our business or deliver our products to our customers could be severely impaired. We would have to identify and qualify substitute suppliers, which could be time consuming, difficult and result in unforeseen operational problems, or we could announce an end-of-life program for these products, as we did with our pASIC 1 and pASIC 2 products. Alternate suppliers might not be available to fabricate, assemble, test and program our devices or, if available, might be unwilling or unable to offer services on acceptable terms. In addition, if competition for wafer manufacturing capacity increases, if we need to migrate to more advanced wafer manufacturing technology, or if competition for assembly services increases, we may be required to pay or invest significant amounts to secure access to this capacity. For example, in the second quarter of 2006, we entered into an agreement with Amkor to secure assembly capacity that required a payment of $1.0 million that is refundable if we meet certain volume commitments. The number of companies that provide these services is limited and some of them have limited operating histories and financial resources. In the event our current suppliers refuse or are unable to continue to provide these services to us, we may be unable to procure services from alternate suppliers in a timely manner, if at all. Furthermore, if customer demand for our products increases, we may be unable to secure sufficient additional capacity from our current suppliers on commercially reasonable terms. Moreover, our reliance on a limited number of suppliers subjects us to reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and costs. This lack of control may cause unforeseen product shortages or may increase our cost to manufacture and test our products, which would adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. We record a majority of our inventory transactions based on information from our subcontractors. If we do not receive prompt and accurate information from our vendors, we could misstate inventory levels, incorrectly record gross profit, be unable to meet our delivery commitments to customers or commit to manufacturing inventory that is not required to meet customer delivery commitments, which could materially harm our business. Our future results depend on our relationship with Tower We have invested approximately $21.3 million in Tower. In return for our investment, we received equity, prepaid wafer credits, favorable wafer pricing and committed production capacity in Tower’s foundry facility. We believe that Tower’s long-term operation of this fabrication facility depends on its ability to attract sufficient customer demand, to obtain additional financing, to increase capacity, to obtain the release of grants and approvals for changes in grant programs from the Israeli government’s Investment Center and its ability to remain in compliance with the terms of its grant and credit agreements. The current political uncertainty and security situation in the Middle East where Tower’s fabrication facility is located, the cyclical nature of the market for foundry manufacturing services, Tower’s financial condition, or other factors may adversely impact Tower’s business prospects and may discourage future investments in Tower from outside sources. If Tower is unable to obtain adequate financing and increase production output in a timely manner, the value of our investment in Tower may decline significantly or possibly become worthless, our wafer credit from Tower may decline in value or possibly become worthless, and we would have to identify and qualify a substitute supplier to manufacture our products. This could require significant development time, cause product shipment delays, impair long-lived assets and the value of our wafer credits, damage our liquidity and severely harm our business. In 21 addition, Tower is the sole manufacturer of our PolarPro, Eclipse II, certain QuickPCI II, QuickMIPS and other new products currently under development. The value of our investment in Tower and its corresponding wafer credits may also be adversely affected by a deterioration of conditions in the market for foundry manufacturing services and the market for semiconductor products. At the end of 2006, the value of our Tower investment was $2.3 million and the value of our wafer credits recorded on our balance sheets was $3.6 million. If the fair value of our Tower investment or our wafer credits are deemed to be impaired, we will record charges to our statement of operations. For instance, we wrote down the Tower shares due to an “other than temporary” decline in their market value by $1.5 million, $1.5 million, $3.8 million and $6.8 million in fiscal 2005, 2004, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Our customers may cancel or change their product plans after we have expended substantial time and resources in the design of their products Our customers often evaluate our products for six months or more before designing them into their systems, and they may not commence volume shipments for up to an additional six to twelve months, if at all. During this lengthy sales cycle, our potential customers may cancel or change their product plans. In addition, customers may discontinue products incorporating our devices at any time or they may choose to replace our products with lower cost semiconductors. If customers cancel, reduce or delay product orders from us or choose not to release products that incorporate our devices after we have spent substantial time and resources in assisting them with their product design, our revenue levels may be less than anticipated and our business could be materially harmed. We are expending substantial time and effort to develop solutions with partners that depend on the availability and success of technology owned by the partner Our approach to developing solutions for potential customers involves: (1) embedded processors developed by companies such as Marvell Semiconductor, Inc., who recently purchased the XScale business unit from Intel, and Analog Devices, Inc.; (2) peripheral devices developed by other parties such as micro hard disk drives, Wi-Fi devices and NAND flash memory; and (3) specific industry standards such as PCI, IDE and Secure Digital Input/Output, or SDIO. We have entered into informal partnerships with other parties that involve the development of solutions that interface with their devices or standards. These informal partnerships also may involve joint marketing campaigns and sales calls. For example, we have developed a solution incorporating a specific embedded processor, a micro hard disk drive and our Eclipse II device that improves performance and lowers the overall power consumption of an application. If our solutions are not incorporated into customer products, if our partners discontinue production of or incorporate our solution into their product offerings, or if the informal partnerships are significantly reduced or terminated by acquisition or other means, our revenue and gross margin will be materially harmed and we may be required to write-off related long-lived assets. We have significant customers and limited visibility into the long-term demand for our products from these customers A few end customers can represent a significant portion of our total revenue in a given reporting period and the likelihood of this occurring will increase in the future as we target high-volume mobile applications. As in the past, future demand from these customers may fluctuate significantly. These customers typically order products with short requested delivery lead times, and do not provide a commitment to purchase product past the period covered by purchase orders, which may be rescheduled or cancelled. In addition, our manufacturing lead times are longer than the delivery lead times requested by these customers, and we make significant inventory purchases and capital expenditures in anticipation of future demand. For example, a domestic OEM of instrumentation and test equipment accounted for 13% of revenue in both 2005 and 2006 and a European telecommunications OEM customer, purchasing 22 product through their contract manufacturer, represented 14% of revenue in 2006. If revenue from any significant customer were to decline substantially, we may be unable to offset this decline with increased revenue from other customers and we may purchase excess inventory. These factors could severely harm our business. In addition, we may make a significant investment in long-lived assets for the production of our products based upon historical and expected demand. If demand for or gross margin generated from our products does not meet our expectations or if we are unable to collect amounts due from significant customers, we may be required to write-off inventory, provide for uncollectible accounts receivable or incur charges against long-lived assets, which would materially harm our business. We may not have the liquidity to support our future operations and capital requirements Our cash and cash equivalents balance at the end of 2006 was $24.6 million. At the end of 2006, our interest-bearing debt consisted of $2.5 million outstanding from Silicon Valley Bank and $1.4 million outstanding under capital leases. On June 30, 2006, we amended and restated our credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank. Terms of the agreement include a $5.0 million revolving line of credit available through June 2008 and $2.0 million of borrowing capacity under an equipment line of credit that is available to be drawn through June 2007. At the end of 2006, we had $5.0 million available to borrow under our revolving credit facility and $442,000 available to borrow under our equipment line of credit. At the end of 2006, we held 1,344,543 Tower ordinary shares available for sale valued at approximately $2.3 million based upon the market closing price of $1.71 per share at the end of the reporting period. Our ability to obtain competitive pricing from Tower is tied to our ownership of at least 450,000 of these Tower shares. Capital expenditures, which are largely driven by development activities and the introduction and initial manufacturing of new products, could be up to $4.0 million in the next twelve months. At the end of 2006, we had commitments to purchase $2.1 million of wafer inventory. As a result of potential investments, current revenue and operating expense levels, changes in working capital and interest and debt payments, we will need to generate significantly higher revenue and gross profit, especially from our new PolarPro, Eclipse II and QuickPCI II products and products currently under development, to generate positive cash flow. In addition, these new products have been generating lower gross margin as a percentage of revenue than the rest of our historical business due to the markets that we have targeted and the larger order quantities associated with these applications. Whether we can achieve cash flow levels sufficient to support our operations cannot be accurately predicted. Unless such cash flow levels are achieved, we may borrow additional funds or sell debt or equity securities, or some combination thereof, to provide funding for our operations. If adequate funds are not available when needed, our financial condition and operating results would be materially adversely affected and we may not be able to operate our business without significant changes in our operations, or at all. We may be unable to successfully grow our business if we fail to compete effectively with others to attract and retain key personnel We believe our future success will depend upon our ability to attract and retain engineers and other highly competent personnel. Our employees are at-will and not subject to employment contracts. Hiring and retaining qualified sales, technical and financial personnel is difficult due to the limited number of qualified professionals, economic conditions and the size of our company. Competition for these types of employees is intense. In addition, new hires frequently require extensive training before they achieve desired levels of productivity. We have in the past experienced difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified senior management, sales, finance and technical personnel. Failure to attract, hire, train and retain personnel could materially harm our business. 23 If we fail to adequately forecast demand for our products, we may incur product shortages or excess product inventory Our agreements with certain third-party manufacturers require us to provide forecasts of our anticipated manufacturing orders, and place binding manufacturing commitments in advance of receiving purchase orders from our customers. We are limited in our ability to increase or decrease our forecasts under such agreements. Other manufacturers supply us product on a purchase order basis. The allocation of capacity is determined solely by our suppliers over which we have no direct control. Additionally, we may place orders on our vendors in advance of customer orders to allow us to quickly respond to changing customer demand or to obtain favorable product costs. Furthermore, we provide our suppliers with equipment which is used to program our products to customer specifications. The programming equipment is manufactured to our specifications and has significant order lead-times. These factors may result in product shortages or excess product inventory. Obtaining additional supply in the face of product, programming equipment or capacity shortages may be costly, or not possible, especially in the short term since most of our products and programming equipment are supplied by a single vendor. Our failure to adequately forecast demand for our products could materially harm our business. Fluctuations in our manufacturing processes, yields and quality, especially for new products, may increase our costs Difficulties encountered during the complex semiconductor manufacturing process can render a substantial percentage of semiconductor devices nonfunctional. New manufacturing techniques or fluctuations in the manufacturing process may change the performance distribution and yield of our products. We have, in the past, experienced manufacturing runs that have contained substantially reduced or no functioning devices, or that generated devices with below normal performance characteristics. Our reliance on third party suppliers may extend the period of time required to analyze and correct these problems. Once corrected, our customers may be required to redesign or requalify their products. As a result, we may incur substantially higher manufacturing costs, inventory shortages or reduced customer demand. Yield fluctuations frequently occur in connection with the manufacture of newly introduced products, with changes in product architecture, with manufacturing at new facilities, on new fabrication processes or in conjunction with new backend manufacturing processes. Newly introduced solutions and products, such as our CSSPs, PolarPro products and Eclipse II products, are often more complex and more difficult to produce, increasing the risk of manufacturing-related defects. New manufacturing facilities or processes, such as at Tower, are often more complex and take a period of time to achieve expected quality levels and manufacturing efficiencies. While we test our products, including our software development tools, they may still contain errors or defects that are found after we have commenced commercial production, that occur due to manufacturing variations or that are identified as new intellectual property is incorporated into our products. If our products or software development tools contain undetected or unresolved defects, we may lose market share, experience delays in or loss of market acceptance, reserve or scrap inventory, or be required to issue a product recall. In addition, we would be at risk of product liability litigation if defects in our products were discovered. Although we attempt to limit our liability to end users through disclaimers of special, consequential and indirect damages and similar provisions, we cannot assure you that such limitations of liability will be legally enforceable. We have a history of losses and cannot assure you that we will again be profitable in the future We incurred significant losses in 2006, 2004, 2003 and 2002. Our accumulated deficit as of the end of 2006 was $127.5 million. Although we recorded net income of $2.4 million in 2005, we recorded a net loss of $9.2 million in 2006 and we may not return to profitability in any future periods. 24 We depend upon third party distributors to market and sell our products, and they may discontinue sale of our products, fail to give our products priority or be unable to successfully market, sell and support our products We contract with third-party distributors to market and sell a significant portion of our products. We typically have only a few distributors serving each geographic market, and, in the future, we may have a single distributor covering a geographic market. Although we have contracts with our distributors, our agreements with them may be terminated on short notice by either party and, if terminated, we may be unable to recruit additional or replacement distributors. Additionally, distributors that we have contracted with may acquire, be acquired or merge with other distributors which may result in the termination of our contract or less effort being placed on the marketing, sale and support of our products and solutions. As a result, our future performance will depend in part on our ability to retain our existing distributors and to attract new distributors that will be able to effectively market, sell and support our products and solutions. The loss of one or more of our principal distributors, or our inability to attract new distributors, could materially harm our business. Many of our distributors, including our principal distributors, market and sell products for other companies. Many of these products may compete directly or indirectly with our products and solutions. Also, we generally are not one of the principal suppliers of products to our distributors. If our distributors give higher priority or greater attention to the products of other companies, including products that compete with our products and solutions, our business would be materially harmed. Individual distributors and original equipment manufacturers often represent a significant portion of our accounts receivable. If we are unable to collect funds due from these distributors and customers, our financial results may be materially harmed. Our future operating results are likely to fluctuate and therefore may fail to meet expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline Our operating results have varied widely in the past and are likely to do so in the future. In addition, our past operating results may not be an indicator of future operating results. Our future operating results will depend on many factors and may fail to meet our expectations for a number of reasons, including those set forth in these risk factors. Any failure to meet expectations could cause our stock price to significantly fluctuate or decline. Factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate include: · the effect of end-of-life programs; · a significant change in sales to, or the collectibility of accounts receivable from, our largest customers; · successful development and market acceptance of our products and solutions; · our ability to accurately forecast product volumes and mix, and to respond to rapid changes in customer demand; · changes in sales volume, product mix, average selling prices or production variances that affect gross profit; · our ability to adjust our product features, manufacturing capacity and costs in response to economic and competitive pressures; · our reliance on subcontract manufacturers for product capacity, yield and quality; · our competitors’ product portfolio and product pricing policies; · timely implementation of efficient manufacturing technologies; 25 · changes in or errors in applying accounting and corporate governance rules; · the issuance of stock options, or changes in the terms of our employee stock purchase plan; · mergers or acquisitions; · the impact of import and export laws and regulations; · the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and general economic, market, political and social conditions in the countries where we sell our products and the related effect on our customers, distributors and suppliers; and · our ability to obtain capital, debt financing and insurance on commercially reasonable terms. Although certain of these factors are out of our immediate control, unless we can anticipate and be prepared with contingency plans that respond to these factors, our business may be materially harmed. We may encounter periods of industry-wide semiconductor oversupply, resulting in pricing pressure, as well as undersupply, resulting in a risk that we could be unable to fulfill our customers’ requirements The semiconductor industry has historically been characterized by wide fluctuations in the demand for, and supply of, its products. These fluctuations have resulted in circumstances when supply of and demand for semiconductors have been widely out of balance. An industry-wide semiconductor oversupply could result in severe downward pricing pressure from customers. In a market with undersupply of manufacturing capacity, we would have to compete with larger foundry and assembly customers for limited manufacturing resources. In such an environment, we may be unable to have our products manufactured in a timely manner, at a cost that generates adequate gross profit, or in sufficient quantities. Since we outsource all of our manufacturing and generally have a single-source of wafer supply, test, assembly and programming for our products, we are particularly vulnerable to such supply shortages and capacity limitations. As a result, we may be unable to fulfill orders and may lose customers. Any future industry-wide oversupply or undersupply of semiconductors could materially harm our business. Customers may cancel or defer significant purchase orders or our distributors may return our products, which would cause our inventory levels to increase and our revenue to decline Our distributors or customers may cancel purchase orders at any time with little or no penalty. Contractually, our distributors are generally permitted to return unprogrammed products worth up to 10%, by value, of the products they purchase from us. If our distributors or customers cancel or defer significant purchase orders or return our products, our accounts receivable collections would decrease and inventories would increase, which would materially harm our business. Problems associated with international business operations could affect our ability to manufacture and sell our products Most of our products are manufactured outside of the United States at manufacturing facilities operated by our suppliers in Taiwan, South Korea, the Philippines, Israel and Malaysia. We expect to manufacture a majority of our new products and the products that we currently have under development in Israel and to assemble these products in South Korea, the Philippines, Malaysia, or China. As a result, these manufacturing operations and new product introductions are subject to risks of political instability, including the risk of conflict between Taiwan and the People’s Republic of China, between South Korea and North Korea, and conflicts involving Israel or Malaysia. 26 A significant portion of our total revenue comes from sales to customers located outside the United States. We anticipate that sales to customers located outside the United States will continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenue in future periods. In addition, most of our domestic customers sell their products outside of North America, thereby indirectly exposing us to risks associated with foreign commerce and economic instability. In addition to overseas sales offices, we have significant research and development activities in Canada and India. Accordingly, our operations and revenue are subject to a number of risks associated with foreign commerce, including the following: · managing foreign distributors; · collecting amounts due; · staffing and managing foreign offices; · political and economic instability; · foreign currency exchange fluctuations; · changes in tax laws, import and export regulations, tariffs and freight rates; · timing and availability of export licenses; · supplying products that meet local environmental regulations; and · inadequate protection of intellectual property rights. In the past, we have denominated sales of our products to foreign countries exclusively in U.S. dollars. As a result, any increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the local currency of a foreign country will increase the price of our products in that country so that our products become relatively more expensive to customers in their local currency. As a result, sales of our products in that foreign country may decline. To the extent any such risks materialize, our business could be materially harmed. In addition, we incur costs in foreign countries that may be difficult to reduce quickly because of employee-related laws and practices in those foreign countries. Many system manufacturers may be unwilling to switch to our products because of their familiarity with the products offered by our direct competitors, such as Xilinx and Altera, which dominate the programmable logic market The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and characterized by: · erosion of selling prices over product lives; · rapid technological change; · short product lifecycles; and · strong domestic and foreign competition. If we are not able to compete successfully in this environment, our business will be materially harmed. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, sales, distribution, name recognition and other resources than we do. In addition, many of our competitors have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers and have extensive knowledge of system applications. In the past, we have lost potential customers to competitors for various reasons, including, but not limited to, re-programmability and lower price. Our current direct competitors include suppliers of complex programmable logic devices and field programmable gate arrays, such as Xilinx, Inc., Altera Corporation, Actel Corporation and Lattice Semiconductor Corporation. Xilinx and Altera 27 together have a majority share of the programmable logic market. Many system manufacturers may be unwilling or unable to switch to our products due to their familiarity with competitors’ products or other inhibiting factors. We also face competition from companies that offer ASICs, which may be purchased for a lower price at higher volumes and typically have greater logic capacity, additional features and higher performance than those of our products. We may also face competition from suppliers of embedded microprocessors, such as Freescale Semiconductor, Inc., or from suppliers of products based on new or emerging technologies. Our inability to successfully compete in any of the following areas could materially harm our business: · the development of new products, solutions and advanced manufacturing technologies; · the quality, power characteristics, performance characteristics, price and availability of devices, programming hardware and software development tools; · the ability to engage with companies that provide synergistic products and services; · the incorporation of industry standards in our products and solutions; · the diversity of product offerings available to customers; or · the quality and cost effectiveness of design, development, manufacturing and marketing efforts. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, and may face significant expenses as a result of future litigation Protection of intellectual property rights is crucial to our business, since that is how we keep others from copying the innovations that are central to our existing and future products. From time to time, we receive letters alleging patent infringement or inviting us to license other parties’ patents. We evaluate these requests on a case-by-case basis. These situations may lead to litigation if we reject the offer to obtain the license. In the past, we have been involved in litigation relating to alleged infringement by us of others’ patents or other intellectual property rights. This kind of litigation is expensive and consumes large amounts of management’s time and attention. Additionally, matters that we initially consider not material to our business could become costly. For example, we incurred substantial costs associated with the litigation and settlement of our dispute with Actel, which materially harmed our business. In addition, if the letters we sometimes receive alleging patent infringement or other similar matters result in litigation that we lose, a court could order us to pay substantial damages and/or royalties, and prohibit us from making, using, selling or importing essential technologies. For these and other reasons, this kind of litigation could materially harm our business. Although we may seek to obtain a license under a third party’s intellectual property rights in order to bring an end to certain claims or actions asserted against us, we may not be able to obtain such a license on reasonable terms, or at all. We have entered into technology license agreements with third parties which give those parties the right to use patents and other technology developed by us and which give us the right to use patents and other technology developed by them. We anticipate that we will continue to enter into these kinds of licensing arrangements in the future; however, it is possible that desirable licenses will not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. If we lose existing licenses to key technology, or are unable to enter into new licenses that we deem important, our business could be materially harmed. Because it is critical to our success that we continue to prevent competitors from copying our innovations, we intend to continue to seek patent and trade secret protection for our products. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive, and we cannot be certain that any currently 28 pending or future applications will actually result in issued patents, or that, even if patents are issued, they will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. Furthermore, others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology or design around the patents we own. We also rely on trade secret protection for our technology, in part through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties. However, these parties may breach these agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. In any case, others may come to know about or determine our trade secrets through a variety of methods. In addition, the laws of certain territories in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We may engage in manufacturing, distribution or technology agreements that involve numerous risks, including the use of cash, diversion of resources and significant write-offs We have entered into and, in the future, intend to enter into agreements that involve numerous risks, including the use of significant amounts of our cash; diversion of resources from other development projects or market opportunities; our ability to incorporate licensed technology in our products and solutions; our ability to introduce related products in a cost-effective and timely manner; our ability to collect amounts due under these contracts; and market acceptance of related products. For instance, we have licensed certain microprocessor technology from MIPS Technologies and obtained other elements of our products from third-party companies. In the fourth quarter of 2004, we determined that the expected revenue and gross profit from these products would not be sufficient to recover the full carrying value of the acquired technology and other long-lived assets, and we recorded a $3.2 million long-lived asset impairment charge. If we fail to recover the cost of these or other assets from the cash flow generated by the related products, our assets will become impaired and our financial results would be harmed. Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, other catastrophic events and business interruptions for which we may maintain limited insurance Our operations and the operations of our suppliers are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, flood, terrorist acts and other catastrophic events beyond our control. In particular, our headquarters are located near earthquake fault lines in the San Francisco Bay Area. In addition, we rely on sole suppliers to manufacture our products and would not be able to qualify an alternate supplier of our products for several quarters. Our suppliers often hold significant quantities of our inventory which, in the event of a disaster, could be destroyed. In addition, our business processes and systems are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. Any catastrophic event, such as an earthquake or other natural disaster, the failure of our computer systems, war or acts of terrorism, could significantly impair our ability to maintain our records, pay our suppliers, or design, manufacture or ship our products. The occurrence of any of these events could also affect our customers, distributors and suppliers and produce similar disruptive effects upon their business. If there is an earthquake or other catastrophic event near our headquarters, our customers’ facilities, our distributors’ facilities or our suppliers’ facilities, our business could be seriously harmed. We do not have a detailed disaster recovery plan. In addition, we do not maintain sufficient business interruption and other insurance policies to compensate us for all losses that may occur. Any losses or damages incurred by us as a result of a catastrophic event or any other significant uninsured loss could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our principal stockholders have significant voting power and may vote for actions that may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders Our officers, directors and principal stockholders together control a significant portion of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, will be able to significantly 29 influence our operations, affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might affect the market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may not be in the best interest of our other stockholders. Our Shareholder Rights Plan, Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage a takeover that is beneficial to stockholders Our Shareholder Rights Plan as well as provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation, our Bylaws and Delaware law could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly and could lead to securities litigation Stock prices for many companies in the technology and emerging growth sectors have experienced wide fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. In the future, we may be the subject of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention. Changes to existing accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices may cause adverse revenue fluctuations, affect our reported results of operations or how we conduct our business Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP, are promulgated by, and are subject to the interpretation of the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, and the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. New accounting pronouncements or taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements or taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. Any future changes in accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices may have a significant effect on how we report our results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. In addition, a review of existing or prior accounting practices may result in a change in previously reported amounts. This change to existing rules, future changes, if any, or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results, our ability to remain listed on the Nasdaq Global Market, or the way we conduct our business and subject us to regulatory inquiries or litigation. For example, FASB has issued SFAS No. 123(R), “Share-Based Payment,” which we adopted in the first quarter of 2006. SFAS 123(R) requires us to measure compensation costs for all stock-based compensation awards (including our stock options and our employee stock purchase plan, as currently constructed) at fair value and record compensation expense over the vesting period. If this accounting pronouncement had been in effect during 2005, we would have reported a net loss. Additionally, in July 2006 we initiated a review of our historical stock option practices and related accounting. This review identified accounting and administrative errors that, if they had been recorded at the time they occurred, would have resulted in total additional charges of approximately $964,000 between October 1999 and December 2005. Compliance with changing regulations related to corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and the Nasdaq National Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing 30 bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from profit-generating activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed and the market price of our common stock could be affected. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance of achieving financial reporting objectives because of its inherent limitations. Internal control over financial reporting is a process that involves human diligence and compliance and is subject to lapses in judgment and breakdowns resulting from human failures. Internal control over financial reporting also can be circumvented by collusion or improper management override. Because of such limitations, there is a risk that material misstatements may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by internal control over financial reporting. However, these inherent limitations are known features of the financial reporting process. Therefore, it is possible to design into the process safeguards to reduce, though not eliminate, this risk. As of December 2006, we have evaluated our internal control systems in order to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As a result of our internal review of stock option granting practices and related accounting, we have identified and are implementing enhanced controls and process improvements in connection with the issuance of equity awards. However, our internal review has not identified any weaknesses in our existing internal control systems. We performed the system and process evaluation and testing required in an effort to comply with the management certification and independent registered public accounting firm attestation requirements of Section 404. As a result, we incurred additional expenses and a diversion of management’s time. While we believe that our internal control procedures are adequate and we intend to continue to fully comply with the requirements relating to internal control and all other aspects of Section 404, our controls necessary for continued compliance with the Act may not operate effectively at all times and may result in a material control disclosure. The identification of a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting, if any, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate consolidated financial statements. Furthermore, we cannot be certain as to the outcome of future evaluations, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. If we are not able to remain in compliance with the requirements of Section 404, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or the Nasdaq National Market. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock. We have implemented import and export control procedures to comply with United States regulations but we are still exposed to potential risks from import and export activity Our products, solutions, technology and software are subject to import and export control laws and regulations which, in some instances, may impose restrictions on business activities, or otherwise require licenses or other authorizations from agencies such as the U.S. Department of State, U.S. Department of Commerce and U.S. Department of the Treasury. These restrictions may impact deliveries to customers or 31 limit development and manufacturing alternatives. We have import and export licensing and compliance procedures in place for purposes of conducting our business consistent with U.S. and applicable international laws and regulations, and we periodically review these procedures to maintain compliance with the requirements relating to import and export regulations. If we are not able to remain in compliance with import and export regulations, we might be subject to investigation, sanctions or penalties by regulatory authorities. Such penalties can include civil, criminal or administrative remedies such as loss of export privileges. We cannot be certain as to the outcome of an evaluation, investigation, inquiry or other action or the impact of these items on our operations. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock. As a result of our internal stock option review, the SEC has opened an informal inquiry into our stock option granting practices and related accounting that may not be resolved favorably and may require a significant amount of management time and attention and accounting and legal resources, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and cash flows During 2006, the SEC opened an informal inquiry into our historical stock option practices and related accounting. The period of time necessary to resolve the SEC inquiry is uncertain and could require significant management and financial resources that could otherwise be devoted to the operation of our business. In addition, considerable legal and accounting expenses related to these matters may be incurred in the future. We cannot predict the outcome of the SEC inquiry. If we or any of our current or former officers or directors is subject to an adverse finding resulting from the SEC inquiry, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed upon us which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position, cash flows and the trading price of our securities. In addition, if the inquiry continues for a prolonged period of time, this could have the same effects, regardless of the outcome. If we do not maintain compliance with the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Global Market, our common stock could be delisted, which could, among other things, reduce the price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders Our securities could be delisted in the future if we do not maintain compliance with applicable listing requirements. If our securities were delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market, they would subsequently be transferred to the National Quotation Service Bureau, or “Pink Sheets.” The trading of our common stock on the Pink Sheets may reduce the price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. In addition, the trading of our common stock on the Pink Sheets will materially adversely affect our access to capital markets and our ability to raise capital through alternative financing sources on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Securities that trade on the Pink Sheets are no longer eligible for margin loans, and a company trading on the Pink Sheets cannot avail itself of federal preemption of state securities, or “blue sky,” laws, which adds substantial compliance costs to securities issuances, including shares issued pursuant to employee option plans, stock purchase plans and private or public offerings of securities. If we are delisted in the future from the Nasdaq Global Market and transferred to the Pink Sheets, there may also be other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees and the loss of institutional investor interest in our company. Our directors and management have been named parties to two lawsuits related to our historical stock option practices and related accounting, and we may be named in additional litigation in the future, all of which could result in an unfavorable outcome and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price for our securities Two lawsuits have been filed against the Company, our current directors and officers and certain of our former directors and officers relating to our historical stock option practices and related accounting. 32 We may become the subject of additional private or government actions regarding these matters in the future. These actions are in the preliminary stages, and their ultimate outcome could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price for our securities. Litigation may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations, and the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict. The defense of these lawsuits will result in significant expenditures and the continued diversion of our management’s time and attention from the operation of our business, which could impede our business. All or a portion of any amount we may be required to pay to satisfy a judgment or settlement, of any or all of these claims, if any, may not be covered by insurance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS On March 13, 2007, we received a comment letter from the SEC relating to our Form 8-K filed on January 31, 2007 in which the SEC asked that we remove from future filings the non-GAAP statements of operations and instead disclose only those non-GAAP measures used by management that we wish to highlight to investors with the appropriate reconciliations. We intend to respond to this comment letter from the SEC by the specified date in the comment letter. 