D. Risk Factors The Company is subject to a number of risks due to the nature of its business and the present stage of development of business. The following factors should be considered: As of December 31, 2011 CCL has incurred a cumulative net loss of $72,062,469 (2010:$71,433,702). We anticipate generating losses for at least the next 12 months. Therefore, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue operations in the future as a going concern as described in the Comments for US Readers on Canada. The financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded assets, or the amounts of and classification of liabilities that might be necessary in the event the Company cannot continue in existence. Plans to deal with this uncertainty include raising additional capital or entering into a strategic arrangement with a third party. If the Company cannot continue as a viable entity, the shareholders may lose some or all of their investment in the company. CCL’s product line of Sky Games® and Sky Play® are marketed to the world’s airlines. CCL’s future must be considered in light of the continuing financial difficulties the airline industry is experiencing globally. As a result of global financial difficulties continues, our marketing efforts may not generate additional licenses requested from airlines. SOFTWARE The value of CCL’s product line is in the software. The Sky Games Gambling Software remains unique in the marketplace, adaptable to the various airline in-flight entertainment systems. The Sky Play Software is utilized on older platforms still being used throughout the world. As with all software, the risks lie in it becoming obsolete overnight. COMPETITION There are numerous entities offering similar products to CCL’s Sky Play® PC Interactive Games product line. It is the increase in the availability of similar PC based entertainment games, and the lack of a dedicated marketing consultant that has reduced CCL’s client base. The marketplace for the Sky Games® Interactive Gaming System, CCL’s main product line, is not well established. However the Gaming Industry as a whole internationally is constantly undergoing changes, is intensely competitive, and is subject to changes in customer attitudes, morals and preferences. New products are being developed continuously by the Gaming Industry in order to satisfy customer demands. The Sky Games® Interactive Gaming System is one of those products. Changes in International Governmental regulations and laws are in a constant state of flux, and could adversely affect the ability of the Airlines to install such a system. Changes in policies of companies or banks that handle payment processing systems or credit card transactions for gaming industry could have an adverse impact on the operation of the Sky Games® System. RELIANCE ON EMPLOYEES CCL relies on its management and outsourced services for the business and corporate operations. None of our executive officers have sufficient technical training or experience in marketing for the products. As such, qualified consultants will have to be hired to perform these functions. Consequently, operations, earnings and ultimate financial success could suffer irreparable harm due to management's lack of experience in this industry. As a result operations may have to be suspended or ceased which will result in the loss of your investment. Creator Capital Limited. December 31, 2011 20-F Page.3 ABILITY TO RAISE CAPITAL As CCL has not generated sufficient revenue to fund its operations, additional funds will be required to meet n-going obligations and in the future. As a result, additional capital will be required to effectively support the operations and to otherwise implement our overall business strategy. The inability to obtain additional capital will restrict our ability to grow and may reduce the Company’s ability to continue to conduct business operations. If additional financing cannot be obtained, development plans will likely be required to be curtailed which could cause the Company to become dormant. Any additional equity financing may involve substantial dilution to the then existing shareholders. 