D. Risk Factors The Corporation is subject to a number of risks due to the nature of its business and the present stage of development of business. The following factors should be considered: To date, CCL’s operations have generated sufficient cash flow to fund ongoing operational requirements and cash requirements. Although CCL believes it has sufficient capital and cash flow to fund current operations, its ability to continue operations is dependent upon the ability to obtain additional financing and new clients. CCL’s product line of Sky Games® and Sky Play® are marketing to the world’s airlines. CCL’s future must be considered in light of the continuing financial difficulties the airline industry is experiencing globally. SOFTWARE The value of CCL’s product line is in the software which must be continually updated to retain its competitive technical edge in the marketplace. COMPETITION There are numerous entities offering similar products to CCL’s Sky Play® PC Interactive Games product line. It is the increase in the availability of similar PC based entertainment games, and the lack of a dedicated marketing consultant that has reduced CCL’s client base. The marketplace for the Sky Games® Interactive Gaming System, CCL’s main product line, is not well established. However the Gaming Industry as a whole internationally is constantly undergoing changes, is intensely competitive, and is subject to changes in customer attitudes, morals and preferences. New products are being developed continuously by the Gaming Industry in order to satisfy customer demands. The Sky Games® Interactive Gaming System is one of those products. Changes in International Governmental regulations and laws are in a constant state of flux, and could adversely affect the ability of the Airlines to install such a system. Changes in policies of companies or banks that handle payment processing systems or credit card transactions for gaming industry could have an adverse impact on the operation of the Sky Games® System RELIANCE ON EMPLOYEES CCL relies on its management and outsourced services for the business and corporate operations. ABILITY TO RAISE CAPITAL CCL’s ability is dependent upon many factors, including the ability of the degree of competition encountered by the Company, technology risks, government regulation and general economic conditions. 