ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our stock involves risks. You should carefully read this entire report and consider the following uncertainties and risks, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, along with all of the other information included in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, before deciding to buy our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Business We have incurred losses since our inception, expect to continue to incur such losses, and may never be profitable. Since our inception, we have not achieved profitability. We expect to incur additional losses for the foreseeable future, and our losses could increase as our research and development efforts progress. We expect that such losses will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and losses and fluctuations may be substantial. 15 Table of Contents To become profitable, we, or our collaborative partners, must successfully manufacture and develop product candidates, receive regulatory approval, and successfully commercialize and/or enter into profitable agreements with other parties. It could be several years, if ever, before we receive significant royalties from any current or future license agreements or revenues directly from product sales. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing our product candidates and their potential for commercialization, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, the market value of our common stock will likely decline. Our success depends upon our ability to advance our products through the various stages of development, especially through the clinical trial process. To receive the regulatory approvals necessary for the sale of our product candidates, we or our partners must demonstrate through preclinical studies and clinical trials that each product candidate is safe and effective. The clinical trial process is complex and uncertain. Because of the cost and duration of clinical trials, we may decide to discontinue development of product candidates that are unlikely to show good results in the clinical trials, unlikely to help advance a product to the point of a meaningful collaboration, or unlikely to have a reasonable commercial potential. We may suffer significant setbacks in pivotal clinical trials, even after earlier clinical trials show promising results. Clinical trials may not be adequately designed or executed, which could affect the potential outcome and analysis of study results. Any of our product candidates may produce undesirable side effects in humans. These side effects could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of a product candidate. These side effects could also result in the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities refusing to approve the product candidate for any targeted indications. We, our partners, the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time if we or they believe the trial participants face unacceptable health risks. Clinical trials may fail to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe or effective and have acceptable commercial viability. Regulatory authorities may interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials for a product candidate for any number or reasons. Our ability to successfully complete clinical trials is dependent upon many factors, including but not limited to: • our ability to find suitable clinical sites and investigators to enroll patients; • the availability of and willingness of patients to participate in our clinical trials; • difficulty in maintaining contact with patients to provide complete data after treatment; • our product candidates may not prove to be either safe or effective (e.g., the ongoing Phase 2a trial for BCX4161 may not be successful); • clinical protocols or study procedures may not be adequately designed or followed by the investigators; • manufacturing or quality control problems could affect the supply of drug product for our trials; and • delays or changes in requirements by governmental agencies. Clinical trials are lengthy and expensive. We or our partners incur substantial expense for, and devote significant time to, preclinical testing and clinical trials, yet cannot be certain that the tests and trials will ever result in the commercial sale of a product. For example, clinical trials require adequate supplies of drug and sufficient patient enrollment. Lack of adequate drug supply or delays in patient enrollment, including in our planned clinical trials for HAE, can result in increased costs and longer development times. Even if we or our partners successfully complete clinical trials for our product candidates, we or our partners might not file the required regulatory submissions in a timely manner and may not receive regulatory approval for the product candidate, including with respect to our NDA filing for peramivir. Our clinical trials may not adequately show that our drugs are safe or effective. Progression of our drug products through the clinical development process is dependent upon our trials indicating our drugs have adequate safety and efficacy in the patients being treated by achieving pre-determined safety and efficacy endpoints according to the trial protocols. Failure to achieve either of these in any of our programs, including BCX4161, could result in delays in our trials or require the performance of additional unplanned trials. This could result in delays in the development of our product candidates and could result in significant unexpected costs or the termination of programs. If we fail to reach milestones or to make annual minimum payments or otherwise breach our obligations under our license agreements, our licensors may terminate our agreements with them and seek additional remedies. If we are unable or fail to meet payment obligations, performance milestones relating to the timing of regulatory filings, or development and commercial diligence obligations, are unable or fail to make milestone payments or material data use payments in accordance with applicable provisions, or fail to pay the minimum annual payments under our respective licenses, our licensors may terminate the applicable license or seek other available remedies. As a result, our development of the respective product candidate or commercialization of the product would cease. 16 Table of Contents If we fail to obtain additional financing or acceptable partnership arrangements, we may be unable to complete the development and commercialization of our product candidates or continue operations. As our programs advance, our costs are likely to increase. Our current and planned clinical trials plus the related development, manufacturing, regulatory approval process requirements, and additional personnel resources and testing required for supporting the development of our product candidates will consume significant capital resources. Our expenses, revenues and cash utilization rate could vary significantly depending on many factors, including: our ability to raise additional capital; the development progress of our collaborative agreements for our product candidates; the amount of funding we receive from BARDA/HHS for peramivir, NIAID/HHS or other government agencies for BCX4430 or from other new partnerships with third parties for the development of our product candidates, including ulodesine or BCX4161; the amount or profitability of any orders for peramivir or BCX4430 by any government agency or other party; the progress and results of our current and proposed clinical trials for our most advanced drug product candidates, including BCX4161; the progress made in the manufacturing of our lead products and the progression of our other programs. We expect that we will be required to enter into one or more acceptable partnership arrangements in order to complete the development of ulodesine for the treatment of gout. We expect that we will be required to raise additional capital to complete the development and commercialization of our current product candidates and we may seek to raise capital at any time. Additional funding, whether through additional sales of securities or collaborative or other arrangements with corporate partners or from other sources, including governmental agencies in general and from any BARDA/HHS or NIAID/HHS contract specifically, may not be available when needed or on terms acceptable to us. The issuance of preferred or common stock or convertible securities, with terms and prices significantly more favorable than those of the currently outstanding common stock, could have the effect of diluting or adversely affecting the holdings or rights of our existing stockholders. In addition, collaborative arrangements may require us to transfer certain material rights to such corporate partners. Insufficient funds or lack of an acceptable partnership may require us to delay, scale-back or eliminate certain of our research and development programs. In order to continue future operations and continue our drug development programs, we will be required to raise additional capital. In addition to seeking strategic partnerships, transactions and government funding, we may decide to access the equity or debt markets or seek other sources to meet liquidity needs. Our ability to raise additional capital may be limited and may greatly depend upon the success of ongoing development related to our current drug development programs, including the NDA filing for peramivir, the Phase 2a clinical trial of BCX4161, progress of our second generation HAE compounds, and funding for and continued successful development of BCX4430. In addition, constriction and volatility in the equity and debt markets may restrict our future flexibility to raise capital when such needs arise. Furthermore, we have exposure to many different industries, financing partners and counterparties, including commercial banks, investment banks and partners (which include investors, licensing partners, and the U.S. Government) which may be unstable or may become unstable in the current economic and political environment. Any such instability may impact these parties’ ability to fulfill contractual obligations to us or they might limit or place burdensome conditions upon future transactions with us. Also, it is possible that suppliers may be negatively impacted. Any such unfavorable outcomes in our current programs or unfavorable economic conditions could place severe downward pressure on the stock and credit markets, which could reduce the return available on invested corporate cash, which if severe and sustained could have a material and adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows and limit our ability to continue development of our product candidates. If BARDA/HHS and NIAID/HHS were to eliminate, reduce or delay funding from our contract, this would have a significant negative impact on our revenues, cash flows. Our projections of revenues and incoming cash flows are substantially dependent upon BARDA/HHS and NIAID/HHS reimbursement for the costs related to our peramivir and BCX4430 programs. If BARDA/HHS and NIAID/HHS were to eliminate, reduce or delay the funding for these programs or disallow some of our incurred costs, we would have to obtain additional funding for continued development or regulatory registration for these product candidates or significantly reduce or stop the development effort. Further, BARDA/HHS and NIAID/HHS may challenge actions that we have taken or may take under our contracts, which could negatively impact our operating results and cash flows. In contracting with BARDA/HHS and NIAID/HHS , we are subject to various U.S. Government contract requirements, including general clauses for a cost-reimbursement research and development contract, which may limit our reimbursement or if we are found to be in violation could result in contract termination. U.S. Government contracts typically contain extraordinary provisions that would not typically be found in commercial contracts. For instance, government contracts permit unilateral modification by the government, interpretation of relevant regulations (i.e., federal acquisition regulation clauses), and the ability to terminate without cause. In addition, U.S. Government contracts are subject to an in-process review, where the U.S. Government will review the project and will consider its options under the contract. As such, we may be at a disadvantage as compared to other commercial contracts. U.S. Government contracts are subject to audit and modification by the government at its sole discretion. If the U.S. Government terminates its contract with us for its convenience, or if we default by failing to perform in accordance with the contract schedule and terms, significant negative impact on our cash flows and operations could result. Our government contracts with BARDA/HHS and NIAID/HHS have special contracting requirements, which create additional risks of reduction or loss of funding. We have entered into a contract with BARDA/HHS for the advanced development of our neuraminidase inhibitor, peramivir. We also have entered into a contract with NIAID/HHS for the development of BCX4430 as a treatment for Marburg virus disease. In contracting with these government agencies, we are subject to various U.S. Government contract requirements, including general clauses for a cost-reimbursement research and development contract, which may limit our reimbursement or if we are found to be in violation could result in contract termination. U.S. Government contracts typically contain extraordinary provisions that would not typically be found in commercial contracts. For instance, government contracts permit unilateral modification by the government, interpretation of relevant regulations (i.e., 17 Table of Contents federal acquisition regulation clauses), and the ability to terminate without cause. In addition, U.S. Government contracts are subject to in-process review, where the U.S. Government will periodically review the project and will consider its options under the contract. As such, we may be at a disadvantage as compared to other commercial contracts. U.S. Government contracts typically contain unfavorable termination provisions and are subject to audit and modification by the government at its sole discretion, each of which subjects us to additional risks. These risks include the ability of the U.S. Government to unilaterally: • terminate or reduce the scope of our contract; and • audit and object to our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. The U.S. Government may terminate its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform in accordance with the contract schedule and terms. Termination for convenience provisions generally enable us to recover only our costs incurred or committed, and settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. Termination for default provisions do not permit these recoveries. In the event of termination or upon expiration of the contract, the U.S. Government may dispute wind down and termination costs and may question prior expenses under the contract and deny payment of those expenses. Should we choose to challenge the U.S. Government for denying certain payments under the contract, such a challenge could subject us to substantial additional expenses which we may or may not recover. Further, if the U.S. Government terminates its contract with us for its convenience, or if we default by failing to perform in accordance with the contract schedule and terms, significant negative impact on our cash flows and operations could result. As a U.S. Government contractor, we are required to comply with applicable laws, regulations and standards relating to our accounting practices and are subject to periodic audits and reviews. As part of any such audit or review, the U.S. Government may review the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies, including those relating to our purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Audits conducted by the U.S. Government for the BARDA/HHS contract have been performed and concluded through fiscal 2009; all subsequent fiscal years are still open and auditable. Based on the results of its audits, the U.S. Government may adjust our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. This adjustment could impact the amount of revenues reported on a historic basis and could impact our cash flows under the contract prospectively. In addition, in the event BARDA/HHS or NIAID/HHS determines that certain costs and fees were unallowable or determines that the allocated indirect cost rate was higher than the actual indirect cost rate, BARDA/HHS or NIAID/HHS would be entitled to recoup any overpayment from us as a result. In addition, if an audit or review uncovers any improper or illegal activity, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of our contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. Government. We could also suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us. In addition, under U.S. Government purchasing regulations, some of our costs may not be reimbursable or allowed under our contracts. Further, as a U.S. Government contractor, we are subject to an increased risk of investigations, criminal prosecution, civil fraud, whistleblower lawsuits and other legal actions and liabilities as compared to private sector commercial companies. If we fail to successfully commercialize or establish collaborative relationships to commercialize certain of our product candidates or if any partner terminates or fails to perform its obligations under agreements with us, potential revenues from commercialization of our product candidates could be reduced, delayed or eliminated. Our business strategy is to increase the asset value of our product candidate portfolio. We believe this is best achieved by retaining full product rights or through collaborative arrangements with third parties as appropriate. As needed, potential third-party alliances could include preclinical development, clinical development, regulatory approval, marketing, sales and distribution of our product candidates. Currently, we have established collaborative relationships with Mundipharma for the development and commercialization of forodesine and with each of Shionogi and Green Cross for the development and commercialization of peramivir. The process of establishing and implementing collaborative relationships is difficult, time-consuming and involves significant uncertainty, including: • our partners may seek to renegotiate or terminate their relationships with us due to unsatisfactory clinical results, a change in business strategy, a change of control or other reasons; • our contracts for collaborative arrangements may expire; • our partners may choose to pursue alternative technologies, including those of our competitors; • we may have disputes with a partner that could lead to litigation or arbitration; • we do not have day to day control over the activities of our partners and have limited control over their decisions; • our ability to generate future event payments and royalties from our partners depends upon their abilities to establish the safety and efficacy of our product candidates, obtain regulatory approvals and achieve market acceptance of products developed from our product candidates; • we or our partners may fail to properly initiate, maintain or defend our intellectual property rights, where applicable, or a party may utilize our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or potentially invalidate our proprietary information or expose us to potential liability; • our partners may not devote sufficient capital or resources towards our product candidates; and • our partners may not comply with applicable government regulatory requirements. 18 Table of Contents If we or our partners fail to fulfill our responsibilities in a timely manner, or at all, our commercialization efforts related to that collaboration could be reduced, delayed or terminated, or it may be necessary for us to assume responsibility for activities that would otherwise have been the responsibility of our partner. If we are unable to establish and maintain collaborative relationships on acceptable terms, we may have to delay or discontinue further development of one or more of our product candidates, undertake commercialization activities at our own expense or find alternative sources of funding. Any delay in the development or commercialization of our product candidates would severely affect our business, because if our product candidates do not progress through the development process or reach the market in a timely manner, or at all, we may not receive additional future event payments and may never receive milestone, product sales or royalty payments. We have not commercialized any products or technologies and our future revenue generation is uncertain. We have not commercialized any products or technologies, and we may never be able to do so. We currently have no marketing capability and no direct or third-party sales or distribution capabilities and may be unable to establish these capabilities for products we plan to commercialize. In addition, our revenue from collaborative agreements is dependent upon the status of our preclinical and clinical programs. If we fail to advance these programs to the point of being able to enter into successful collaborations, we will not receive any future event or other collaborative payments. Our ability to receive revenue from products we commercialize presents several risks, including: • we or our collaborators may fail to successfully complete clinical trials sufficient to obtain FDA marketing approval; • many competitors are more experienced, have significantly more resources and, their products could reach the market before ours, be more cost effective or have a better efficacy or tolerability profile than our product candidates; • we may fail to employ a comprehensive and effective intellectual property strategy, which could result in decreased commercial value of our Company and our products; • we may fail to employ a comprehensive and effective regulatory strategy, which could result in a delay or failure in commercialization of our products; • our ability to successfully commercialize our products is affected by the competitive landscape, which cannot be fully known at this time; • reimbursement is constantly changing, which could greatly affect usage of our products; and • any future revenue from product sales would depend on our ability to successfully complete clinical studies, obtain regulatory approvals, and manufacture, market and commercialize any approved drugs. If our development collaborations with third parties, such as our development partners and contract research organizations, fail, the development of our product candidates will be delayed or stopped. We rely heavily upon other parties for many important stages of our product candidate development, including but not limited to: • discovery of compounds that cause or enable biological reactions necessary for the progression of the disease or disorder, called enzyme targets; • licensing or design of enzyme inhibitors for development as product candidates; • execution of some preclinical studies and late-stage development for our compounds and product candidates; • management of our clinical trials, including medical monitoring and data management; • execution of additional toxicology studies that may be required to obtain approval for our product candidates; and • manufacturing the starting materials and drug substance required to formulate our drug products and the product candidates to be used in both our clinical trials and toxicology studies. Our failure to engage in successful collaborations at any one of these stages would greatly impact our business. If we do not license enzyme targets or inhibitors from academic institutions or from other biotechnology companies on acceptable terms, our drug development efforts would suffer. Similarly, if the contract research organizations that conduct our initial or late-stage clinical trials, conduct our toxicology studies, manufacture our starting materials, drug substance and drug products or manage our regulatory function breached their obligations to us or perform their services inconsistent with industry standards and not in accordance with the required regulations, this would delay or prevent the development of our product candidates. If we lose our relationship with any one or more of these parties, we could experience a significant delay in both identifying another comparable provider and then contracting for its services. We may be unable to retain an alternative provider on reasonable terms, if at all. Even if we locate an alternative provider, it is likely that this provider may need additional time to respond to our needs and may not provide the same type or level of service as the original provider. In addition, any provider that we retain will be subject to applicable FDA current Good Laboratory Practices (“cGLP”), current Good Manufacturing Practices (“cGMP”) and current Good Clinical Practices (“cGCP”), and comparable foreign standards. We do not have control over compliance with these regulations by these providers. Consequently, if these practices and standards are not adhered to by these providers, the development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Our development of peramivir for influenza is subject to all disclosed drug development and potential commercialization risks and numerous additional risks. Any potential revenue benefits to us are highly speculative. Further development and potential commercialization of peramivir is subject to all the risks and uncertainties disclosed in our other risk factors relating to drug development and commercialization. In addition, potential commercialization of peramivir is subject to further risks, including but not limited to the following: • i.v. peramivir may not prove to be safe and sufficiently effective for market approval in the United States or other major markets; • necessary government or other third party funding and clinical testing for further development of peramivir may not be available timely, at all, or in sufficient amounts; • flu prevention or pandemic treatment concerns may not materialize at all, or in the near future; • advances in flu vaccines or other antivirals, including competitive i.v. antivirals, could substantially replace potential demand for peramivir; • any substantial demand for pandemic or seasonal flu treatments may occur before peramivir can be adequately developed and tested in clinical trials; • peramivir may not prove to be accepted by patients and physicians as a treatment for seasonal influenza compared to the other currently marketed antiviral drugs, which would limit revenue from non-governmental entities; • numerous large and well-established pharmaceutical and biotech companies will be competing to meet the market demand for flu drugs and vaccines; • the only major markets in which patents relating to peramivir have issued or been allowed are the United States, Canada, Japan, Australia and many contracting and extension states of the European Union, while no patent applications or issued patents for peramivir exist in other potentially significant markets; • regulatory authorities may not make needed accommodations to accelerate the drug testing and approval process for peramivir; and • in the next few years, it is expected that a limited number of governmental entities will be the primary potential customers for peramivir and if we are not successful at marketing peramivir to these entities for any reason, we will not receive substantial revenues from stockpiling orders from these entities. If any or all of these and other risk factors occur, we will not attain significant revenues or gross margins from peramivir and our stock price will be adversely affected. There are risks related to the potential emergency use or sale of peramivir. To the extent that peramivir is used as a treatment for influenza, there can be no assurance that it will prove to be generally safe, well-tolerated and effective. Emergency use of peramivir may create certain liabilities for us. There is no assurance that we or our manufacturers will be able to fully meet the demand for peramivir in the event of additional orders. Further, we may not achieve a favorable price for additional orders of peramivir in the U.S. or in any other country. Our competitors may develop products that could compete with or replace peramivir. We may face competition in markets where we have no existing intellectual property protection or are unable to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights. There is no assurance that the non-U.S. partnerships that we have entered into for peramivir will result in any order for peramivir in those countries. There is no assurance that peramivir will be approved for emergency use or will achieve market approval in additional countries. In the event that any emergency use is granted, there is no assurance that any order by any non-U.S. partnership will be substantial or will be profitable to us. The sale of peramivir, emergency use or other use of peramivir in any country may create certain liabilities for us. Because we have limited manufacturing experience, we depend on third-party manufacturers to manufacture our product candidates and the materials for our product candidates. If we cannot rely on third-party manufacturers, we will be required to incur significant costs and potential delays in finding new third-party manufacturers. We have limited manufacturing experience and only a small scale manufacturing facility. We currently rely upon third-party manufacturers to manufacture the materials required for our product candidates and most of the preclinical and clinical quantities of our product candidates. We depend on these third-party manufacturers to perform their obligations in a timely manner and in accordance with applicable governmental regulations. Our third-party manufacturers may encounter difficulties with meeting our requirements, including but not limited to problems involving: • inconsistent production yields; • product liability claims; • difficulties in scaling production to commercial and validation sizes; • interruption of the delivery of materials required for the manufacturing process; • scheduling of plant time with other vendors or unexpected equipment failure; 20 Table of Contents • potential catastrophes that could strike their facilities or have an effect on infrastructure; • potential impurities in our drug substance or drug products that could affect availability of product for our clinical trials or future commercialization; • poor quality control and assurance or inadequate process controls; and • lack of compliance or cooperation with regulations and specifications or requests set forth by the FDA or other foreign regulatory agencies, particularly associated with our pending peramivir NDA. These contract manufacturers may not be able to manufacture the materials required for our product candidates at a cost or in quantities necessary to make them commercially viable. We also have no control over whether third-party manufacturers breach their agreements with us or whether they may terminate or decline to renew agreements with us. To date, our third-party manufacturers have met our manufacturing requirements, but they may not continue to do so. Furthermore, changes in the manufacturing process or procedure, including a change in the location where the drug is manufactured or a change of a third-party manufacturer, may require prior review and approval in accordance with the FDA’s cGMP and comparable foreign requirements. This review may be costly and time-consuming and could delay or prevent the launch of a product. The FDA or similar foreign regulatory agencies at any time may also implement new standards, or change their interpretation and enforcement of existing standards for manufacture, packaging or testing of products. If we or our contract manufacturers are unable to comply, we or they may be subject to regulatory action, civil actions or penalties. If we are unable to maintain current manufacturing or other contract relationships, or enter into new agreements with additional manufacturers on commercially reasonable terms, or if there is poor manufacturing performance or failure to comply with any regulatory agency on the part of any of our third-party manufacturers, we may not be able to complete development of, seek timely approval of, or market, our product candidates. Our raw materials, drug substances, and drug products are manufactured by a limited group of suppliers and some at a single facility. If any of these suppliers were unable to produce these items, this could significantly impact our supply of product candidate material for further preclinical testing and clinical trials. Royalties and milestone payments from Shionogi under the Shionogi Agreement will be required to be used by Royalty Sub to service its obligations under its PhaRMA Notes, and generally will not be available to us for other purposes until Royalty Sub has repaid in full its obligations under the PhaRMA Notes. In March 2011, our wholly-owned subsidiary Royalty Sub issued $30.0 million in aggregate principal amount of PhaRMA Notes. The PhaRMA Notes are secured principally by (i) certain royalty and milestone payments under the Shionogi Agreement, pursuant to which Shionogi licensed from us the rights to market peramivir in Japan and, if approved for commercial sale, Taiwan, (ii) rights to certain payments under a Japanese yen/U.S. dollar foreign currency hedge arrangement put into place by us in connection with the issuance of the PhaRMA Notes and (iii) the pledge by us of our equity interest in Royalty Sub. Payments from Shionogi to us under the Shionogi Agreement will generally not be available to us for other purposes until Royalty Sub has repaid in full its obligations under the PhaRMA Notes. Accordingly, these funds will be required to be dedicated to Royalty Sub’s debt service and not available to us for product development or other purposes. If royalties from Shionogi are insufficient for Royalty Sub to make payments under the PhaRMA Notes or if an event of default occurs under the PhaRMA Notes, the holders of the PhaRMA Notes may be able to foreclose on the collateral securing the PhaRMA Notes and our equity interest in Royalty Sub, in which case we may not realize the benefit of future royalty payments that might otherwise accrue to us following repayment of the PhaRMA Notes. Royalty Sub’s ability to service its payment obligations in respect of the PhaRMA Notes, and our ability to benefit from our equity interest in Royalty Sub, is subject to numerous risks. Peramivir was first approved for marketing and manufacturing in Japan in October 2009 and has been offered for sale in Japan only since January 2010. As a result, there is very little sales history for peramivir in Japan, and there can be no assurance that peramivir will gain market acceptance in the Japanese market. In addition, Shionogi’s sales of peramivir are expected to be highly seasonal and vary significantly from year to year, and the market for products to treat or prevent influenza is highly competitive. Under our license agreement with Shionogi, Shionogi has control over the commercial process for peramivir in Japan and Taiwan. Royalty Sub’s ability to service the PhaRMA Notes may be adversely affected by, among other things, changes in or any termination of our relationship with Shionogi, reimbursement, regulatory, manufacturing and/or intellectual property issues, product returns, product recalls, product liability claims and allegations of safety issues, as well as other factors. In the event that for any reason Royalty Sub is unable to service its obligations under the PhaRMA Notes or an event of default were to occur under the PhaRMA Notes, the holders of the PhaRMA Notes may be able to foreclose on the collateral securing the PhaRMA Notes and our equity interest in Royalty Sub and exercise other remedies available to them under the indenture in respect of the PhaRMA Notes. In such event, we may not realize the benefit of future royalty payments that might otherwise accrue to us following repayment of the PhaRMA Notes and we might otherwise be adversely affected. On September 3, 2013, we paid $1.8 million of interest on the PhaRMA Notes from royalty payments received from RAPIACTA® sales from the preceding four calendar quarters. This payment resulted in an obligation shortfall of $2.4 million associated with accrued interest due September 3, 2013. As stipulated under the PhaRMA Notes indenture, if the amount available for payment is insufficient to pay all of the interest due on a Payment Date, the shortfall in interest will accrue interest at the interest rate applicable to the PhaRMA Notes compounded annually. Accordingly, commencing on September 3, 2013, we began accruing interest at 14% per annum on the interest shortfall of $2.4 million. Under the terms of the indenture relating to the PhaRMA Notes, the inability to pay the full amount of interest payable on September 3, 21 Table of Contents 2013 did not constitute an event of default under the PhaRMA Notes unless we fail to pay such unpaid interest, plus interest thereon, on or prior to the next succeeding Payment Date for the PhaRMA Notes, which is September 1, 2014. Based on sales forecasts of RAPIACTA® provided to us by Shionogi, we currently estimate sufficient royalties will be received to fund the September 3, 2013 interest shortfall prior to September 1, 2014; however, no assurances can be given that these royalties will be received and available for payment of the interest shortfall. Shionogi’s failure to successfully market and commercialize peramivir in Japan would have a material adverse effect on Royalty Sub’s ability to service its obligations on the PhaRMA Notes. The successful commercialization of peramivir in Japan depends on the efforts of Shionogi and is beyond the control of us or Royalty Sub. As discussed above, peramivir has only recently been introduced into the Japanese market, and there can be no assurance that peramivir will gain market acceptance in Japan. Future sales by Shionogi will depend on many factors, including the incidence and severity of seasonal influenza in Japan each year (both of which can vary very significantly from year to year), the perceived and actual efficacy and safety of peramivir, the experience of physicians and patients with peramivir, continued market acceptance, continued availability of supply, competition, sales and marketing efforts, governmental regulation and pricing and reimbursement in Japan. Shionogi is responsible for the marketing and sale of peramivir in Japan, including with respect to the pricing of peramivir in that market. There are no minimum royalties, sales levels or other performance measures required of Shionogi under the Shionogi Agreement and Shionogi could in its sole discretion reduce or cease its sale efforts of peramivir in Japan, subject to its covenant in the Shionogi Agreement to use diligent efforts to commercialize peramivir in Japan. If Shionogi is unable to, or fails to, successfully market and commercialize peramivir, it would have a material adverse effect on Royalty Sub’s ability to service its obligations under the PhaRMA Notes and our ability to benefit from our equity interest in Royalty Sub. We may be required to pay significant premiums under the foreign Currency Hedge Agreement entered into by us in connection with the issuance of the PhaRMA Notes. In addition, because our potential obligations under the foreign currency hedge are marked to market, we may experience additional quarterly volatility in our operating results and cash flows attributable to the foreign Currency Hedge Agreement. In connection with the issuance by Royalty Sub of the PhaRMA Notes, we entered into a foreign Currency Hedge Agreement to hedge certain risks associated with changes in the value of the Japanese yen relative to the U.S. dollar. Under the Currency Hedge Agreement, we may be required to pay a premium in the amount of $2.0 million in each year beginning in May 2014 and, provided the Currency Hedge Agreement remains in effect, continuing through May 2020. Such payment will be required if, in May of the relevant year, the spot rate of exchange for Japanese yen-U.S. dollars (determined in accordance with the Currency Hedge Agreement) is such that the U.S. dollar is worth 100 yen or less. We will be required to mark to market our potential obligations under the currency hedge and post cash collateral, which may cause us to experience additional quarterly volatility in our operating results and cash flows as a result. Additionally, we may be required to pay significant premiums or a termination fee under the foreign currency hedge agreement entered into by us in connection with the issuance of the PhaRMA Notes. If we or our partners do not obtain and maintain governmental approvals for our products under development, we or our partners will not be able to sell these potential products, which would significantly harm our business because we will receive no revenue. We or our partners must obtain regulatory approval before marketing or selling our future drug products. If we or our partners are unable to receive regulatory approval and do not market or sell our future drug products, we will never receive any revenue from such product sales. In the United States, we or our partners must obtain FDA approval for each drug that we intend to commercialize. The process of preparing for and obtaining FDA approval may be lengthy and expensive, and approval is never certain. Products distributed abroad are also subject to foreign government regulation and export laws of the U.S. The FDA has not approved any of our product candidates. Because of the risks and uncertainties in biopharmaceutical development, our product candidates could take a significantly longer time to gain regulatory approval than we expect or may never gain approval. If the FDA delays regulatory approval of our product candidates, our management’s credibility, our company’s value and our operating results may suffer. Even if the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies approve a product candidate, the approval may limit the indicated uses for a product candidate and/or may require post-marketing studies. The FDA regulates, among other things, the record keeping and storage of data pertaining to potential pharmaceutical products. We currently store most of our preclinical research data, our clinical data and our manufacturing data at our facility. While we do store duplicate copies of most of our clinical data offsite and a significant portion of our data is included in regular backups of our systems, we could lose important data if our facility incurs damage, or if our vendor data systems fail, suffer damage or are destroyed. If we receive approval to market our potential products, whether in the United States or internationally, we will continue to be subject to extensive regulatory requirements. These requirements are wide ranging and govern, among other things: • adverse drug experience reporting regulations; • product promotion; • product manufacturing, including good manufacturing practice requirements; and • product changes or modifications. Our failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements, or our loss of, or changes to, previously obtained approvals, could have a material adverse effect on our business because we will not receive product or royalty revenues if we or our partners do not receive approval of our products for marketing. 22 Table of Contents We face intense competition, and if we are unable to compete effectively, the demand for our products, if any, may be reduced. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive and subject to rapid and substantial technological change. There are many companies seeking to develop products for the same indications that we are working on. Our competitors in the United States and elsewhere are numerous and include, among others, major multinational pharmaceutical and chemical companies and specialized biotechnology firms. Most of these competitors have greater resources than we do, including greater financial resources, larger research and development staffs and more experienced marketing and manufacturing organizations. In addition, most of our competitors have greater experience than we do in conducting clinical trials and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining FDA or other regulatory approvals of product candidates more rapidly than we do. Companies that complete clinical trials, obtain required regulatory approvals, and commence commercial sale of their drugs before we do may achieve a significant competitive advantage, including patent and FDA exclusivity rights that would delay our ability to market products. We face, and will continue to face, competition in the licensing of desirable disease targets, licensing of desirable product candidates, and development and marketing of our product candidates from academic institutions, government agencies, research institutions and biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. Competition may also arise from, among other things: • other drug development technologies; • methods of preventing or reducing the incidence of disease, including vaccines; and • new small molecule or other classes of therapeutic agents. Developments by others may render our product candidates or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. We and our partners are performing research on or developing products for the treatment of several disorders including influenza, gout, HAE, and recurrent/refractory peripheral T-cell lymphoma, as well as broad-spectrum antivirals which may be developed as medical countermeasures. We expect to encounter significant competition for any of the pharmaceutical products we plan to develop. Companies that complete clinical trials, obtain required funding or government support, obtain required regulatory approvals and commence commercial sales or stockpiling orders of their products before their competitors may achieve a significant competitive advantage. Such is the case with Eisai Co. Ltd.’s TARGRETIN® for cutaneous T-cell lymphoma and the current neuraminidase inhibitors marketed by GSK and Roche for influenza and CINRYZE® and FIRAZYR® for HAE marketed by Shire Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Both Roche and GSK may have i.v. formulations of neuraminidase inhibitors for influenza in clinical trial development. Further, several pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms, including major pharmaceutical companies and specialized structure-based drug design companies, have announced efforts in the field of structure-based drug design and in the fields of PNP, influenza, HAE, and in other therapeutic areas where we have discovery efforts ongoing. If one or more of our competitors’ products or programs are successful, the market for our products may be reduced or eliminated. Compared to us, many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater: • capital resources; • research and development resources, including personnel and technology; • regulatory experience; • preclinical study and clinical testing experience; • manufacturing and marketing experience; and • production facilities. Any of these competitive factors could impede our funding efforts, render technology and product candidates non-competitive or eliminate or reduce demand for our product candidates. If we fail to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights or secure rights to patents of others, the value of those rights would diminish. Our success will depend in part on our ability and the abilities of our partners to obtain, protect and enforce viable intellectual property rights including but not limited to trade name, trademark and patent protection for our Company and its products, methods, processes and other technologies we may license or develop, to preserve our trade secrets, and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties both domestically and abroad. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies is generally highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions and has recently been the subject of much litigation. Neither the United States Patent and Trademark Office (“USPTO”), the Patent Cooperation Treaty offices, nor the courts of the U.S. and other jurisdictions have consistent policies nor predictable rulings regarding the breadth of claims allowed or the degree of protection afforded under many biotechnology and pharmaceutical patents. Further, we may not have worldwide patent protection for all of our product candidates and our intellectual property rights may not be legally protected or enforceable in all countries throughout the world. In some jurisdictions, some of our product candidates in certain programs, including our HAE program, may have short or no composition of matter patent life and we may therefore rely on orphan drug exclusivity or data exclusivity. There can be no guarantee that we will obtain orphan drug exclusivity or data exclusivity in every jurisdiction. Further, in some jurisdictions, we may rely on formulation patents or method of use patents. Both the ability to achieve issuance and enforcement of formulation and method of use patents can be highly uncertain and can vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and such patents may therefore not adequately prevent competitors and potential infringers in some jurisdictions. The validity, scope, enforceability and commercial value of the rights protected by such patents, therefore, is highly uncertain. 23 Table of Contents We also rely on trade secrets to protect technology in cases when we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. If we cannot maintain the confidentiality of our technology and other confidential information in connection with our collaborators and advisors, our ability to receive patent protection or protect our proprietary information may be imperiled. Our success depends in part on avoiding the infringement of other parties’ patents and other intellectual property rights as well as avoiding the breach of any licenses relating to our technologies and products. In the U.S., patent applications filed in recent years are confidential for 18 months, while older applications are not published until the patent issues. As a result, avoiding patent infringement may be difficult and we may inadvertently infringe third-party patents or proprietary rights. These third parties could bring claims against us, our partners or our licensors that even if resolved in our favor, could cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if resolved against us, could additionally cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us, our partners or our licensors, we or they could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of any infringing product in the country or countries covered by the patent we infringe, unless we can obtain a license from the patent holder. Such a license may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, particularly if the third party is developing or marketing a product competitive with the infringing product. Even if we, our partners or our licensors were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. If we or our partners are unable or fail to adequately initiate, protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property rights in any area of commercial interest or in any part of the world where we wish to seek regulatory approval for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, the value of the product candidates to produce revenue would diminish. Additionally, if our products, methods, processes, and other technologies or our commercial use of such products, processes, and other technologies, including but not limited to any trade name, trademark or commercial strategy infringe the proprietary rights of other parties, we could incur substantial costs. The USPTO and the patent offices of other jurisdictions have issued to us a number of patents for our various inventions and we have in-licensed several patents from various institutions. We have filed additional patent applications and provisional patent applications with the USPTO. We have filed a number of corresponding foreign patent applications and intend to file additional foreign and U.S. patent applications, as appropriate. We have also filed certain trademark and trade name applications worldwide. We cannot assure you as to: • the degree and range of protection any patents will afford against competitors with similar products; • if and when patents will issue; • if patents do issue we cannot be sure that we will be able to adequately defend such patents and whether or not we will be able to adequately enforce such patents; or • whether or not others will obtain patents claiming aspects similar to those covered by our patent applications. If the USPTO or other foreign patent office upholds patents issued to others or if the USPTO grants patent applications filed by others, we may have to: • obtain licenses or redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement; • stop using the subject matter claimed in those patents; or • pay damages. We may initiate, or others may bring against us, litigation or administrative proceedings related to intellectual property rights, including proceedings before the USPTO or other foreign patent office. Any judgment adverse to us in any litigation or other proceeding arising in connection with a patent or patent application could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the costs of any such proceeding may be substantial whether or not we are successful. Our success is also dependent upon the skills, knowledge and experience, none of which is patentable, of our scientific and technical personnel. To help protect our rights, we require all employees, consultants, advisors and partners to enter into confidentiality agreements that prohibit the disclosure of confidential information to anyone outside of our company and require disclosure and assignment to us of their ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions. These agreements may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure or the lawful development by others of such information, and if any of our proprietary information is disclosed, our business will suffer because our revenues depend upon our ability to license or commercialize our product candidates and any such events would significantly impair the value of such product candidates. There is a substantial risk of product liability claims in our business. If we are unable to obtain sufficient insurance, a product liability claim against us could adversely affect our business. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials and will face even greater risks upon any commercialization by us of our product candidates. We have product liability insurance covering our clinical trials. Clinical trial and product liability insurance is becoming increasingly expensive. As a result, we may be unable to obtain sufficient insurance or increase our existing coverage at a reasonable cost to protect us against losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business. An individual may bring a product liability claim against us if one of our products or product candidates causes, or is claimed to have caused, an injury or is found to be unsuitable for consumer use. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in: 24 Table of Contents • liabilities that substantially exceed our product liability insurance, which we would then be required to pay from other sources, if available; • an increase of our product liability insurance rates or the inability to maintain insurance coverage in the future on acceptable terms, or at all; • withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers or patients; • damage to our reputation and the reputation of our products, resulting in lower sales; • regulatory investigations that could require costly recalls or product modifications; • litigation costs; and • the diversion of management’s attention from managing our business. Insurance coverage is increasingly more costly and difficult to obtain or maintain. While we currently have insurance for our business, property, directors and officers, and our products, insurance is increasingly more costly and narrower in scope, and we may be required to assume more risk in the future. If we are subject to claims or suffer a loss or damage in excess of our insurance coverage, we will be required to bear any loss in excess of our insurance limits. If we are subject to claims or suffer a loss or damage that is outside of our insurance coverage, we may incur significant uninsured costs associated with loss or damage that could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial position. Furthermore, any claims made on our insurance policies may impact our ability to obtain or maintain insurance coverage at reasonable costs or at all. If our facility incurs damage or power is lost for a significant length of time, our business will suffer. We store clinical and stability samples at our facility that could be damaged if our facility incurs physical damage or in the event of an extended power failure. We have backup power systems in addition to backup generators to maintain power to all critical functions, but any loss of these samples could result in significant delays in our drug development process. In addition, we store most of our preclinical and clinical data at our facilities. Duplicate copies of most critical data are secured off-site. Any significant degradation or failure of our computer systems could cause us to inaccurately calculate or lose our data. Loss of data could result in significant delays in our drug development process and any system failure could harm our business and operations. If we fail to retain our existing key personnel or fail to attract and retain additional key personnel, the development of our product candidates and the expansion of our business will be delayed or stopped. We are highly dependent upon our senior management and scientific team, the unexpected loss of whose services might impede the achievement of our development and commercial objectives. Competition for key personnel with the experience that we require is intense and is expected to continue to increase. Our inability to attract and retain the required number of skilled and experienced management, operational and scientific personnel will harm our business because we rely upon these personnel for many critical functions of our business. Our existing principal stockholders hold a substantial amount of our common stock and may be able to influence significant corporate decisions, which may conflict with the interest of other stockholders. We have a number of shareholders who own greater than 5% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, if they act together, may be able to influence the outcome of matters requiring approval of the stockholders, including the election of our directors and other corporate actions. Our stock price has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile, which could result in the value of an investment to decline significantly. The market prices for securities of biotechnology companies in general have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. Moreover, our stock price has fluctuated frequently, and these fluctuations are often not related to our financial results. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2013, the 52-week range of the market price of our stock was from $1.12 to $7.84 per share. The following factors, in addition to other risk factors described in this section, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights; • additional dilution through sales of our common stock or other derivative securities; • status of new or existing licensing or collaborative agreements and government contracts; • announcements relating to the status of our programs; • developments and announcements regarding new and virulent strains of influenza; 25 Table of Contents • we or our partners achieving or failing to achieve development milestones; • publicity regarding actual or potential medical results relating to products under development by us or our competitors; • publicity regarding certain public health concerns for which we are or may be developing treatments; • regulatory developments in both the United States and foreign countries; • public concern as to the safety of pharmaceutical products; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems, including developments in price control legislation; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • additions or departures of key personnel or members of our board of directors; • purchases or sales of substantial amounts of our stock by existing stockholders, including officers or directors; • economic and other external factors or other disasters or crises; and • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. Future sales and issuances of securities may dilute the ownership interests of our current stockholders and cause our stock price to decline. Future sales of our common stock by current stockholders into the public market could cause the market price of our stock to fall. As of January 31, 2014, there were 59,384,525 shares of our common stock outstanding. We may from time to time issue securities in relation to a license arrangement, collaboration, merger or acquisition. In addition, on November 6, 2013, we filed with the SEC a shelf registration statement on Form S-3. This shelf registration statement has been declared effective and allows us to sell up to $125 million of securities, including common stock, preferred stock, depository shares, stock purchase contracts, warrants and units, from time to time at prices and on terms to be determined at the time of sale. On June 28, 2011, we filed with the SEC a shelf registration statement on Form S-3. This shelf registration statement will remain effective until July 2014 and allows us to sell up to $70 million of securities, including common stock, preferred stock, depository shares, stock purchase contracts and warrants, from time to time at prices and on terms to be determined at the time of sale. As of December 31, 2013, we have issued approximately $24.9 million of common stock under this shelf registration statement using an ATM facility. In addition, we issued 4,600,000 shares of common stock for gross proceeds of $20.2 million under this shelf registration statement on August 6, 2013 in a public offering. As of January 31, 2014, there were 10,088,982 stock options and restricted stock units outstanding and 101,667 shares available for issuance under our Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan and 59 shares available for issuance under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and we could also make equity compensation grants outside of our Stock Incentive Plan. The shares underlying existing stock options and restricted stock and possible future stock options, stock appreciation rights and stock awards have been registered pursuant to registration statements on Form S-8. If some or all of such shares are sold or otherwise issued into the public market over a short period of time, our current stockholders’ ownership interests may be diluted and the value of all publicly traded shares is likely to decline, as the market may not be able to absorb those shares at then-current market prices. Additionally, such sales and issuances may make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that our management deems acceptable, or at all. If, because of our use of hazardous materials, we violate any environmental controls or regulations that apply to such materials, we may incur substantial costs and expenses in our remediation efforts. Our research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and some waste products. Accidental contamination or injury from these materials could occur. In the event of an accident, we could be liable for any damages that result and any liabilities could exceed our resources. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations or a violation of such environmental laws and regulations could require us to incur substantial unexpected costs, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This filing contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the “safe harbor” created in Section 21E. All statements other than statements of historical facts contained in this filing are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements can generally be identified by the use of words such as “may,” “will,” 26 Table of Contents “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential,” the negative of these words or similar expressions. Statements that describe our future plans, strategies, intentions, expectations, objectives, goals or prospects are also forward-looking statements. Discussions containing these forward-looking statements are principally contained in “Business,” “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” as well as any amendments we make to those sections in filings with the SEC. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about: • the initiation, timing, progress and results of our preclinical testing, clinical trials, and other research and development efforts; • the potential funding from our contracts with BARDA/HHS for the development and support of the NDA filing for peramivir and the potential funding from our contract with NIAID/HHS for the development of BCX4430; • the FDA approval of peramivir; • the potential for a stockpiling order or profit from any order of peramivir; • the potential use of peramivir as a treatment for H1N1, H5N1, and H7N9 or other strains of influenza; • the further preclinical or clinical development and commercialization of our product candidates, including our HAE program, peramivir, BCX4430, forodesine, ulodesine and other PNP inhibitor development programs; • the implementation of our business model, strategic plans for our business, product candidates and technology; • our ability to establish and maintain collaborations or out-license rights to our drug candidates; • plans, programs, progress and potential success of our collaborations, including Mundipharma for forodesine and Shionogi and Green Cross for peramivir in their territories; • Royalty Sub’s ability to service its payment obligations in respect of the PhaRMA Notes, and our ability to benefit from our equity interest in Royalty Sub; • the foreign currency hedge agreement entered into by us in connection with the issuance by Royalty Sub of the PhaRMA Notes; • the scope of protection we are able to establish and maintain for intellectual property rights covering our product candidates and technology; • our ability to operate our business without infringing the intellectual property rights of others; • estimates of our expenses, revenues, capital requirements and our needs for additional financing; • the timing or likelihood of regulatory filings and approvals; • our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations; • our financial performance; and • competitive companies, technologies and our industry. These statements relate to future events or to our future financial performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations include, among other things, those listed under “Risk Factors.” Any forward-looking statement reflects our current views with respect to future events and is subject to these and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to our operations, results of operations, industry and future growth. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements for any reason, even if new information becomes available in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 