ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our operations. If any of these risks materialize, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. We are faced with intense competition and rapid technological and industry change. The medical device industry is characterized by rapid technological change, changing customer needs and frequent new product introductions. Our products may be rendered obsolete as a result of future innovations. We face intense competition from other device manufacturers and surgical manufacturers, as well as from pharmaceutical companies. Nearly all of our competitors are significantly larger than we are and have greater financial, technical, research, marketing, sales, distribution and other resources than we do. We believe that price competition will continue among products developed in our markets. Our competitors may develop or market technologies and products, including drug-based treatments that are more effective or commercially attractive than any we are developing or marketing. Our competitors may succeed in obtaining regulatory approval and introducing or commercializing products before we do. Such developments could have a significant negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we are able to compete successfully, we may not be able to do so in a profitable manner. Our products, including our Cooled ThermoTherapy mobile service and recently approved CoolWave control unit, may not achieve market acceptance, which could limit our future revenue. Physicians will not recommend Cooled ThermoTherapy procedures unless they conclude, based on clinical data and other factors, that it is an effective alternative to other methods of enlarged prostate treatment, including more established methods. Patient acceptance of the procedure will depend in part upon physician recommendations and on other factors, including the degree of invasiveness and the rate and severity of complications associated with the Cooled ThermoTherapy procedure compared with other therapies. Patient 11 Table of Contents acceptance of the Cooled ThermoTherapy procedure also will depend upon the ability of physicians to educate these patients on their treatment choices. Health care payer acceptance of our procedure will require, among other things, evidence of the cost effectiveness of Cooled ThermoTherapy compared to other BPH therapies. Although we believe Cooled ThermoTherapy offers physicians and patients advantages over competitive therapies for BPH, the success of our product also will depend upon the extent to which physicians and patients perceive our procedure as having these advantages and the extent to which these advantages are relevant to their treatment decision. Our marketing strategy must overcome the difficulties inherent in the introduction of new technology to the medical community. If our Cooled ThermoTherapy procedure is not widely accepted by physicians, patients or payers, or is accepted more slowly than expected, our business will be harmed. Further, we now operate our own Cooled ThermoTherapy mobile service and recently received FDA approval of our CoolWave control unit that we launched in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. As of June 30, 2007 we had an installed base of 31 CoolWave control units, including those installed on our mobile vans, and operated 14 mobile routes. If our mobile service or our CoolWave control unit are not accepted by physicians, patients, or payers, or are accepted more slowly than expected, our business will be harmed. Part of our business strategy involves expanding our product offerings into international markets and we are currently targeting markets in India, Japan, the People’s Republic of China and Taiwan. While we will face some of the same challenges in obtaining market acceptance in these countries as we face in the U.S., we will likely face additional challenges, some of which we cannot yet anticipate. Further, we cannot predict the extent to which these challenges and additional challenges particular to each of these countries and the physicians and patients in these countries will affect our ability to obtain market acceptance of our products in these countries. If our Cooled ThermoTherapy procedure is not widely accepted by physicians and patients in these countries, or is accepted more slowly than expected, the expansion of our international business will be harmed. Third-party reimbursement is critical to market acceptance of our products. Our future revenues are subject to uncertainties regarding health care reimbursement and reform. In the United States, health care providers, such as hospitals and physicians, generally rely on third-party payers. Third-party reimbursement is dependent upon decisions by the CMS, contract Medicare carriers, individual managed care organizations, private insurers, foreign governmental health programs and other payers of health care cost. Failure to receive or maintain favorable coding, coverage and reimbursement determinations for Cooled ThermoTherapy by these organizations could discourage physicians from using our products. We may be unable to sell our products on a profitable basis if third-party payers deny coverage, provide low reimbursement rates or reduce their current levels of reimbursement. The continuing efforts of government, insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other payers of health care costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may affect our future revenues and profitability. With recent federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of health care, the United States Congress and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on health care reform including the reform of Medicare and Medicaid systems, and on the cost of medical products and services. Additionally, third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Also, the trend toward managed health care in the United States and the concurrent growth of organizations such as HMO’s that could control or significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may also result in lower prices for, or rejection of, our products. The cost containment measures that health care payers and providers are instituting and the effect of any health care reform could cause reductions in the amount of reimbursement available, and could have a materially adverse effect on our revenues and ability to operate profitably. We depend upon our Cooled ThermoTherapy products for all of our revenues. All of our revenues are derived from sales of our Cooled ThermoTherapy system control units and single-use treatment catheters and treatments delivered through our Cooled ThermoTherapy mobile service. As a 12 Table of Contents result, our success is solely dependent upon the success of our Cooled ThermoTherapy products. To date, our Cooled ThermoTherapy systems have not achieved widespread market adoption. If we are unable to widely commercialize the use of these systems successfully through our marketing initiatives, including our company-owned Cooled ThermoTherapy mobile service, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. Further, higher than expected manufacturing, marketing and distribution costs, lower than expected reimbursement levels, lower than expected usage by physicians, and/or other competitive forces may require us to alter our pricing or marketing structure in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on us. Government regulation has a significant impact on our business and in particular, on the introduction of our next generation catheter, CoolMax™ . Government regulation in the United States and other countries is a significant factor affecting the research and development, manufacture and marketing of our products. In the United States, the FDA has broad authority under the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and the Public Health Service Act to regulate the distribution, manufacture and sale of medical devices. Sales of medical devices outside the United States are subject to government regulation and restrictions that vary from country to country. In addition, we, along with our distributors and health care providers who purchase our products and services, are subject to state and federal laws prohibiting kickbacks or other forms of bribery in the health care industry. We may be subject to civil and criminal prosecution for violations of any of these laws by our agents or us. Before our next generation catheter, CoolMax™ may be introduced into the U.S. market, we must obtain prior authorization from the FDA. This authorization is based on a review by the FDA of the medical device’s safety and effectiveness for its intended uses. We are currently seeking the FDA’s approval of CoolMax pursuant to a pre-market approval application. The process of obtaining clearances or approvals from the FDA and other applicable regulatory authorities can be expensive, uncertain and time consuming. While we are in the process of obtaining approval of our next generation catheter, we may not be able to obtain necessary approvals for clinical testing or for the manufacturing or marketing of this product or any of our other products in the United States or in other countries. If regulatory approvals for our next generation catheter, CoolMax™, or any of our other products are not obtained on a timely basis, or not approved as submitted, or at all, it could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, delays in receipt of regulatory approvals for our products or failure to receive such approvals, the loss of previously obtained approvals, or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements would have a significant negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Even if such an approval is obtained, our failure to comply with applicable regulatory approvals could, among other things, result in fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product recalls, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. In addition, government regulations may be established that could prevent, delay, modify or rescind regulatory approval of our products. Any such position or change of position by the FDA may adversely impact our business and financial condition. Regulatory approvals, if granted, may include significant limitations on the indicated uses for which our products may be marketed in the United States or in other countries. In addition to obtaining such approvals, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may impose numerous other requirements on us. The FDA prohibits the marketing of approved medical devices for unapproved uses. In addition, product approvals can be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial marketing. In addition, the health care industry in the United States is generally subject to fundamental change due to regulatory, as well as political, influences. We anticipate that Congress and state legislatures will continue to review and assess alternative health care delivery and payment systems. Potential approaches that have been considered include controls on health care spending through limitations on the growth of private purchasing groups and price controls. We cannot predict what impact the adoption of any federal or state health care reform measures may have on our business. 13 Table of Contents We have been unprofitable recently. We incurred a net loss of $13.2 million (which includes $4.8 million of income tax expense to increase our valuation allowance to fully reserve our deferred tax assets and a $6.4 million charge for long-lived asset impairments and inventory write-downs) for the year ended June 30, 2007. Including the losses described above, since our inception, we have incurred losses of approximately $84.8 million. Although we were profitable in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, if physicians do not continue to purchase and use our Cooled ThermoTherapy systems to treat patients with BPH, we may not be able to once again achieve profitability. Because we expect to continue to incur additional expenses relating to sales and marketing activities and research and development activities, we will need to increase the revenues we receive from sales of our products in order to operate in a profitable manner. We cannot assure you that we will be able to increase our revenues, once again attain profitable operations, or successfully implement our business plan or future business opportunities. We have limited experience manufacturing some of our products and are dependent upon a limited number of third-party suppliers to manufacture our products. We manufacture the Targis system control unit, our recently approved CoolWave control unit, and single-use treatment catheters for use with our Targis and CoolWave control units at our suburban Minneapolis facility. Our success will depend upon our ability to cost-effectively manufacture a reliable product and deliver that product in a timely manner. Because we lack extensive manufacturing experience, we may encounter difficulties in maintaining production efficiencies, quality control and assurance, component supply and qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manufacture a reliable product and deliver that product to customers in a timely fashion. Our failure to maintain a reputation among our customers as a timely, responsive manufacturer, or our failure to remedy manufacturing issues in a timely manner and to our customers’ satisfaction, or higher than expected manufacturing costs, would adversely affect our business. Other than the Targis and CoolWave system control units and procedure kits, we outsource the remaining manufacturing for our products. We assemble Targis and CoolWave control units and procedure kits using materials and components supplied by various subcontractors and suppliers, as well as components we fabricate. We rely on single sources for several components, one of which is obtained from a source that has a patent for the technology. Our reliance on outside suppliers for our components involves risks including limited control over the price and uncertainty regarding timely delivery and quality of parts. Our supply agreement with Accellent Endoscopy for the production of the Prostatprobe disposable treatment catheter was terminated in April 2007. Prior to this termination, we signed an agreement with The MedTech Group, Inc. to become a qualified supplier of our Cooled ThermoTherapy single-use treatment catheter products. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, in connection with our strategy to develop a next generation catheter, we implemented an end-of-life plan for our Prostatron product line. As a result, we are currently in the process of negotiating an end-of-life build from a supplier so we can continue to support our Prostatron customers without treatment interruption until we can transition them to another of our products. The start-up, transfer, termination or interruption of any of these relationships or products, or the failure of these manufacturers or suppliers, some of which operate in countries outside of the United States, to supply products or components to us on a timely basis or in sufficient quantities, likely would cause us to be unable to meet customer orders for our products and harm our reputation with customers and our business. Identifying and qualifying alternative suppliers of components or manufacturers of products takes time and involves significant additional costs and may delay the production of our products. Further, if we obtain a new supplier for a component, manufacture our product with an alternative component or if our products are manufactured by an alternative manufacturer, we may need to obtain FDA approval of a PMA supplement to reflect changes in product manufacturing and the FDA may require additional testing of any component from new suppliers prior to our use of these components. Further, if FDA approval of a PMA supplement is required, any delays in delivery of our product to customers would be extended and our costs associated with the change in product manufacturing would increase. 14 Table of Contents The failure of our third-party manufacturers to manufacture the products for us, and the failure of our components suppliers to supply us with the components, consistent with our requirements as to quality, quantity and timeliness, would materially harm our business. We are dependent on adequate protection of our patent and proprietary rights. We rely on patents, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, know-how, license agreements and contractual provisions to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. However, these legal means afford us only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or remedies to gain or keep any advantages we may have over our competitors. We cannot assure you that others may not independently develop the same or similar technologies or otherwise obtain access to our technology and trade secrets. Our competitors, many of which have substantial resources and may make substantial investments in competing technologies, may apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit, or interfere with our ability to manufacture or market our products. Further, while we do not believe that any of our products or processes interfere with the rights of others, third parties may nonetheless assert patent infringement claims against us in the future. Costly litigation may be necessary to enforce patents issued to us, to protect trade secrets or “know-how” we own, to defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of others or to determine the ownership, scope, or validity of our proprietary rights and the rights of others. In connection with the settlement of a patent infringement suit we filed in March 2002, we granted, in January 2004, ProstaLund AB, ProstaLund Operations AB and Circon Corporation (a/k/a ACMI Corporation) a non-exclusive, royalty free license under certain of our patents to sell the ProstaLund transurethral microwave thermotherapy system marketed in the United States by ACMI Corporation as the CoreTherm device. Any claim of infringement against us may involve significant liabilities to third parties, could require us to seek licenses from third parties, and could prevent us from manufacturing, selling, or using our products. The occurrence of this litigation or the effect of an adverse determination in any of this type of litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business of the manufacturing, marketing, and sale of medical devices involves the risk of liability claims and such claims could seriously harm our business, particularly if our insurance coverage is inadequate. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the testing, production, marketing and sale of medical devices. Like other participants in the medical device market, we are from time to time involved in lawsuits, claims and proceedings alleging product liability and related claims such as negligence. If any current or future product liability claims become substantial, our reputation could be damaged significantly, thereby harming our business. We may be required to pay substantial damage awards as a result of any successful product liability claims. Any product liability claim against us, whether with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, and divert the time, attention, and resources of our management. As a result of our exposure to product liability claims, we currently carry product liability insurance covering our products with policy limits per occurrence and in the aggregate that we have deemed to be sufficient. Our insurance may not cover certain product liability claims or our liability for any claims may exceed our coverage limits. Therefore, we cannot predict whether this insurance is sufficient, or if not, whether we will be able to obtain sufficient insurance to cover the risks associated with our business or whether such insurance will be available at premiums that are commercially reasonable. In addition, these insurance policies must be renewed annually. Although we have been able to obtain liability insurance, such insurance may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful claim against us or settlement by us with respect to uninsured liabilities or in excess of our insurance coverage, or our inability to maintain insurance in the future, or any claim that results in significant costs to or adverse publicity against us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Our products may be subject to product recalls even after receiving FDA clearance or approval, which would harm our reputation and our business. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries in which our products are sold, have the authority to request and, in some cases, require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects. Any recall of product would divert managerial and financial resources, harm our reputation with our customers and damage our business. We are dependent on key personnel. Our failure to attract and retain skilled personnel could hinder the management of our business, our research and development, our sales and marketing efforts, and our manufacturing capabilities. Our future success depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of key senior management personnel, including Fred B. Parks, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. We have an employment agreement with Mr. Parks that provides that Mr. Parks will serve as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and that either party may terminate Mr. Parks’ employment at any time with or without cause. If we terminate Mr. Parks’ employment without cause, however, we would be required to make specified payments to him as described in his employment agreement. We do not have key person life insurance on Mr. Parks. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified managerial, technical and sales personnel. Our inability to retain or attract qualified personnel could have a significant negative effect and thereby materially harm our business and financial condition. We may not have additional financing available to us. We generated approximately $1.5 million of net cash from operating activities in the year ended June 30, 2007 and ended that period with approximately $12.3 million of cash and cash equivalents. We believe our $12.3 million in cash and cash equivalents, together with the funds generated from product sales, will be sufficient to fund our working capital and capital resources needs for the next 12 months. Our business plan and financing needs are subject to change depending on, among other things, success of our efforts to continue to effectively manage expenses, market conditions, business opportunities and cash flow from operations, if any. We may require additional financing to continue our business, the receipt of which cannot be assured. Such additional financing could be sought from a number of sources, including possible sales of equity or debt securities or loans from banks or other financial institutions. We may not be able to obtain additional financing from any source on reasonable terms, if at all. Any future capital that is available may be raised on terms that are dilutive to our shareholders. Fluctuations in our future operating results may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to fluctuate from time to time in the future. Some of the factors that may cause these fluctuations include but are not limited to: • the timing, volume and pricing of customer orders for both control units and single-use treatment catheters, • the impact to the marketplace of competitive products and pricing, • the timing of expenditures related to sales and marketing, and research and development, and • product availability. If our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock may fall abruptly and significantly. 16 Table of Contents Our stock price may be volatile and a shareholder’s investment could decline in value. Our stock price has fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly, making it difficult for an investor to resell shares or to resell shares at an attractive price. The market prices for securities of emerging companies have historically been highly volatile. Future events concerning us or our competitors could cause such volatility, including: • actual or anticipated variations in our operating results, • technological innovations or new commercial products introduced by us or our competitors, • developments regarding government and third-party reimbursement, • changes in government regulation, • government investigation of us or our products, • result of regulatory process for approval of our next generation catheter, • changes in reimbursement rates or methods affecting our products, • developments concerning proprietary rights, • litigation or public concern as to the safety of our products or our competitors’ products, • investor perception of us and our industry, • general economic and market conditions including market uncertainty, • national or global political events, • difficulties with international expansion or operations, • public confidence in the securities markets and regulation by or of the securities markets, and • changes in senior management. In addition, the stock market is subject to price and volume fluctuations that affect the market prices for companies in general, and small-capitalization, high-technology companies in particular, which are often unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Any failure by us to meet or exceed estimates of financial analysts is likely to cause a decline in our common stock price. Future sales of shares of our common stock may negatively affect our stock price. Future sales of our common stock could have a significant negative effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, upon exercise of outstanding options, the number of shares outstanding of our common stock could increase substantially. This increase, in turn, could dilute future earnings per share, if any, and could depress the market value of our common stock. Dilution and potential dilution, the availability of a large amount of shares for sale, and the possibility of additional issuances and sales of our common stock may negatively affect both the trading price of our common stock and the liquidity of our common stock. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we would deem appropriate. Provisions of Minnesota law, our governing documents and other agreements may deter a change of control of us and may have a possible negative effect on our stock price. Certain provisions of Minnesota law, our articles of incorporation and bylaws and other agreements may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us, including: • the provisions of Minnesota law relating to business combinations and control share acquisitions; • the provisions of our bylaws regarding the business properly brought before shareholders; 17 Table of Contents • the provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws regarding our staggered board of directors; • the right of our board of directors to establish more than one class or series of shares and to fix the relative rights and preferences of any such different classes or series; and • the provisions of our stock option plans allowing for the acceleration of vesting or payments of awards granted under the plans in the event of specified events that result in a “change in control” and provisions of agreements with certain of our executive officers requiring payments if their employment is terminated and there is a “change in control.” These measures could discourage or prevent a takeover of us or changes in our management, even if an acquisition or such changes would be beneficial to our shareholders. This may have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 