Item 1A. Risk Factors American Eagle’s operations are subject to a number of risks including: American Eagle may have insufficient resources to cover its operating expenses, and consummating a business combination could lead to it being forced to shut down or to have to raise capital at prices that would result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders. As of the 12-31-2011 fiscal year end, American Eagle had a cash balance in the bank of $51. Additionally, the Company’s liabilities at December 31, 2011, were $12,455. The Company had a working capital deficit of $12,404 and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2011, were $9,379. Mr. Eardley estimates legal, accounting and related costs to be up to $15,000 per year to maintain SEC reporting requirements. Monies spent on investigating possible business ventures, and the $10,900 and the $1,500 promissory notes currently owing to Mr. Eardley, will need to be paid back to Mr. Eardley by the Company. These amounts could be significant and could preclude certain companies from having an interest in completing a business combination with the Company. The Company has limited cash to cover its operating expenses for the next 12 months and to cover the expenses incurred in connection with a business combination, and given the Company’s lack of funds, it would be difficult to reimburse Mr. Eardley. It is possible that the Company could incur substantial costs in connection with a business combination. If American Eagle does not have sufficient cash available to cover its expenses, it may be forced to either shut down or obtain additional financing, either from Mr. Eardley or third parties. Mr. Eardley may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, if at all, and neither Mr. Eardley nor any third party is obligated to provide any financing. It is likely any future funds obtained would result in a substantial dilution to current stockholders. 4 The nature of American Eagle’s operations is speculative and the success of its plan of operation will depend to a great extent on the operations, financial condition and management of the companies with which it may merge or which it acquires, and current investors will be investing in the new management and business without the ability to review such management or business with all the risk associated therewith including the possibility the Company will not be successful. While Mr. Eardley intends to seek a merger or acquisition of privately held entities with established operating histories, there can be no assurance that Mr. Eardley will be successful in locating an acquisition candidate meeting such criteria. Additionally, Mr. Eardley, American Eagle’s sole officer and director has limited experience in locating and evaluating potential business opportunities or merger candidates. In the event the Company completes a merger or acquisition transaction, of which there can be no assurance, its success, if any, will be dependent upon the operations, financial condition and management of the acquired company, and upon numerous other factors beyond Mr. Eardley’s control. Stockholders will be dependent on the judgment of Mr. Eardley in making acquisition or merger decisions. Investors will not be able to assess specific business risks because the Company has not identified the business opportunities in which it will attempt to obtain an interest and, as such, investors and stockholders will be placing their money in an unknown investment. Due to the fact that the Company has not identified a target business for acquisition, the Company cannot describe the specific risks presented by such business. Among other risks, such target business may involve an unproven product, technology or marketing strategy, the ultimate success of which cannot be assured. The target business may be in competition with larger, more established firms which may have many competitive advantages over the target business. American Eagle’s investment in a target business may be highly risky and illiquid, and could result in a total loss if the acquired business is unsuccessful. Additionally, as long as Mr. Eardley has majority control of the voting shares of the Company, which will most likely be the case until a merger or acquisition is completed, shareholders will not have the ability to evaluate or approve any potential business opportunities. Control of the Company, its direction and any business decisions such as potential companies to merge with will remain with Mr. Eardley, the sole officer and director. Kip Eardley, the sole officer and director of the Company, has the ability to control the shareholder vote through his ownership of 1,000,000 shares of Series E Preferred stock, which contain a provision for 10 votes for each preferred share. Accordingly, Mr. Eardley’s 1,000,000 Series E Preferred shares provide 10,000,000 votes to Mr. Eardley, which effectively gives Mr. Eardley 59 percent of the voting control of the Company. Through not only the control of management, but Mr. Eardley’s voting power, Mr. Eardley will be able to control the Company and its directions and business decisions. Current shareholders will not be able to remove Mr. Eardley through a shareholder vote given his voting power and any vote of shareholders on corporate matters will be able to be controlled by Mr. Eardley. Therefore, Mr. Eardley, alone, and not the owners of common stock of the Company, will have discretion over any decisions made by the Company, such as a decision to enter into a particular business combination transaction. American Eagle’s limited funds and the lack of full-time management will likely make it difficult to conduct a complete and exhaustive investigation and analysis of a business opportunity, and, as such, the likelihood that an acquisition is not successful is very high, and investors or stockholders could lose all of their investment. Mr. Eardley’s decision to commit American Eagle’s capital or other resources to an acquisition will likely be made without detailed feasibility studies, independent analysis and market surveys. Mr. Eardley will be particularly dependent in making decisions upon information provided by the promoter, owner, sponsor, or others associated with the business opportunity seeking American Eagle’s participation. There are numerous individuals, publicly held companies, and privately held companies seeking merger and acquisition prospects. There is significant competition among such groups for merger and acquisition prospects and the number of suitable and attractive prospects is limited and the Company may find a scarcity of suitable companies with audited financial statements seeking merger partners. Additionally, with limited financial and managerial resources, Mr. Eardley will be limited in his review of any prospective mergers or acquisition companies, potentially increasing the risk of such a merger or acquisition. As such, it is possible that any merger or acquisition will not be successful, resulting in the bankruptcy of the Company and the loss of an investor’s or stockholder’s entire investment. The Company’s auditors have indicated in their audit opinion that there is a substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern which will affect American Eagle’s ability to raise capital or borrow money. The Company’s auditors have issued an audit opinion indicating that there is a substantial doubt about American Eagle’s ability to remain as a going concern. As such, any potential investor or lender is unlikely to be willing to provide additional capital or loans to the Company. We will, therefore, most likely have to continue to rely on the financial support of American Eagle’s sole officer and director, Kip Eardley. Mr. Eardley has provided capital in the past but may at some point in the future be unwilling or unable to provide additional capital. If Mr. Eardley did not provide additional capital, it is highly likely the Company would go out of business and shareholders would lose their entire investment in the Company. 5 Attracting new directors and officers may be expensive, and may require that American Eagle enters into long-term employment agreements, issue stock options, and otherwise provide incentives to the new directors and officers which could dilute current stockholders or decrease American Eagle’s stock price leading to losses for current stockholders. The Company may need to attract new directors and officers in order to achieve its business objective, which is to acquire one or more domestic and/or foreign operating businesses. Attracting new directors and officers may be expensive, and may require that the Company enters into long-term employment agreements, issues stock options, and otherwise provides incentives to the new directors and officers which may further dilute current stockholders or cause a decrease in American Eagle’s stock price leading to losses for current stockholders. As the Company will have only a limited ability to evaluate potential new directors and officers, and the management of target businesses, investors or stockholders will be placing their money with a management team that they have not had an opportunity to evaluate, increasing the risk investors or stockholders may lose their entire investment. Mr. Eardley may make a determination that he, as the current director and officer, should not remain, or should reduce his role, following money raising or a business combination, based on an assessment of the experience and skill sets of new directors and officers and the management of target businesses. Mr. Eardley cannot make assurances that his assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. This could have a negative impact on the Company and its stock price. Such an impact could result in the loss of an investor’s or stockholder’s entire investment. American Eagle’s director and sole officer, Mr. Eardley, allocates time to other businesses, thereby causing conflicts of interest in his determination as to how much time to devote to American Eagle’s affairs which increases the likelihood the Company will not be successful or that the Company will not be able to respond timely to business opportunities resulting in the Company not being successful. Mr. Eardley does not work full time for American Eagle and may have outside business interests that directly conflict with those of American Eagle. This could have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to consummate money raising or a business combination. Mr. Eardley is not required to, and does not, commit his full time to American Eagle’s affairs, thereby causing conflicts of interest in allocating his time between American Eagle’s operations and the operations of other businesses. Mr. Eardley is engaged in other business endeavors and is not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per day or per week to American Eagle’s affairs. This situation limits Mr. Eardley’s ability to devote time to Company affairs and could have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to consummate a business combination. Currently, Mr. Eardley sets aside approximately 50% of his time in addressing the operations of American Eagle. The remainder of Mr. Eardley’s time is applied to benefitting privately held companies. None of these companies are seeking business combination transactions or public offerings of any kind. American Eagle does not intend to have any full-time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. If the Company is unable to consummate a business combination, Mr. Eardley will be forced to shut down the operations of American Eagle, resulting in the loss of the stockholders’ investments. There is a lack of meaningful public market for American Eagle’s securities and investors or stockholders should look to an investment in us as a long-term, illiquid investment which they may not be able to resell. Although the Company’s common stock is listed for trading on the Pink Sheets, at present, no active market exists and no broker/dealers are actively making a market in American Eagle’s common stock, resulting in little trading activity and buyers for the Company’s common stock. Therefore, there is no assurance that a regular trading market will develop and if developed, that it will be sustained. A purchaser of stock may, therefore, be unable to resell American Eagle’s common stock should he or she desire to do so. Furthermore, it is unlikely that a lending institution will accept American Eagle’s common stock as pledged collateral for loans. Investors should therefore look at American Eagle’s stock as an illiquid, long-term investment that they may never be able to resell. 6 The Company’s acquisitions of businesses may be extremely risky and it could lose all or part of shareholder and investor investments and it is unlikely the Company would be able to survive following a loss of its investment or a merger with such a company. Companies American Eagle merges with or acquires will generally be less established or still trying to obtain profitability. An investment in these companies may be extremely risky because, among other things, the companies it is likely to focus on: · typically have limited operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; · tend to be privately-owned and generally have little publicly available information and, as a result, the Company may not learn all of the material information it needs to know regarding these businesses; · are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of people; and, as a result, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these people could have an adverse impact on the operations of any business that the Company may acquire; · may have less predictable operating results; · may from time to time be parties to litigation; · may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence; and · may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position. With these risks, it is likely such a company would not be successful, which would result in the Company having to close operations since it would be dependent on the success of such a company. A relatively small number of stockholders and managers have significant influence over American Eagle and other stockholders will not be able to have a voice in the direction of the company and stockholders may disagree with the decisions of management. Mr. Eardley would be able to exert significant influence over American Eagle through his ability to influence the election of directors and all other matters that require action by the American Eagle stockholders. The voting power of Mr. Eardley could have the effect of preventing or delaying a change in control of the Company which he opposes, even if other American Eagle stockholders believe it is in their best interests. In addition, Mr. Eardley has the ability to influence American Eagle’s day-to-day operations. These factors could negatively affect American Eagle and its stock price as other investors may be unwilling to invest in a company with such a consolidation of control. Additionally, if stockholders dislike the decisions of Mr. Eardley, it will be difficult for stockholders to get rid of him and with Mr. Eardley’s current majority voting power, common shareholders will not have an opportunity to evaluate or approve any potential business opportunities. There is a significant likelihood of dilution of American Eagle’s existing stockholders which could result in the loss on any investment by existing stockholders. It is likely that the anticipated value of the business and/or assets that American Eagle acquires relative to the current value of our securities will result in the issuance of a relatively large number of shares and, as a result, American Eagle current stockholders could experience substantial dilution to their percentage ownership. If such dilution were to occur, the price of American Eagle’s stock would be negatively impacted resulting in possible losses for existing stockholders. 7 