Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report, in evaluating the Company and our common stock. If any of the risks described below actually occurs, our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price could be materially adversely affected. Assets under management are impacted by market conditions, and adverse market conditions could reduce our assets under management and our revenue. Our revenues are based on assets under management, which are directly correlated to domestic and global market conditions in the equity and credit markets. The value of assets under management can decline due to price declines in specific securities, in the securities markets generally, or in specific market segments or geographic areas where those assets are invested. If our revenues decline without a commensurate reduction in our expenses, our net income will be reduced. The economic environment has a direct impact on the investing activities of both retail and institutional investors, which could impact asset flows, and on the value of assets under management. The financial markets continue to experience significant volatility globally. Funds and portfolios that we manage related to certain geographic markets and industry sectors are also vulnerable to political, social and economic events. If the security markets decline or continue to experience volatility, this could have a negative impact on our assets under management and our revenues. Increases in interest rates from their present, historically low levels also may adversely affect the net asset values of our assets under management. Increases in interest rates may result in reduced prices in equity and credit markets. Conversely, decreases in interest rates could lead to outflows in fixed income or liquidity assets that we manage as investors seek higher yields. Any of these effects could lower our assets under management and revenues. The current historically low interest rate environment affects the yields of money market funds, which are based on the income from the underlying securities less the operating costs of the funds. With short term interest rates at or near zero, the operating expenses of money market funds may become greater than the income from the underlying securities. Poor relative investment performance of our products could adversely affect our assets under management, sales, revenues and earnings. The performance of our investment strategies is critical to the maintenance and growth of assets under management. Net flows related to our investment strategies can be affected by investment performance relative to other competing investment strategies. Investment management strategies are rated, ranked or assessed by independent third-parties, distribution partners, and industry periodicals and services. These assessments often affect the investment decisions of our clients. If the performance or assessment of our investment strategies is seen as underperforming relative to peers, it could result in an increase in the withdrawal of assets by existing clients, the inability to attract additional investments from existing and new clients, and an increased risk of litigation and regulatory action. Lower assets under management would result in a reduction of fee revenue, and, if our revenues decline without a commensurate reduction in our expenses, our earnings will be reduced. Our clients could terminate or amend their contracts with us on short notice, which could reduce our revenues and earnings. Our clients include the boards of directors for our sponsored mutual funds, managed account program sponsors, private clients, and institutional clients. Our investment management agreements with these clients may be terminated upon short notice without penalty. As a result, there would be little impediment to these sponsors or clients terminating our agreements. Investment contracts are generally terminated for factors including investment performance or regulatory or compliance issues. 12 Table of Contents Our sponsored funds are governed by an independent board of directors. These directors may deem it to be in the best interests of a fund’s shareholders to make decisions adverse to us, such as reducing the compensation paid to us, requesting that we subsidize fund expenses over certain thresholds, or imposing restrictions on our management of the fund. Under the Investment Company Act, the investment advisory agreements for our mutual funds automatically terminate in the event of an assignment, which may occur if, among other events, the Company undergoes a change in control, such as any person acquiring 25% voting rights of our common stock. If an assignment were to occur, we could continue to act as adviser to a fund only if that fund’s board of directors and stockholders approved a new investment advisory agreement. In addition, investment advisory agreements for the separate accounts we manage may not be assigned without the consent of the client. If an assignment occurs, we cannot be certain that the Company will be able to obtain the necessary fund approvals or the necessary consents from our clients. The termination of any investment management contract relating to a material portion of assets under management would adversely affect our investment management fee revenues and earnings and could require an impairment charge to the goodwill or intangible assets associated with our asset managers or investment advisory agreements. Any damage to our reputation could harm our business and lead to a loss of assets under management, revenues and income. Maintaining a strong reputation with the investment community is critical to our success. Our reputation is vulnerable to many threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or impossible to remediate even if they are without merit or satisfactorily addressed. Any damage to our reputation could impede our ability to attract and retain clients and key personnel, and lead to a reduction in the amount of our assets under management, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and income. We may be required to, or elect to, support the stable net asset values of our money market funds, which could negatively affect our revenues or earnings. Approximately $2.3 billion or 6.6% of our total assets under management is managed in money market funds. Although money market funds seek to preserve a stable net asset value, and our money market funds have always maintained this stable net asset value, there is no guarantee that this stable net asset value will be achieved in the future. Market conditions domestically and globally could lead to severe liquidity or security pricing issues, which could impact their net asset values. If the net asset value of our money market fund were to fall below its stable net asset value, we would likely experience significant redemptions in money market assets under management, loss of shareholder confidence, and reputational harm, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues or net income. If a money market fund's stable net asset value comes under pressure, we may elect to provide credit, liquidity, or other support to the fund. We are not legally required to support any money market fund, and there can be no assurance that any support would be sufficient to avoid an adverse impact. A decision to provide support may arise from factors specific to our funds or from industry-wide factors. If we elect to provide support, we could incur losses from the support we provide and incur additional costs, including financing costs, in connection with the support. These losses and additional costs could be material, and could adversely affect our earnings. If we were to take such actions we may also restrict our corporate assets, limiting our flexibility to use these assets for other purposes, and may be required to raise additional capital. 13 Table of Contents Any failure to comply with established client investment guidelines or other contractual requirements could result in claims from clients and regulatory sanctions. The agreements under which we manage assets often have established investment guidelines or other contractual requirements that we are required to comply with in providing our investment management services. Any allegation of a failure to comply with these guidelines or other requirement could result in client claims, hurt reputation, withdrawal of assets, and potential regulatory sanctions, any of which may negatively impact our revenues and earnings. Our business utilizes third-party service providers, and any inadequate performance by those providers could adversely impact our revenues and earnings. We are dependent on certain third-party relationships to maintain essential business operations. These services include, but are not limited to, information technology infrastructure, investment accounting services, transfer agent and cash management services, custodial services, security pricing services, and subadvisory agreements with unaffiliated investment managers for 31.4% of our assets under management at December 31, 2011. The services provided by these third-parties are critical to our business. While we operate under contractual arrangements which address fulfillment of services, and we have the ability to terminate providers, any material disruption or deficiency in these contracted services could materially affect our business operations and profitability. Our business relies on the ability to attract and retain key employees, and the loss of such employees could negatively affect financial performance. The success of our business is dependent to a large extent on our ability to attract and retain key employees such as senior executives, portfolio managers, securities analysts and sales personnel. Competition in the job market for these professionals is generally intense. Most of our employees are not subject to employment contracts or non-compete agreements so they may voluntarily terminate their employment at any time. In certain circumstances, the departure of key employees could cause higher redemption rates for certain assets under management, or the loss of certain client accounts. Any inability to retain our key employees, attract qualified employees, or replace key employee positions in a timely manner when vacated, could have a negative impact on our business. There could be additional costs to replace, retain or attract new talent which would result in a decrease in net income. We face strong competition in our businesses, and if we are not able to compete effectively, it could impair our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and maintain our profitability. We face strong competition in our businesses from mutual fund companies, banks and investment management firms, many of which have advantages over us. We believe that our ability to compete is based on a number of factors, including, but not limited, to investment performance, service, reputation, distribution capabilities, product offerings, and fees charged. Industry consolidation has resulted in larger competitors with financial resources, marketing and distribution capabilities, and brand identities that are stronger than ours. Larger firms also may be able to offer, due to economies of scale, lower cost products. In addition, new or alternative product offerings frequently emerge or may increase in popularity, which could create additional competition and could result in decreased demand for our historical product offerings. If we do not compete effectively in this environment, our profitability and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents We are subject to an extensive and complex regulatory environment and adverse changes in regulations could materially affect our business. We are subject to extensive regulation, primarily at the federal level, in conjunction with our investment management business, and we may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation, regulations or standards, or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. The Company is registered with the SEC, our investment advisers are registered with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act, our sponsored funds are registered with the SEC under the Investment Company Act and our broker-dealer is registered with the SEC under the Exchange Act and is a member of FINRA. Most aspects of our investment management business, including the business of the sub-advisors, are subject to various federal and state laws and regulations. These laws generally grant supervisory agencies the power to limit or restrict us and any sub-adviser from carrying on its investment management business in the event that it fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations. Sanctions may include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on our investment management activities for specified periods of time, the revocation of the advisors’ registrations as investment advisors or other censures and fines. Although we spend substantial time and resources on compliance with laws and regulations, our inability to timely and properly modify and update our compliance procedures in this changing and highly complex regulatory environment could result in our being subject to sanctions, fines, and various other penalties and even expulsion from particular activities or markets. Because of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of any legal claims or regulatory inquiries or other matters, we cannot provide assurance as to the outcome of pending or future matters, or if ultimately determined adversely to us, monetary or reputational implications. The resolution of such matter or matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. While we maintain insurance that we believe is appropriate relative to our business, we cannot be assured that insurance will cover all of our potential liabilities or losses. Some regulatory and other liabilities or penalties are not generally covered by insurance. In addition, insurance coverage may become more costly and require higher deductibles or co-insurance arrangements. Should this occur, it would expose us to greater non-insured losses, increase our expenses and negatively impact our earnings. We have potentially significant tax attributes, and any changes in tax laws or limitations on our tax attributes could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We are subject to federal and state income taxes in the United States. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the appropriateness of our tax positions and reporting. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could be unfavorable. In addition, our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes available to us will be dependent on our ability to generate taxable income. Our ability to utilize tax attributes currently available to us is limited under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (“Section 382”). Section 382 imposes annual limitations on the amount of net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes that can be used to offset taxable income in the event an ownership change has occurred, as defined as substantial changes in ownership. We currently have limitations as a result of Section 382 due to changes in the Company’s stockholder base that occurred in 2009, and could experience additional, more restrictive limitations in the event another ownership change occurs. Changes in tax law or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate, increase the amount of taxes we are required to pay and have a significant adverse affect on our future results of operations and net income. 15 Table of Contents We have a significant amount of deferred tax assets, a large portion of which related to the dissolution of an inactive subsidiary and the application of Internal Revenue Code Section 165(g). In connection with the 165(g), the Company has recorded an ordinary loss related to the dissolution of an inactive subsidiary. Related to the dissolution, the Company received a private letter ruling that relies on certain facts, assumptions and representations from management regarding the past conduct of the Company’s businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions or representations are determined to be incorrect, the Company may not be able to rely on the ruling and could be subject to significant tax liabilities in the event we utilize the related deferred tax assets. We distribute through intermediaries, and changes in key distribution relationships could reduce our revenues or increase our costs. Our primary source of distribution for our retail products is through intermediaries that include national, regional and independent broker-dealers, financial planners and registered investment advisors. Our success is highly dependent on access to these various distribution systems. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain access to these channels at all or at similar pricing. The inability to have such access could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, these intermediaries generally offer their customers a significant array of investment products which are in addition to, and which compete with, our own investment products. The intermediaries or their customers may favor competing investment products over those we offer. To the extent that existing or future intermediaries prefer to do business with our competitors, the sales of our products as well as our market share, revenue and net income could decline. We and our third-party service providers rely on numerous technology systems, and a temporary business interruption or security breach could negatively impact our operations, operating expenses and earnings. Our technology systems are critical to our operations and any failure or interruption of those systems or of our operations, whether resulting from technology or infrastructure breakdowns, defects or external causes such as fire, natural disaster or power disruptions, could result in financial loss, impact our reputation, and affect our ability to do business. Although we have in place disaster recovery plans, we may experience temporary interruptions if a natural disaster or prolonged power outages were to occur which could have a material negative impact on operations. We and certain of our third-party vendors receive and store personal information as well as non-public business information. Although we and our third-party vendors take precautions to password protect and encrypt our networks, laptops and mobile electronic hardware, it may still be vulnerable to hacking or other unauthorized use. A breach of the systems or hardware could result in an unauthorized release of this type of data which may result in fines or penalties as well as other costly mitigation activities, and harm to our reputation. Our common stock has relatively limited trading volume, and ownership is concentrated with a small number of shareholders, which could increase the volatility in our stock trading and dramatically affect our share price. A large percentage of our stock is held by a limited number of shareholders. If our larger shareholders decide to liquidate their positions, it could cause significant fluctuation in the share price of our common stock. Public companies with a relatively concentrated level of institutional shareholders, such as we have, often have difficulty generating trading volume in their stock. This illiquidity and our size can result in relative price discounts as compared to industry peers or to the stock’s inherent value. It can also result in limited or no research analyst coverage, the absence of which may make it difficult for a company to establish and hold a market following. 16 Table of Contents We have certain intangible assets, which could become impaired and have an adverse impact on our results of operations. At December 31, 2011, the Company had total assets of $286.4 million, which included $56.9 million of goodwill and other net intangible assets. We cannot be certain that we will ever realize the value of such intangible assets. It could be necessary to recognize impairment of these assets should we experience significant decreases in assets under management, the termination of one or more material investment management contracts or material outflows if clients withdraw their assets following the departure of a key employee or for any other reasons. We may need to raise additional capital or refinance existing debt in the future, and resources may not be available to us in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms. Our ability to meet the future cash needs of the Company is dependent upon our ability to generate cash or obtain financing. Although the Company has been successful in generating sufficient cash in the past, it may not be successful in the future. We may need to raise additional capital to fund current operations or new business initiatives, or refinance existing debt, and financing may not be available to us in sufficient amounts, on acceptable terms, or at all. Our ability to access capital markets efficiently depends on a number of factors, including the state of credit and equity markets, interest rates, credit spreads and our credit ratings. If we are unable to access capital markets to issue new debt, refinance existing debt or sell shares of our common stock as needed, or if we are unable to obtain such financing on acceptable terms, our business could be adversely impacted. Our shareholder rights plan could be interpreted to discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. Under our stockholders’ rights agreement, if any person or group, acquires, or begins a tender or exchange offer that could result in acquiring 15% or more of our common stock, or, in the case of BMO, any additional shares, without approval by our board under specified circumstances, our other stockholders will have the right to purchase shares of our common stock, or shares of the acquiring company, at a substantial discount to the public market price. In addition, provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law also restrict certain business combinations with interested stockholders. The Delaware General Corporation Law and our stockholders’ rights agreement may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. 17 Table of Contents SPECIAL NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report contains statements, including under the captions “Business,” “Risk Factors,” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” that are, or may be considered to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. All statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our beliefs or expectations, are forward-looking statements. These statements may be identified by such forward-looking terminology as “expect,” “estimate,” “plan,” “intend,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “may,” “should,” “could,” “continue,” “project” or similar statements or variations of such terms and relate to, among other things: • The expected impact of pending legal and regulatory matters. • Our future capital requirements, the anticipated uses of our cash and the sufficiency of our cash resources. Our forward-looking statements are based on a series of expectations, assumptions and projections about our Company, are not guarantees of future results or performance, and involve substantial risks and uncertainty, including assumptions and projections concerning our assets under management, net cash inflows and outflows, operating cash flows, and future credit facilities, for all forward periods. All of our forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report are as of the date of this Annual Report only. The Company can give no assurance that such expectations or forward-looking statements will prove to be correct. Actual results may differ materially. The Company does not undertake or plan to update or revise any such forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changes in plans, assumptions, estimates or projections, or other circumstances occurring after the date of this Annual Report, even if such results, changes or circumstances make it clear that any forward-looking information will not be realized. If there are any future public statements or disclosures by us which modify or impact any of the forward-looking statements contained in or accompanying this Annual Report, such statements or disclosures will be deemed to modify or supersede such statements in this Annual Report. Our business and our forward-looking statements involve substantial known and unknown risks and uncertainties, including those discussed under “Risk Factors,” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this Annual Report, as well as the following risks and uncertainties: (a) the effects of changes and volatility in political, economic or industry conditions, the interest rate environment, or financial and capital markets; (b) any poor relative investment performance of our asset management strategies and any resulting outflows of assets; (c) mutual fund sales in any period may be through a limited number of financial intermediaries, from a limited number of investment strategies, and impacted by relative performance and the breadth and type of investment products we offer; (d) any lack of availability of additional and/or replacement financing, as may be needed, on satisfactory terms or at all; (e) any inadequate performance of third-party relationships; (f) the withdrawal of assets from under our management; (g) our ability to attract and retain key personnel in a competitive environment; (h) the ability of independent trustees of our mutual funds and closed-end funds, and other clients, to terminate their relationships with us; (i) the possibility that our goodwill or intangible assets could become impaired, requiring a charge to earnings; (j) the competition we face in our business, including competition related to investment products and fees; (k) potential adverse regulatory and legal developments; (l) the difficulty of detecting misconduct by our employees, sub-advisors and distribution partners; (m) changes in accounting or regulatory standards or rules, including the impact of proposed rules which may be promulgated relating to Rule 12b-1 fees; (n) the ability to satisfy the financial covenants under existing debt agreements; and (o) certain other risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report or in any of our other filings with the SEC, which are available on our website at www.virtus.com under “Investor Relations.” 18 Table of Contents An occurrence of, or any material adverse change in, one or more of the risk factors or risks and uncertainties referred to in this Annual Report or included in our other periodic reports filed with the SEC could materially and adversely affect our operations, financial results, cash flows, prospects, and liquidity. You are urged to carefully consider all such factors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 