Item 1A. Risk Factors Weakness, budgetary caution or consolidation in the semiconductor and electronics industries may continue to negatively impact our business. In recent years, we believe that EDA industry growth has been adversely affected by many factors, including ongoing efforts by semiconductor companies to control their spending, uncertainty regarding the long-term growth rate of the semiconductor industry, excess EDA tool capacity of some of our customers and increased competition in the EDA industry itself causing pricing pressure on EDA vendors. If these factors persist or additional semiconductor industry growth does not occur (or if we do not benefit from any such increases), our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. We also believe that, over the long term, growth in EDA spending will continue to depend on growth in semiconductor R&D spending and continued growth in the overall semiconductor market. However, we cannot predict the timing or magnitude of growth in semiconductor revenues, R&D spending or spending on EDA products, nor whether we will benefit from any of these increases should they occur. Competition in the EDA industry may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We compete with other EDA vendors that offer a broad range of products and services, primarily Cadence Design Systems, Inc. and Mentor Graphics Corporation and with other EDA vendors that offer products focused on one or more discrete phases of the IC design process, such as Magma Design Automation, Inc. We also compete with customers' internally developed design tools and capabilities. If we fail to compete effectively, our business will be materially and adversely affected. We compete principally on technology leadership, product quality and features (including ease-of-use), time-to-results, post-sale support, interoperability with our own and other vendors' products, price and payment terms. Additional competitive challenges include the following: •Price continues to be a competitive factor. We believe that some EDA vendors are increasingly offering discounts, which could be significant. If we are unable to match a competitor's pricing for a particular solution, we may lose business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, particularly if the customer chooses to consolidate all or a substantial portion of their other EDA purchases with the competitor. •Technology in the EDA industry evolves rapidly. Accordingly, we must correctly anticipate and lead critical developments, innovate rapidly and efficiently, improve our existing products, and successfully develop or acquire new products. If we fail to do so, our business will be materially and adversely affected. •To compete effectively, we believe we must offer products that provide both a high level of integration into a comprehensive platform and a high level of individual product performance. We have invested significant resources into further development of our Galaxy Design Platform, integration of our Discovery Verification Platform and enhancement of its SystemVerilog and other advanced features and development of our Design for Manufacturing and IP portfolios. We can provide no assurance that our customers will find these tool and IP configurations more attractive than our competitors' offerings or that our efforts to balance the interests of integration versus individual product performance will be successful. •Payment terms are also an important competitive factor and are aggressively negotiated by our customers. Payment terms on time-based licenses have generally lengthened over time. Longer payment terms could continue in the future, which would negatively affect our future operating cash flow. 10 •Potential consolidation of competitors. If any of our competitors consolidate, they may be able to exert additional market power and/or offer lower pricing, either of which would make it more difficult to compete successfully. Lack of growth in new IC design starts, industry consolidation and other potentially long-term trends may adversely affect the EDA industry, including demand for our products and services. The increasing complexities of SoCs and ICs, and customers' concerns about managing cost and risk have also led to the following potentially long-term negative trends: •The number of IC design starts has remained flat during the last three years. New IC design starts are one of the key drivers of demand for EDA software. •A number of mergers in the semiconductor and electronics industries have occurred and more are likely. Mergers can reduce the aggregate level of purchases of EDA software and services, and in some cases, increase customers' bargaining power in negotiations with their suppliers, including Synopsys. •Due to factors such as increased globalization, cost controls among customers appear to have become more permanent, adversely impacting our customers' EDA spending. •Industry changes, plus the cost and complexity of IC design, may be leading some companies in these industries to limit their design activity in general, to focus only on one discrete phase of the design process while outsourcing other aspects of the design, or using Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs), an alternative chip technology. All of these trends, if sustained, could have a material adverse effect on the EDA industry, including the demand for our products and services, which in turn would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in, or interpretations of, accounting principles could result in unfavorable accounting charges or effects, including changes to our prior financial statements, which could cause our stock price to decline. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles, or in our interpretations of these principles, can have a significant effect on our reported results and may retroactively affect previously reported results. For example, in September 2006, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108, Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements (SAB 108). SAB 108 addresses the process and diversity in practice of quantifying misstatements and provides interpretive guidance on the consideration of the effects of prior year misstatements in quantifying current year misstatements for the purpose of a materiality assessment. In the year of adoption, SAB 108 allows a one-time cumulative effect transition adjustment for errors that were not previously deemed material, but are material under the guidance in SAB 108. We adopted the provisions of SAB 108 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and as a result recognized a one-time adjustment of approximately $14.9 million to retained earnings. In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes—an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48). FIN 48 addresses recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions. FIN 48 will be effective for Synopsys beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2008. Upon adoption of FIN 48, we are required to make an adjustment to opening retained earnings for the impact of adoption as well as adjust certain balance sheet amounts to conform with the new standard. While we are in the process of completing our review of FIN 48, we do not expect the adoption of FIN 48 to have a material impact on our retained earnings or our results of operations for fiscal year 2008. However, certain reclassifications to our assets and liabilities may be required. 11 We have received a Revenue Agent's Report from the Internal Revenue Service claiming a significant increase in our U.S. taxable income. An adverse outcome could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. On June 8, 2005, we received a Revenue Agent's Report ("RAR") in which the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") proposed to assess a net tax deficiency for fiscal years 2000 and 2001 of approximately $476.8 million, plus interest. This proposed adjustment primarily relates to transfer pricing transactions between Synopsys and a wholly-owned foreign subsidiary. We strongly believe the proposed IRS adjustment and resulting proposed deficiency are inconsistent with applicable tax laws, and that we thus have meritorious defenses to this proposed IRS adjustment. On July 13, 2005, we filed a protest to the proposed deficiency with the IRS, which caused the matter to be referred to the Appeals Division of the IRS. In December 2007, we reached a tentative settlement with the Appeals Division that would resolve this dispute. The settlement is subject to further review and approval within the government, which we expect will take several more months, but we believe that settlement is likely. If the settlement becomes final on the tentative terms agreed upon, then we have already adequately provided for this matter. Final resolution of this matter could take considerable time or may not be finally approved by the government, in which case, while we believe we are still adequately provided for regarding this matter, there is still a possibility that an adverse outcome of the matter could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Unfavorable tax law changes, an unfavorable government review of our tax returns or changes in our geographical earnings mix or forecasts of foreign source income could adversely affect our effective tax rate and our operating results. Our operations are subject to income and transaction taxes in the United States and in multiple foreign jurisdictions. A change in the tax law in the jurisdictions in which we do business, including an increase in tax rates or an adverse change in the treatment of an item of income or expense, could result in a material increase in our tax expense. Our tax filings are subject to review or audit by the Internal Revenue Service and state, local and foreign taxing authorities. We exercise judgment in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and, in the ordinary course of our business, there may be transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. In the third quarter of fiscal year 2006, the IRS started an examination of our federal income tax returns for the fiscal years 2002 through 2004. As of October 31, 2007, the examination is still in progress and no adjustments have been proposed by the IRS which would require an adjustment to the tax provision. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, we can provide no assurance that any final determination in the audit will not be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. If additional taxes are assessed as a result of an audit, there could be a material adverse effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made. We have large operations both in the United States and in multiple foreign jurisdictions with a wide range of statutory tax rates. Certain foreign operations are subject to temporary favorable foreign tax rates. Therefore, any changes in our geographical earning mix in various tax jurisdictions and expiration of foreign tax rulings could materially increase our effective tax rate. Furthermore, we maintain deferred tax assets related to federal foreign tax credits and our ability to use these credits is dependent upon having sufficient future foreign source income in the United States. Changes in our forecasts of such future foreign source income could result in an adjustment to the deferred tax asset and a related charge to earnings which could materially affect our financial results. Our revenue and earnings fluctuate, which could cause our financial results to not meet expectations and our stock price to decline. Many factors affect our revenue and earnings, including customer demand, license mix, the timing of revenue recognition on products and services sold and committed expense levels, making it difficult 12 to predict revenue and earnings for any given fiscal period. Accordingly, stockholders should not view our historical results as necessarily indicative of our future performance. From time to time, we provide guidance related to our future financial performance. In addition, financial analysts publish their own expectations of our future financial performance. Because our quarterly revenue and our operating results fluctuate, future financial performance is difficult to predict. Downward adjustments of our guidance or the failure to meet our guidance or the expectations of research analysts would cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Some of the specific factors that could affect our revenue and earnings in a particular quarter or over several fiscal periods include, but are not limited to: •We base our operating expenses in part on our expectations for future revenue and generally must commit to expense levels in advance of revenue being recognized. Since only a small portion of our expenses varies with revenue, any revenue shortfall typically causes a direct reduction in net income. •Our revenue and earnings targets over a number of fiscal periods assume a certain level of orders and a certain mix between upfront and time-based licenses. The amount of orders received and changes in the mix due to factors such as the level of overall license orders, customer demand, customer payment terms and ship dates could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and earnings. For example, if we ship more upfront licenses than expected during any given fiscal period, our revenue and earnings for that period could be above our targets even if orders are below target; conversely, if we ship fewer upfront licenses than expected, our revenue and earnings for that period could fall below our targets even if orders meet or even exceed our target. Similarly, if we receive a lower-than-expected level of time-based license orders during a given period, our revenue in future periods could be negatively affected. •We may be required to implement a number of cost control measures in order to meet our externally-communicated financial targets, any of which could fail to result in the anticipated cost savings or could adversely affect our business. •The market for EDA products is dynamic and depends on a number of factors including consumer demand for our customers' products, customer R&D and EDA tool budgets, pricing, our competitors' product offerings and customer design starts. It is difficult to predict in advance the effect of these and other factors on our customers' demand for our products on a medium or long term basis. As a result, actual future customer purchases could differ materially from our forecasts which, in turn, could cause our actual revenue to be materially different than our publicly- disclosed targets. •We often amend our contracts with our customers to extend the term or add new products. Although these amendments can provide a longer-term payment stream from the customers, they can also result in a lower amount of revenue being recognized per year than under the original arrangement even if the total value of the extended contract is larger. •Certain of our upfront and time-based license agreements provide customers the right to re-mix a portion of the software initially subject to the license for other specified Synopsys products. While this practice helps assure the customer's access to the complete design flow needed to manufacture its product, use of these arrangements could result in reduced revenue compared to licensing the individual tools separately. •In the past, we have regularly received a significant proportion of our orders for a given quarter in the last one or two weeks of the quarter. The delay of one or more orders, particularly an upfront order, could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and/or earnings for that quarter. 13 •We rely on a small number of customers for a large portion of our revenue and the loss of one of such customers could have an adverse effect on our subsequent revenue and/or earnings; •We make significant judgments relating to revenue recognition, specifically determining the existence of proper documentation, establishing that the fee is fixed or determinable, verifying delivery of our software and assessing the creditworthiness of our customers. While we believe our judgments in these areas are reasonable, there can be no assurance that such judgments will not be challenged in the future. In such an event, we could be required to reduce the amount of revenue we have recognized in prior periods, which would have an adverse impact on our reported results of operations for those periods. •Our customers spend a great deal of time reviewing and testing our products, either alone or against competing products, before making a purchase decision. Accordingly, our customers' evaluation and purchase cycles may not match our fiscal quarters. Further, sales of our products and services may be delayed if customers delay project approvals or starts because of budgetary constraints or their budget cycles. The failure to meet the semiconductor industry's demands for advancing EDA technology and continued cost reductions may adversely affect our financial results. SoC and IC functionality continues to increase while feature widths decrease, substantially increasing the complexity, cost and risk of IC design and manufacturing. To address greater complexity, semiconductor designers and manufacturers demand continuous innovation from EDA suppliers. At the same time, as a general business trend, we believe some customers and potential customers are seeking to buy more products from fewer suppliers and at reduced overall prices in an effort to reduce overall cost and risk. In order to succeed in this environment, we must successfully meet our customers' technology requirements, while also striving to reduce their overall costs and our own operating costs. Failure to manage these conflicting demands successfully would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Customer payment defaults or related issues could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our backlog consists principally of customer payment obligations not yet due that are attributable to software we have already delivered. These customer obligations are typically not cancelable, but will not yield the expected revenue and cash flow if the customer defaults or declares bankruptcy and fails to pay amounts owed. In these cases, we will generally take legal action to recover amounts owed. Moreover, existing customers may seek to renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments due to adverse changes in their own businesses. Though we have not, to date, experienced a material level of defaults, any material payment default by our customers or significant reductions in existing contractual commitments would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Businesses we have acquired or that we may acquire in the future may not perform as we project. We have acquired a number of companies or their assets in recent years and as part of our efforts to expand our product and services offerings we expect to make additional acquisitions in the future. In addition to direct costs, acquisitions pose a number of risks, including: •Potential negative impact on our earnings per share; •Failure of acquired products to achieve projected sales; •Problems in integrating the acquired products with our products; •Difficulties in retaining key employees and integrating them into our company; •Failure to realize expected synergies or cost savings; 14 •Regulatory delays; •Drain on management time for acquisition-related activities; •Assumption of unknown liabilities; and •Adverse effects on customer buying patterns or relationships. While we review proposed acquisitions carefully and strive to negotiate terms that are favorable to us, we can provide no assurance that any acquisition will positively affect our future performance. Furthermore, if we later determine we cannot use or sell an acquired product or technology, we could be required to write down the goodwill and intangible assets associated with the product or technology; any such write-downs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Conditions of foreign economies, foreign exchange rate fluctuations and the increasingly global nature of our operations could adversely affect our performance. During fiscal 2007 and 2006, we derived 50% and 49% of our revenue from outside the United States; going forward, we expect our overall orders and revenue targets will continue to depend on substantial contributions from customers outside the United States. Foreign sales are vulnerable to regional or worldwide economic, political and health conditions, including the effects of international political conflict, hostilities and natural disasters. Further, any deterioration of foreign economies or foreign currency exchange rates would adversely affect our performance by reducing the amount of revenue derived from outside the United States. Our operating results are also affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Our results of operations can be adversely affected when the U.S. dollar weakens relative to other currencies, including the Euro, the Japanese yen and the Canadian dollar, as a result of the conversion of revenue and expenses of our foreign operations denominated in foreign currencies into the dollar. Exchange rates are subject to significant and rapid fluctuations, and therefore we cannot predict the prospective impact of exchange rate fluctuations on our business, results of operations and financial condition. While we hedge some foreign currency exposures of our business, we are unable to hedge all of our currency exposures, and there can be no assurance our hedging activities will completely mitigate our foreign currency risks. In addition, we have expanded our non-U.S. operations significantly in the past several years. While the increased international presence of our business creates the potential for cost reductions locally and higher international sales, this strategy also requires us to recruit and retain qualified technical and managerial employees, manage multiple, remote locations performing complex software development projects and ensure intellectual property protection outside of the United States. The failure to effectively manage our global operations would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. From time to time we are subject to claims that our products infringe on third party intellectual property rights. Under our customer agreements and other license agreements, we agree in many cases to indemnify our customers if our products infringe on a third party's intellectual property rights. As a result, we are from time to time subject to claims that our products infringe on these third party rights. For example, in March 2007, we settled a matter with Magma Design, Inc. in which both parties claimed patent infringement. As part of the settlement, Magma paid us an aggregate of $12.5 million. We are also currently defending some of our customers against claims that their use of one of our products infringes on a patent held by a Japanese electronics company. We believe this claim is without merit and will continue to vigorously defend against it. 15 These types of claims can, however, result in costly and time-consuming litigation, require us to enter into royalty arrangements, subject us to damages or injunctions restricting our sale of products, require us to refund license fees to our customers or to forgo future payments or require us to redesign certain of our products, any one of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. A failure to protect our proprietary technology would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends in part upon protecting our proprietary technology. To protect this technology, we rely on agreements with customers, employees and others and on intellectual property laws worldwide. We can provide no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any breach or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. Moreover, some foreign countries do not currently provide effective legal protection for intellectual property; our ability to prevent the unauthorized use of our products in those countries is therefore limited. We have a policy of aggressively pursuing action against companies or individuals that wrongfully appropriate or use our products and technologies. For example, we are pursuing anti-piracy cases against certain companies located in China. However, there can be no assurance that these actions will be successful. If we do not obtain or maintain appropriate patent, copyright or trade secret protection, for any reason, or cannot fully defend our intellectual property rights in some jurisdictions, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, intellectual property litigation is lengthy, expensive and uncertain and legal fees related to such litigation may reduce our net income. Our business is subject to evolving corporate governance and public disclosure regulations that have increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. We are subject to rules and regulations promulgated by a number of governmental and self-regulated organizations, including the SEC, Nasdaq and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. Many of these regulations continue to evolve, making compliance more difficult and uncertain. In addition, our efforts to comply with these new regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations require us to include a management assessment of our internal control over financial reporting and auditor attestation of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports. This effort has required, and will continue to require in the future, the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. Any failure to complete a favorable assessment and obtain an unqualified opinion from our auditors could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. A failure to timely recruit and retain key employees would have a material adverse effect on our business. To be successful, we must attract and retain key technical, sales and managerial employees, including those who join Synopsys in connection with acquisitions. There are a limited number of qualified EDA and IC design engineers, and competition for these individuals is intense. Our employees are often recruited aggressively by our competitors and our customers. In addition, a reorganization of our operations to better address customer needs, improve operational efficiency or reduce expenses may lead to the loss of key employees. Any failure to recruit and retain key technical, sales and managerial employees would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 16 We issue stock options and restricted stock units and maintain employee stock purchase plans as a key component of our overall compensation. There is growing pressure on public companies from stockholders, who must approve any increases in our equity pool, generally to reduce our overhang or amount of outstanding and unexercised stock options. In addition, recent accounting rules that require us to recognize on our income statement compensation expense from employee equity grants and our employee stock purchase plan have increased pressure to limit equity grants. These factors may make it more difficult for Synopsys to grant attractive equity-based packages in the future, which could adversely impact our ability to attract and retain key employees. Product errors or defects could expose us to liability and harm our reputation. Despite extensive testing prior to releasing our products, software products frequently contain errors or defects, especially when first introduced, when new versions are released or when integrated with technologies developed by acquired companies. Product errors could affect the performance or interoperability of our products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products and could adversely affect market acceptance or perception of our products. In addition, allegations of IC manufacturability issues resulting from use of our IP products could, even if untrue, adversely affect our reputation and our customers' willingness to license IP products from us. Any such errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products or allegations of unsatisfactory performance could cause us to lose customers, increase our service costs, subject us to liability for damages and divert our resources from other tasks, any one of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. We rely on our network infrastructure and enterprise applications, and technology systems for our development, marketing, operational, support and sales activities. A disruption or failure of these systems in the event of a major earthquake, fire, telecommunications failure, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause system interruptions, delays in our product development and loss of critical data and could prevent us from fulfilling our customers' orders. Our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, our data centers, and certain other critical business operations are located in California, near major earthquake faults. We believe we have developed sufficient disaster recovery plans and backup systems to reduce the potentially adverse effect of such events, but a catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our data centers or our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 