Item 1A. Risk Factors We describe our risk factors below. Our operating results may fluctuate in the future, which may adversely affect our stock price. Our operating results are subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations, which may adversely affect our stock price. Our historical results should not be viewed as indicative of our future performance due to these periodic fluctuations. Many factors may cause our revenue and earnings to fluctuate, including: • Changes in demand for our products due to fluctuations in demand for our customers’ products and due to constraints in our customers’ budgets for research and development and EDA products and services; 9 Table of Contents • Product competition in the EDA industry, which can change rapidly due to consolidation and technological innovation; • Our ability to innovate and introduce new products and services or effectively integrate products and technologies that we acquire; • Failures or delays in completing sales due to our lengthy sales cycle; • Cancellations or changes to levels of license orders or the mix between upfront and time-based license revenue; • Our ability to implement effective cost control measures; • Delay of one or more orders for a particular period, particularly orders generating upfront revenue; • Our dependence on a relatively small number of large customers for a large portion of our revenue; • Changes in or challenges to our revenue recognition model; • Amendments or renewals of customer contracts which provide discounts or require the deferral of revenue to later periods; • Delays, increased costs or quality issues resulting from our reliance on third parties to manufacture our hardware products; and • General economic and political conditions that affect the semiconductor and electronics industries. These factors, or any other factors or risks discussed herein, could negatively impact our revenue and earnings and cause our stock price to decline. The growth of our business depends on the semiconductor and electronics industries. The growth of the EDA industry as a whole, and our business in particular, is dependent on the semiconductor and electronics industries. A substantial portion of our business and revenue depends upon the commencement of new design projects by semiconductor manufacturers and their customers. The increasing complexity of designs of SoCs and ICs, and customers’ concerns about managing costs, have in recent periods led to a decrease in design starts and design activity in general, with some customers focusing more on one discrete phase of the design process. If these trends continue, demand for our products and services could fall and our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Additionally, as the EDA industry matures, industry consolidation has caused increased levels of competition for a greater share of our customers’ EDA spending. This increased competition may cause our revenue growth rate to decline and exert downward pressure on our operating margins, which may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of the acquisitions we complete, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products. Acquisitions are an important part of our growth strategy. We have completed a significant number of acquisitions in recent years, including the acquisitions of CoWare, Inc., VaST Systems Technology Corporation, and Virage Logic Corporation, to increase revenue and expand our product offerings, and we expect to make additional acquisitions in the future. Achieving the potential financial or 10 Table of Contents technological benefits from these transactions is difficult and time consuming, and the integration of these acquisitions poses a number of risks, including: • Potential negative impact on our earnings per share; • Failure of acquired products to achieve projected sales; • Problems in integrating the acquired products with our products; • Potential downward pressure on operating margins due to lower operating margins of acquired businesses, increased headcount costs and other expenses associated with adding and supporting new products; • Difficulties in retaining and integrating key employees; • Failure to realize expected synergies or cost savings; • Assumption of unknown liabilities, including tax and litigation, and the related unanticipated expenses and diversion of resources; • Potential negative impact on our relationships with customers, distributors and business partners; and • Negative impact on our earnings resulting from the application of ASC 805, Business Combinations, which became applicable to us in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. If we do not manage these risks, the acquisitions that we complete may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. For instance, if we are unable to successfully integrate the products and technology from our recent acquisition of Virage Logic, we may not be able achieve the anticipated revenue growth from this transaction. Additionally, if we determine we cannot use or sell the acquired products or technology, we will be required to write down the associated intangible assets, which would harm our operating results. The continued uncertainty in the global economy, and its potential impact on the semiconductor and electronics industries in particular, may harm our business, operating results and financial condition. As a result of the recent major global recession, the global economy continues to experience significant uncertainty, stock market volatility, tightened credit markets, concerns about both deflation and inflation, reduced demand for products, lower consumer confidence, reduced capital spending, liquidity concerns and business insolvencies. These declines, and uncertainty about future economic conditions, could continue to negatively impact our customers’ businesses, reducing demand for our products and adversely affecting our business. The recent global recession adversely affected the semiconductor industry. Semiconductor companies generally remain cautious and focused on their costs, including in their research and development budgets out of which spending on EDA products and services occurs. These factors could among other things limit our ability to maintain or increase our sales or recognize revenue from committed contracts and in turn adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Under our business model, we generally expect more than 90% of our total revenue to be recurring revenue, as a substantial majority of our customers pay for licenses over a three-year period. However, the turmoil and uncertainty caused by recent economic conditions have caused some of our customers to postpone their decision-making, decrease their spending and/or delay their payments to us. Continued periods of decreased committed average annual revenue, additional customer bankruptcies, or consolidation among our customers, could adversely affect our year-over-year revenue growth. 11 Table of Contents The recent global recession also adversely affected the banking and financial industry. If the global economy continues to experience uncertainty, our ability to obtain credit on favorable terms could be jeopardized. Furthermore, we rely on several large financial institutions to act as counterparties under our foreign currency forward contracts, provide credit and provide banking transactions and deposit services worldwide. Should any of our banking partners declare bankruptcy or otherwise default on their obligations, it could adversely affect our financial results and our business. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of the global economic downturn or any subsequent recovery, so our future business and financial results are subject to considerable uncertainty, and our stock price is at risk of volatile change. If economic conditions further deteriorate or fail to significantly improve for any extended period of time, or, in particular, if semiconductor industry revenues do not grow, our future revenues and financial results will be adversely affected. Conversely, in the event of future improvements in economic conditions for our customers, the positive impact on our revenues and financial results may be deferred due to our business model. If we do not successfully compete in the EDA industry our business and financial condition will be harmed. We compete against EDA vendors that offer a variety of products and services, primarily Cadence Design Systems, Inc., Mentor Graphics Corporation and Magma Design Automation, Inc. We also compete with other EDA vendors, including frequent new entrants to the marketplace, that offer products focused on one or more discrete phases of the IC design process. Moreover, our customers internally develop design tools and capabilities that compete with our products. The demand for EDA products is dynamic and depends on a number of factors, including demand for our customers’ products, design starts and our customers’ budgetary constraints. In addition, our customers continue to demand an overall lower total cost of design, which can lead to the consolidation of their EDA purchases with one vendor. We compete principally on the basis of technology, product quality and features (including ease-of-use), license or usage terms, post-contract customer support, interoperability among products, and price and payment terms. Specifically, we believe the following competitive factors affect our success: • Our ability to anticipate and lead critical development cycles, innovate rapidly and efficiently, improve our existing products, and successfully develop or acquire new products; • Our ability to offer products that provide both a high level of integration into a comprehensive platform and a high level of individual product performance; • Our ability to enhance the value of our offering through more favorable terms such as expanded license usage, future purchase rights, price discounts and other unique rights, such as multiple tool copies, post-contract customer support, and the ability to purchase pools of technology; and • Our ability to compete on the basis of payment terms which continue to lengthen over time. If we fail to successfully manage these competitive factors, or if we fail to address new competitive forces, our business will be harmed. Consolidation in the EDA industry may negatively impact our operating results. The EDA industry in recent years has been subject to increased consolidation. We expect this trend to continue as companies within the industry attempt to increase or maintain market share by complimenting or expanding product offerings, or as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. Industry consolidation may result in stronger competition from companies that are better 12 Table of Contents able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. This could lead to fewer customers or the loss of one or more major customers, which would have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. If we fail to protect our proprietary technology our business will be harmed. Our success depends in part upon protecting our proprietary technology. We rely on agreements with customers, employees and others and on intellectual property laws worldwide to protect our proprietary technology. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Additionally, some foreign countries do not currently provide effective legal protection for intellectual property and our ability to prevent the unauthorized use of our products in those countries is therefore limited. Our trade secrets may also otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. We may need to commence litigation or other legal proceedings in order to: • Assert claims of infringement of our intellectual property; • Protect our trade secrets or know-how; or • Determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the propriety rights of others. If we do not obtain or maintain appropriate patent, copyright or trade secret protection, for any reason, or cannot fully defend our intellectual property rights in some jurisdictions, our business and operating results would be harmed. In addition, intellectual property litigation is lengthy, expensive and uncertain and legal fees related to such litigation will increase our operating expenses and may reduce our net income. Changes in accounting principles or standards, or in the way they are applied, could result in unfavorable accounting charges or effects and unexpected financial reporting fluctuations, and could adversely affect our reported operating results. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP. These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles and guidance. A change in these principles or guidance can have a significant effect on our reported results and may retroactively affect previously reported results. Additionally, proposed accounting standards could have a significant impact on our operational processes, revenues and expenses, and could cause unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and make comparability between periods less meaningful. We may have to invest more resources in research and development than anticipated, which could increase our operating expenses and negatively affect our operating results. We devote substantial resources to research and development. New competitors, technological advances by existing competitors, our acquisitions, our entry into new markets, or other competitive factors may require us to invest significantly greater resources than we anticipate. If we are required to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated without a corresponding increase in revenue, our operating results could decline. Additionally, our research and development expenses are likely to fluctuate from time to time to the extent we make periodic incremental investments in research and development. These investments may be independent of our level of revenue which could negatively impact our financial results. 13 Table of Contents Unfavorable tax law changes, an unfavorable government review of our tax returns or changes in our geographical earnings mix or forecasts of foreign source income could adversely affect our effective tax rate and our operating results. Our operations are subject to income and transaction taxes in the United States and in multiple foreign jurisdictions. Changes to tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we do business, such as an increase in tax rates or an adverse change in the treatment of an item of income or expense, could result in a material increase in our tax expense. Currently, a substantial portion of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets, including employees, are located outside the United States. United States income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings for certain non-United States subsidiaries to the extent such earnings are considered to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. On May 5, 2009 and February 1, 2010, the President of the United States and the U.S. Treasury Department proposed changing certain U.S. tax rules for U.S. corporations doing business outside the United States. Specific legislation has not yet been proposed or enacted, but it is possible that these or other changes in the U.S. tax laws could increase our U.S. income tax liability in the future. On August 10, 2010, the Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act of 2010 (P.L. 111-226) was enacted, which may limit our ability to use foreign tax credits on transactions we enter into after fiscal 2010. Our tax filings are subject to review or audit by the IRS and state, local and foreign taxing authorities. We exercise judgment in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and, in the ordinary course of our business, there may be transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Examinations of our federal tax returns for the years 2000-2001 and 2002-2004 by the IRS resulted in significant proposed adjustments which were subsequently settled. We can provide no assurance that any final determination in an audit will not be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. An assessment of additional taxes as a result of an audit could adversely affect our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made. We have operations both in the United States and in multiple foreign jurisdictions with a wide range of statutory tax rates. Certain foreign operations are subject to temporary favorable foreign tax rates. Therefore, any changes in our geographical earnings mix in various tax jurisdictions, including those resulting from transfer pricing adjustments and expiration of, or amendments to, foreign tax rulings could materially increase our effective tax rate. The global nature of our operations exposes us to increased risks and compliance obligations which may adversely affect our business. We derive approximately half of our revenue from sales outside the United States, and we expect our orders and revenue to continue to depend on sales to customers outside the United States. In addition, we have expanded our non-U.S. operations significantly in the past several years. This strategy requires us to recruit and retain qualified technical and managerial employees, manage multiple, remote locations performing complex software development projects and ensure intellectual property protection outside of the United States. Our international operations and sales subject us to a number of increased risks, including: • International economic and political conditions, such as political tensions between countries in which we do business; • Difficulties in adapting to cultural differences in the conduct of business; • Ineffective legal protection of intellectual property rights; • Financial risks such as longer payment cycles and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; 14 Table of Contents • Inadequate local infrastructure that could result in business disruptions; • Additional taxes and penalties; and • Other factors beyond our control such as terrorism, civil unrest, war and infectious diseases. If any of the foreign economies in which we do business deteriorate or if we fail to effectively manage our global operations, our business and results of operations will be harmed. In addition, our global operations are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including those related to anti-corruption, tax, corporate governance, imports and exports, financial and other disclosures, privacy and labor relations. These laws and regulations are complex and may have differing or conflicting legal standards, making compliance difficult and costly. If we violate these laws and regulations we could be subject to fines, penalties or criminal sanctions, and may be prohibited from conducting business in one or more countries. Although we have implemented policies and procedures to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate these laws and regulations. Any violation individually or in the aggregate could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Our operating results are affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Our operating results are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Our results of operations can be adversely affected when the U.S. dollar weakens relative to other currencies, as a result of the translation of expenses of our foreign operations denominated in foreign currencies into the U.S. dollar. Exchange rates are subject to significant and rapid fluctuations, and therefore we cannot predict the prospective impact of exchange rate fluctuations on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although we engage in foreign currency hedging activity, we may be unable to hedge all of our foreign currency risk. If foreign currency exchange rates deteriorate our operating results would be adversely affected by reducing the amount of revenue derived from outside of the United States. From time to time we are subject to claims that our products infringe on third party intellectual property rights. Under our customer agreements and other license agreements, we agree in many cases to indemnify our customers if our products infringe a third party’s intellectual property rights. As a result, we are from time to time subject to claims that our products infringe on these third party rights. We are currently defending some of our customers against claims that their use of one of our products infringes on a patent held by a Japanese electronics company. We believe this claim to be without merit and are vigorously defending against it. However, there can be no assurances that we will prevail. These types of claims can result in costly and time-consuming litigation, require us to enter into royalty arrangements, subject us to damages or injunctions restricting our sale of products, invalidate a patent or family of patents, require us to refund license fees to our customers or to forgo future payments or require us to redesign certain of our products, any one of which could harm our business and operating results. Product errors or defects could expose us to liability and harm our reputation and we could lose market share. Software products frequently contain errors or defects, especially when first introduced, when new versions are released or when integrated with technologies developed by acquired companies. Product errors could affect the performance or interoperability of our products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products and could adversely affect market acceptance or 15 Table of Contents perception of our products. In addition, allegations of IC manufacturability issues resulting from use of our IP products could, even if untrue, adversely affect our reputation and our customers’ willingness to license IP products from us. Any such errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products or allegations of unsatisfactory performance could cause us to lose customers, increase our service costs, subject us to liability for damages and divert our resources from other tasks, any one of which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Customer payment defaults or related issues could harm our operating results. The majority of our revenue backlog consists of customer payment obligations not yet due that are attributable to software we have already delivered. A significant portion of the revenue we recognize in any period comes from backlog and is dependent upon our receipt of cash from customers. We will not achieve expected revenue and cash flow if customers default, declare bankruptcy, or otherwise fail to pay amounts owed. Moreover, existing customers may seek to renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments due to adverse changes in their own businesses. Our customers’ financial condition, and in turn their ability or willingness to fulfill their contractual and financial obligations, could be adversely affected by current economic conditions. If payment defaults by our customers significantly increase or we experience significant reductions in existing contractual commitments, our operating results would be harmed. We may be subject to litigation proceedings that could harm our business. We may be subject to legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, competition, and other issues on a global basis. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or, in cases for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting us from manufacturing or selling one or more products. If we were to receive an unfavorable ruling on a matter, our business and results of operations could be materially harmed. If we fail to timely recruit and retain senior management and key employees our business may be harmed. We depend in large part upon the services of key members of our senior management team to drive our future success. If we were to lose the services of any member of our senior management team, our business could be adversely affected. To be successful, we must also attract and retain key technical, sales and managerial employees, including those who join Synopsys in connection with acquisitions. There are a limited number of qualified EDA and IC design engineers, and competition for these individuals is intense. Our employees are often recruited aggressively by our competitors and our customers. Any failure to recruit and retain key technical, sales and managerial employees would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We issue stock options and restricted stock units and maintain employee stock purchase plans as a key component of our overall compensation. We face pressure from stockholders, who must approve any increases in our equity pool, to limit the use of such equity-based compensation and its dilutive effect on stockholders. In addition, we are required under U.S. GAAP to recognize compensation expense in our results from operations for employee share-based equity compensation under our equity grants and our employee stock purchase plan, which has increased the pressure to limit share-based compensation. These factors may make it more difficult for us to grant attractive share-based packages in the future, which could adversely impact and limit our ability to attract and retain key employees. 16 Table of Contents Our business is subject to evolving corporate governance and public disclosure regulations that have increased both our compliance costs and the risk of noncompliance, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. We are subject to changing rules and regulations promulgated by a number of governmental and self-regulated organizations, including the SEC, the NASDAQ Global Market, and the Financial Accounting Standards Board. These rules and regulations continue to evolve in scope and complexity and many new requirements have been created in response to laws enacted by Congress, making compliance more difficult and uncertain. For example, on July 21, 2010, Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Protection Act. Our efforts to comply with the Dodd-Frank Act and other new regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. There are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of our controls. Regardless of how well designed and operated it is, a control system can provide only reasonable assurance that its objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. Failure of our control systems to prevent error or fraud could have a material adverse impact on our business. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business and harm our operating results. We rely on our network infrastructure and enterprise applications, and technology systems for our development, marketing, operational, support and sales activities. A disruption or failure of these systems in the event of a major earthquake, fire, telecommunications failure, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause system interruptions, delays in our product development and loss of critical data and could prevent us from fulfilling our customers’ orders. Our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, our data centers, and certain other critical business operations are located in California, near major earthquake faults. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our data centers or our critical business or information technology systems would severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our operating results would be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 