Item 1A. Risk Factors A wide range of factors could materially affect the Valassis’ future developments and performance, particularly the statements made in the “Business Outlook” section. Factors affecting our operations and future financial performance include the following: Risk Factors Relating to our Business Increased competition could reduce the demand for our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and business prospects Our Market Delivered products compete in the cooperative FSI business principally with News America Marketing FSI, a company owned by The News Corporation. We compete for business primarily on the basis of the following: • price; • category availability; • targeting ability; • ability to integrate with other products; 6 • program development consulting • customer services and sales relationships; and • lead times. In the past, new competitors have tried to establish themselves in the FSI market with the result of an increase in the number of FSI programs, which resulted in periods of intense price competition and higher costs due to a decrease in pages per FSI program. However, we believe that currently there are substantial barriers to entry for a new competitor to enter the FSI market due to what we believe are the monopolistic and anti-competitive practices of News America Marketing FSI and News America Marketing In-Store Services. Specifically, we believe News America Marketing FSI illegally ties its FSI sales to products in the in-store promotions market, a market that we believe News America Marketing In-Store Services has effectively monopolized. Our principal competitor in the cooperative FSI market, News America Marketing FSI, has been competing aggressively for FSI business. As a consequence, prices trended downward in 2004, offset by a modest increase in market share compared to 2003, and industry growth by a percentage in the mid-single digits. The combination of these factors has resulted in a slight increase in revenues and declining profitability for our FSI business. During the fourth quarter of 2005, we renegotiated a contract with a major client to extend pricing similar to what had been provided by our competitor. This new pricing will take effect in 2006 and we anticipate pricing to be down in 2006 compared to 2005. In addition, some of our competitors, particularly News America, have substantially greater financial resources than we do. It is possible that alternative media or changes in promotional strategies could make our products less attractive to our customers and could cause a loss of demand for our services and products. Our Market Delivered products also compete with several newspaper network groups in the ROP market. While entering the ROP business does not require a significant investment in machinery and equipment, it does require a significant investment in systems and people in order to compete in today’s environment. An increase in the number of ROP competitors could result in a loss of market share. Our Neighborhood Targeted segment competes against commercial printers and media placement agencies for solo specialized promotional programs for single advertisers. While both types of competitors have a history of competing on the basis of price to increase volume and improve economies of scale, commercial printers tend to be particularly aggressive during periods when they have overcapacity. In addition, we compete with Sunflower Marketing for polybag advertising and sampling. To the extent our competitors in these businesses decide to compete more aggressively on price due to excess capacity or for other reasons it could materially negatively effect our revenue and profit margins. Significant increases in the cost of paper (which we cannot control) could adversely affect our financial health Our paper prices have historically experienced significant fluctuations. We have a limited ability to protect ourselves from these fluctuations or to pass increased costs along to our customers. Significant increases in the cost of paper could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. To protect Valassis against the risk of price fluctuations, a significant portion of our paper requirements is purchased from three paper companies under long-term contracts. These contracts limit the amount of increases or decreases (to approximately 10% in any calendar year) of Valassis’ cost of paper purchased from these suppliers. Such cost can be adjusted quarterly. As of January 1, 2006, approximately 90% of our FSI paper requirements were purchased pursuant to certain long-term paper contracts which limit our exposure with respect to the price of paper during the term of those contracts. However, when such contracts expire we may not be able to replace such contracts with favorable terms or at all. Significant increases in our media rates could adversely affect our financial performance and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under these notes Currently, the largest cost component of our business is our media cost, the payments that we make to newspapers for insertion of promotional materials. At this time, we have certain long-term contracts with newspapers providing for these services. When these newspaper contracts expire, we may not be able to replace such contracts with favorable terms or at all. Consequently, an increase in media costs could adversely affect our profitability. 7 The uncertainty of current economic and political conditions make budgeting and forecasting difficult and may reduce sales promotion spending The future direction of the overall domestic and global economies could have a significant impact on our overall performance. The potential for future terrorist attacks, increased global conflicts and the escalation of existing conflicts has created worldwide uncertainties that may have a negative impact demand for our products. Because all components of our budgeting and forecasting, as well as that of our customers, are dependent upon estimates of growth in the markets we and our customers serve and demand for our and their products, the prevailing economic uncertainties may render estimates of future income and expenditures even more difficult than usual to make. We rely on a single customer for a significant portion of our revenues. Many of our customers, particularly in our Market Delivered Products business segment are packaged goods manufacturers. Our largest customer, Proctor & Gamble, “P&G” accounted for slightly more than 10% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005. In October 2005, P&G closed on its purchase of Gillette. Shortly thereafter, P&G requested that its contract with us be renegotiated to extend pricing similar to what our competitor was providing to Gillette which negatively affected the pricing we expected to have before such renegotiation took place. The loss of all or even a portion of the business attributed to this customer or any further negative pricing adjustment to our contract with P&G would have a material adverse impact on our company. These risk factors that may affect future performance and the accuracy of forward-looking statements is illustrative. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 8 