Item 1A. Risk Factors We describe our business risk factors below. The recent global recession and continued uncertainty in the global economy, and weakness in the semiconductor and electronics industries in particular, may harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The global economy has recently experienced a major recession, stock market volatility, tightened credit markets, concerns about both deflation and inflation, reduced demand for products, lower consumer confidence, reduced capital spending, liquidity concerns and business insolvencies. These declines, and uncertainty about future economic conditions, could continue to negatively impact our customers’ businesses, reducing demand for our products and adversely affecting our business. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of the global economic downturn or any subsequent recovery, so our future business and financial results are subject to considerable uncertainty, and our stock price is at risk of volatile change. In addition, the EDA industry has been adversely affected by many factors, including the global recession, ongoing efforts by semiconductor and electronics companies to reduce spending, uncertainty regarding long-term growth rates and underlying financial health of various economies around the world, excess EDA tool capacity and increased competition. These factors could, among other things, limit our ability to maintain or increase our sales or recognize revenue from committed contracts and in turn adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If general economic conditions, and particularly conditions in the semiconductor and electronics industries, do not improve, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed. In the event that downward fluctuations in the semiconductor or electronics industries or general economic conditions persist or worsen for any extended period of time, or fail to significantly improve, our revenues and financial results will be adversely affected. A substantial majority of our customers pay for licenses over a period of time, generating recurring revenue for us, generally over a three-year period. Under our business model, we generally expect more than 90% of our total revenue to be recurring revenue. Historically, short-term fluctuations in industry or general economic conditions or in orders generally do not immediately affect our financial results due to our business model. While the electronics, semiconductor and EDA industries have recently experienced severe weakness and uncertainty due to the downturn in the global economic recession, to date, our business model has substantially protected our financial results. Nevertheless, our business model and longer-term financial results are not immune from sustained economic downturns. The turmoil and uncertainty caused by recent economic conditions have caused some of our customers to postpone their decision-making, decrease their spending and/or delay their payments to us. Continued periods of decreased committed average annual revenue, additional customer bankruptcies, or consolidation among our customers, could adversely affect our year-over-year revenue growth and could further decrease our backlog. Accordingly, if economic conditions further deteriorate or fail to significantly improve for any extended period of time, our future revenues and financial results will be adversely affected. Conversely, in the event of future improvement in economic conditions for our customers, the positive impact on our revenues and financial results will be deferred due to our business model. Customer payment defaults or related issues could harm our operating results. The majority of our backlog consists of customer payment obligations not yet due that are attributable to software we have already delivered. A significant portion of revenue we recognize in any period comes from backlog and is dependent upon our receipt of cash from customers. Although customer payment obligations are not cancelable, we will not achieve expected revenue and cash flow if customers default, declare bankruptcy, or 10 Table of Contents otherwise fail to pay amounts owed – as occurs from time to time in an economic downturn. Moreover, existing customers may seek to renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments due to adverse changes in their own businesses. Our customers’ financial condition and in turn their ability or willingness to fulfill their contractual and financial obligations could be adversely affected by current economic conditions. If payment defaults by our customers significantly increase or we experience significant reductions in existing contractual commitments, our operating results would be harmed. If we do not successfully compete in the EDA industry our business and financial condition will be harmed. We compete against EDA vendors that offer a variety of products and services, primarily Cadence Design Systems, Inc., Mentor Graphics Corporation and Magma Design Automation, Inc. We also compete with other EDA vendors, including frequent new entrants to the marketplace, that offer products focused on one or more discrete phases of the IC design process, as well as with our customers’ internally developed design tools and capabilities. We compete principally on the basis of technology leadership, product quality and features (including ease-of-use), license terms, post-contract customer support, interoperability with our products and other vendors’ products, and price and payment terms. Specifically, we believe the following competitive factors affect our success: • Technology in the EDA industry evolves rapidly, so in order to be successful we must maintain technology leadership. Accordingly, we must anticipate and lead critical development cycles, innovate rapidly and efficiently, improve our existing products, and successfully develop or acquire new products. • We believe that in order to be successful we must offer products that provide both a high level of integration into a comprehensive platform and a high level of individual product performance. We have invested significant resources into the development of our Galaxy Design Platform, integration of our Discovery Verification Platform and enhancement of our SystemVerilog and other advanced features and development of our Manufacturing Solutions and our IP and systems portfolios. Customers may not find these tool and IP configurations more attractive than our competitors’ offerings and our efforts to balance the interests of integration versus individual product performance may not be successful. • Many EDA vendors offer price discounts, which could be increasingly significant as price continues to be a competitive consideration for our customers. If we do not match a competitor’s pricing for a particular solution, or otherwise enhance the value of our offering, we may lose business, which would result in lost revenue and could harm our operating results, particularly if the customer chooses to consolidate a substantial portion of their EDA purchases with the competitor. • In order to compete effectively, we believe we need to enhance the value of our offering by providing additional rights such as multiple copies of the tools, post-contract customer support, expanded license usage related to duration, location and quantity, contractor and site access, future purchase rights and the ability to purchase pools of technology. If we do not match or are unable to match a competitor’s offering, we may lose business, which would result in lost revenue and could harm our operating results. • Payment terms are aggressively negotiated by our customers and affect our competitive position. Payment terms on time-based licenses have generally lengthened over time. Longer payment terms could continue in the future, which could negatively affect our future revenue and operating cash flow. • The EDA industry is subject to continual consolidation. We and our competitors have historically acquired businesses and technologies to complement and expand our respective product offerings. If any of our competitors consolidate or acquire businesses and technologies which we do not offer, they may be able to exert even greater competitive pressure by offering a more complete or larger technology portfolio, a larger support and service capability, or lower prices. • Despite the complexity of the EDA market, entry and expansion into the EDA market by new and existing companies can and does occur, and could make it more difficult to compete successfully. 11 Table of Contents In addition, new competitive factors may emerge from time to time. If we fail to successfully compete as described above or fail to address new competitive forces, our business will be harmed. Lack of growth in new IC design starts, industry consolidation and other potentially long-term trends may adversely affect the EDA industry, including demand for our products and services. The increasing complexities of SoCs and ICs, and customers’ concerns about managing costs and risks, have produced the following long-term and potentially negative trends in our industry: • The number of IC design starts has decreased and may continue to decline. New IC design starts are one of the key drivers of demand for EDA software. • A number of mergers in the semiconductor and electronics industries have occurred and more are likely. Mergers can reduce the aggregate level of purchases of EDA software and services, and in some cases, increase customers’ bargaining power in negotiations with their suppliers, including Synopsys. • Factors such as increased globalization and the recent global recession have made cost controls among our customers more permanent, adversely impacting our customers’ EDA spending. • Industry changes, plus the cost and complexity of IC design, may be leading some companies in these industries to limit their design activity in general, to focus only on one discrete phase of the design process while outsourcing other aspects of the design to companies using our competitors’ products. These trends, if sustained, could harm the EDA industry, including the demand for our products and services, which in turn would harm our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in accounting principles and guidance, or their interpretation, could result in unfavorable accounting charges or effects, including changes to our previously-filed financial statements, which could cause our stock price to decline. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles and guidance. A change in these principles or guidance, or in their interpretations, can have a significant effect on our reported results and may retroactively affect previously reported results. We have received a Revenue Agent’s Report from the Internal Revenue Service claiming a significant increase in our U.S. taxable income. An adverse outcome could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In July 2008, we received a Revenue Agent’s Report in which the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) proposed an adjustment that would result in an aggregate tax deficiency for fiscal 2002 through 2004 of approximately $236.2 million, $130.5 million of which would be a reduction of certain tax credits that would otherwise be available either as refund claims or to offset taxes due in future periods. In August 2008, we timely filed a protest to the proposed deficiency with the IRS. In the second quarter of fiscal 2009, we reached a tentative settlement with the Examination Division of the IRS that would resolve this matter. The settlement is subject to further review and approval within the federal government, including the Joint Committee on Taxation of the U.S. Congress, which could take several more months. Final resolution of this matter could take considerable time and may not be finally approved by the government, in which case, while the Company believes it is still adequately provided for regarding this matter, there is still a possibility that an adverse outcome of this matter could result in significant tax expense and harm our results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents Unfavorable tax law changes, an unfavorable government review of our tax returns or changes in our geographical earnings mix or forecasts of foreign source income could adversely affect our effective tax rate and our operating results. Our operations are subject to income and transaction taxes in the United States and in multiple foreign jurisdictions. A change in the tax law in the jurisdictions in which we do business, including an increase in tax rates or an adverse change in the treatment of an item of income or expense, could result in a material increase in our tax expense. Currently, a substantial portion of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets, including employees, are located outside the United States. United States income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings for certain non-United States subsidiaries to the extent such earnings are considered to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. In May 2009, the President of the United States and the U.S. Treasury Department proposed changing certain of the U.S. tax rules for U.S. corporations doing business outside the United States. Specific legislation has not yet been proposed or enacted, but it is possible that such proposed changes would lessen the benefit of deductions and credits related to income earned outside of the United States and result in the loss of deferral of income tax on earnings of certain of our foreign affiliates, all of which could materially increase our effective tax rate and our cash payments of income taxes. Our tax filings are subject to review or audit by the IRS and state, local and foreign taxing authorities. We exercise judgment in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and, in the ordinary course of our business, there may be transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The IRS examinations of our federal tax returns for the years 2000-2001 and 2002-2004 resulted in significant proposed adjustments. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, we can provide no assurance that any final determination in an audit will not be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. An assessment of additional taxes as a result of an audit could adversely affect our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made. We have operations both in the United States and in multiple foreign jurisdictions with a wide range of statutory tax rates. Certain foreign operations are subject to temporary favorable foreign tax rates. Therefore, any changes in our geographical earning mix in various tax jurisdictions, including those resulting from transfer pricing adjustments and expiration of or amendments to foreign tax rulings, could materially increase our effective tax rate. Furthermore, we maintain deferred tax assets related to federal foreign tax credits and our ability to use these credits is dependent upon having sufficient future foreign source income in the United States. Changes in our forecasts of such future foreign source income could result in an adjustment to the deferred tax asset and a related charge to earnings which could materially affect our financial results. Our revenue and earnings fluctuate and if our financial results fail to meet stockholder expectations our stock price could decline. Many factors may cause our revenue and earnings to fluctuate, including changing customer demand, license mix, the timing of revenue recognition on products and services sold, acquisition expenses, impairment charges and restructuring charges. Accordingly, stockholders should not view our historical results as necessarily indicative of our future performance. From time to time, we provide projections describing our expected future financial performance. In addition, financial analysts publish their own expectations of our future financial performance. Because our quarterly revenue and our operating results fluctuate, future financial performance is difficult to predict. Downward adjustments of our targets or the failure to meet our targets or the expectations of research analysts could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The factors that could affect our revenue and earnings in a particular quarter include, but are not limited to: • The market for EDA products is dynamic and depends on a number of factors, including consumer demand for our customers’ products, customer budgets for research and development and EDA spending, pricing, our competitors’ product offerings and customer design starts. It is difficult to 13 Table of Contents predict the effect of these and other factors on our customers’ demand for our products on a medium or long term basis, and it is particularly difficult to predict demand after a severe economic recession that has affected businesses worldwide. As a result, actual future customer purchases could differ materially from our forecasts which, in turn, could cause our actual revenue to be materially different than our publicly disclosed targets. • We base our operating expenses in part on our expectations for future revenue and generally must commit to expense levels in advance of revenue being recognized. Since only a small portion of our expenses varies with revenue, any revenue shortfall typically causes a direct reduction in net income. • Our publicly-disclosed targets for revenue and earnings assume a particular level of orders and mix between upfront and time-based license revenue. The amount of orders received and changes in the mix—due to factors such as the level of overall license orders, customer demand, customer payment terms and ship dates—could result in lower revenue and harm our operating results. For example, if we ship more licenses generating upfront revenue than expected during any given fiscal period, our revenue and earnings for that period could be above our targets even if orders are below target; conversely, if we ship fewer licenses generating upfront revenue than expected, our revenue and earnings for that period could fall below our targets even if orders meet or even exceed our target. Similarly, if we receive a lower-than-expected level of license orders generating time-based revenue during a given period, our revenue in future periods could be negatively affected. • We may implement cost control measures in an effort to meet our publicly-disclosed financial targets, and there can be no assurance that any such measures will achieve the anticipated cost savings, or will do so without harming our business. • We often amend our customer contracts to extend the term or add new products. Although these amendments can produce larger or longer-term payment streams from customers, they can also reduce the revenue being recognized per year even if the total value of the extended contract is larger. • Some of our license agreements provide customers the right to re-mix a portion of the software initially subject to the license for other specified Synopsys products. While this practice helps assure the customer’s access to the complete design flow needed to manufacture its product, use of these arrangements could result in reduced revenue compared to licensing the individual tools separately. • In the past, we have regularly received a significant portion of our orders for a given quarter in the last one or two weeks of the quarter. The delay of one or more orders, particularly orders generating upfront revenue, could cause us to have lower revenue and/or earnings for that quarter. • A large portion of our revenue is derived from a relatively small number of large customers. While our agreements with such customers are binding multi-year agreements, if we were to lose these customers or if they did not renew their agreements with us, over time our financial results could be adversely affected. • We make significant judgments relating to revenue recognition, specifically determining the existence of proper documentation, establishing that the fee is fixed or determinable, verifying delivery of our products and services and assessing the creditworthiness of our customers. While we believe our judgments in these areas are reasonable, there can be no assurance that such judgments will not be challenged in the future. In such an event, we could be required to reduce the amount of revenue we have recognized in prior periods, which would have an adverse impact on our reported results of operations for those periods. • Our customers spend a great deal of time reviewing and testing our products, either alone or against competing products, before making a purchase decision. Those customer evaluation and purchase cycles may not match our fiscal quarters. In addition, customers may delay purchases due to budgetary constraints or budget cycles. 14 Table of Contents • The sales cycle for our products is lengthy. The purchase of our products generally involves a significant commitment of capital and other resources by a customer. This commitment often requires significant technical review, assessment of competitive products and approval at a number of management levels within a customer’s organization. While our customers are evaluating our products and services, we may incur substantial sales and marketing expenses and spend significant management effort to complete these sales. Any delay in completing sales in a particular quarter or the failure to complete a sale after expending resources during the sales cycle could cause our operating results to suffer. • We rely on third party subcontractors to manufacture our hardware products. Our reliance on third parties subjects us to risks such as reduced control over delivery schedules and quality, a potential lack of adequate capacity during periods when demand is high and potential increases in product costs due to factors outside our control such as capacity shortages, pricing changes and the third parties’ financial viability. Our outsourcing model could lead to delays in product deliveries, lost sales and increased costs which could harm our relationships with our customers resulting in lower operating results. The failure to meet the semiconductor industry’s demands for advancing EDA technology and continued cost reductions may harm our financial results. SoC and IC functionality continues to increase while feature widths decrease, substantially increasing the complexity, cost and risk of IC design and manufacturing. To address greater complexity, semiconductor designers and manufacturers demand continuous innovation from EDA suppliers. At the same time, as a general business trend, we believe some customers and potential customers are seeking to buy more products from fewer suppliers and at reduced overall prices in an effort to reduce overall cost and risk. In order to succeed in this environment, we must successfully meet our customers’ technology requirements and increase the value of our products, while also striving to reduce their overall costs and our own operating costs. If we fail to successfully manage these conflicting demands our financial condition and results of operations will be harmed. We may have to invest more resources in research and development than anticipated, which could increase our operating expenses and negatively affect our operating results. If new competitors, technological advances by existing competitors, our entry into new markets, or other competitive factors require us to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in our research and development efforts, our operating expenses would increase. If we are required to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in research and development efforts without a corresponding increase in revenue, our operating results could decline. Research and development expenses are likely to fluctuate from time to time to the extent we make periodic incremental investments in research and development and these investments may be independent of our level of revenue which could negatively impact our financial results. In order to remain competitive, we anticipate that we will continue to devote substantial resources to research and development. We may not be able to acquire businesses or technology and we may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of the business acquisitions or strategic investments we complete, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products. We have acquired a number of companies or their assets in the past and expect to make additional acquisitions of businesses or technology in the future. We may not find suitable acquisition targets or we may not be able to consummate desired acquisitions due to unfavorable credit markets or other risks, which could harm our operating results. We have acquired a number of companies and technologies in recent years. In addition to direct costs, acquisitions pose a number of risks, including: • Potential negative impact on our earnings per share; • Failure of acquired products to achieve projected sales; • Problems in integrating the acquired products with our products; 15 Table of Contents • Difficulties in retaining key employees and integrating them into Synopsys; • Failure to realize expected synergies or cost savings; • Regulatory delays; • Drain on management time for acquisition-related activities; • Assumption of unknown liabilities, including tax, and unanticipated costs; • Diversion of resources and unanticipated expenses resulting from litigation arising from potential or actual business acquisitions or investments; • Adverse effects on customer buying patterns or relationships; and • Negative impact on our earnings resulting from the application of the new Accounting Standard Codification (ASC) 805, Business Combinations, which will apply to our acquisitions beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal 2010. While we review proposed acquisitions carefully and strive to negotiate terms that are favorable to us, an acquisition may not positively affect our future performance. If we later determine we cannot use or sell an acquired product or technology, we will be required to write down intangible assets associated with the product or technology which would harm our operating results. Conditions of foreign economies, foreign exchange rate fluctuations and the increasingly global nature of our operations could adversely affect our performance. We derive approximately half of our revenue from sales outside the United States, and we expect our orders and revenue to continue to depend on sales to customers outside the United States. Foreign sales are vulnerable to regional and worldwide economic, political and health conditions, including the effects of international political conflict, hostilities and natural disasters. Further, any deterioration of foreign economies or foreign currency exchange rates would adversely affect our performance by reducing the amount of revenue derived from outside the United States. Our operating results are also affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Our results of operations can be adversely affected when the U.S. dollar weakens relative to other currencies, as a result of the translation of expenses of our foreign operations denominated in foreign currencies into the U.S. dollar. Exchange rates are subject to significant and rapid fluctuations, and therefore we cannot predict the prospective impact of exchange rate fluctuations on our business, results of operations and financial condition. While we hedge most foreign currency exposures of our business, we are unable to hedge all of our currency exposures, and our hedging activities may not completely mitigate our foreign currency risks. In addition, we have expanded our non-U.S. operations significantly in the past several years. While the increased international presence of our business creates the potential for cost reductions and higher international sales, this strategy also requires us to recruit and retain qualified technical and managerial employees, manage multiple, remote locations performing complex software development projects and ensure intellectual property protection outside of the United States. If we fail to effectively manage our global operations our business and results of operations will be harmed. Our international operations and sales subject us to a number of special risks, including: • international economic and political conditions, such as political tensions between countries in which we do business; • unexpected changes in legislative or regulatory requirements; • difficulties in complying with foreign laws and regulatory requirements; 16 Table of Contents • differing legal standards with respect to protection of intellectual property and employment practices, or other foreign laws and regulatory requirements; • difficulties in adapting to cultural differences in the conduct of business; • inadequate local infrastructure that could result in business disruptions; • export or import restrictions, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions; • financial risks such as longer payment cycles, difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • additional taxes and penalties; and • other factors beyond our control such as terrorism, civil unrest, war and infectious diseases. Our investment portfolio may become impaired. Our cash equivalent and short-term investment portfolio as of October 31, 2009 consisted of investment grade municipal bonds, tax-exempt money market mutual funds and taxable money market mutual funds. Recent economic conditions have increased the risk of credit downgrades in financial markets and we may suffer losses if our bond holdings are downgraded. However, we follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor, manage and limit our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. The policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer. All of our cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as “available-for-sale” under ASC 320, Investments—Debt and Equity Securities. Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate debt securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. We may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. However, because any debt securities we hold are classified as “available-for-sale,” no gains or losses are realized in our consolidated statements of income due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or unless declines in value are determined to be other-than-temporary. These securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of stockholders’ equity, net of tax. During the fiscal year ended October 31, 2009, we had no impairment charge associated with our short-term investment portfolio. However, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and our investment portfolio may suffer other than temporary impairments in future periods. Our banking partners may become insolvent or otherwise default on their obligations. We rely on several large financial institutions to act as counterparties under our foreign currency forward contracts, provide credit under our revolving credit facility and provide banking transaction and deposit services worldwide. Should any of our banking partners declare bankruptcy or otherwise default on their obligations, it could have a material impact on our financial results and reduce our credit availability. From time to time we are subject to claims that our products infringe on third party intellectual property rights. Under our customer agreements and other license agreements, we agree in many cases to indemnify our customers if our products infringe a third party’s intellectual property rights. As a result, we are from time to time subject to claims that our products infringe on these third party rights. We are currently defending some of 17 Table of Contents our customers against claims that their use of one of our products infringes on a patent held by a Japanese electronics company. We believe this claim is without merit and will continue to vigorously defend against it. These types of claims can, however, result in costly and time-consuming litigation, require us to enter into royalty arrangements, subject us to damages or injunctions restricting our sale of products, invalidate a patent or family of patents, require us to refund license fees to our customers or to forgo future payments or require us to redesign certain of our products, any one of which could harm our business and operating results. If we fail to protect our proprietary technology our business will be harmed. Our success depends in part upon protecting our proprietary technology. We rely on agreements with customers, employees and others and on intellectual property laws worldwide to protect our proprietary technology. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach and our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. Moreover, some foreign countries do not currently provide effective legal protection for intellectual property and our ability to prevent the unauthorized use of our products in those countries is therefore limited. We aggressively pursue action against companies or individuals that wrongfully appropriate or use our products and technologies. We engaged in anti-piracy efforts against certain companies located in China; but these actions may not be successful. We may need to commence litigation or other legal proceedings in order to: • assert claims of infringement of our intellectual property; • protect our trade secrets or know-how; or • determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the propriety rights of others. If we do not obtain or maintain appropriate patent, copyright or trade secret protection, for any reason, or cannot fully defend our intellectual property rights in some jurisdictions, our business and operating results would be harmed. In addition, intellectual property litigation is lengthy, expensive and uncertain and legal fees related to such litigation will increase our operating expenses and may reduce our net income. Our business is subject to evolving corporate governance and public disclosure regulations that have increased both our compliance costs and the risk of noncompliance, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. We are subject to rules and regulations promulgated by a number of governmental and self-regulated organizations, including the SEC, NASDAQ and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. Many of these regulations continue to evolve, making compliance more difficult and uncertain. In addition, our efforts to comply with these new regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations require us to include a management assessment of our internal control over financial reporting and requires our auditors to render an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports. This effort has required, and will continue to require in the future, the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. Any failure to complete a favorable assessment and obtain an unqualified opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm could cause our stock price to decline. There are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of our controls. We do not expect that our disclosure controls or internal control system will prevent all error and all fraud. Regardless of how well designed and operated it is, a control system can provide only reasonable assurance that its objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource 18 Table of Contents constraints and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. Failure of our control systems to prevent error or fraud could materially adversely impact us. If we fail to timely recruit and retain key employees our business may be harmed. To be successful, we must attract and retain key technical, sales and managerial employees, including those who join Synopsys in connection with acquisitions. There are a limited number of qualified EDA and IC design engineers, and competition for these individuals is intense. Our employees are often recruited aggressively by our competitors and our customers. Any failure to recruit and retain key technical, sales and managerial employees would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We issue stock options and restricted stock units and maintain employee stock purchase plans as a key component of our overall compensation. We face pressure from stockholders, who must approve any increases in our equity pool, to limit the use of such equity based compensation and its dilutive effect on stockholders. In addition, we are required under U.S. GAAP to recognize compensation expense in our results from operations for employee share-based equity compensation under our equity grants and our employee stock purchase plan which has increased the pressure to limit share-based compensation. These factors may make it more difficult for us to grant attractive share-based packages in the future, which could adversely impact and limit our ability to attract and retain key employees. We may be subject to litigation proceedings that could harm our business. We may be subject to legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, competition, and other issues on a global basis. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or, in cases for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting us from manufacturing or selling one or more products. If we were to receive an unfavorable ruling in a matter, our business and results of operations could be materially harmed. Product errors or defects could expose us to liability and harm our reputation and we could lose market share. Despite extensive testing prior to releasing our products, software products frequently contain errors or defects, especially when first introduced, when new versions are released or when integrated with technologies developed by acquired companies. Product errors could affect the performance or interoperability of our products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products and could adversely affect market acceptance or perception of our products. In addition, allegations of IC manufacturability issues resulting from use of our IP products could, even if untrue, adversely affect our reputation and our customers’ willingness to license IP products from us. Any such errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products or allegations of unsatisfactory performance could cause us to lose customers, increase our service costs, subject us to liability for damages and divert our resources from other tasks, any one of which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business and harm our operating results. We rely on our network infrastructure and enterprise applications, and technology systems for our development, marketing, operational, support and sales activities. A disruption or failure of these systems in the event of a major earthquake, fire, telecommunications failure, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause system interruptions, delays in our product development and loss of critical data and could prevent us from fulfilling our customers’ orders. Our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, our data centers, and certain other critical business operations are located in California, near major earthquake faults. We believe we have developed sufficient disaster recovery plans and backup systems 19 Table of Contents to reduce the potentially adverse effect of such events, but a catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our data centers or our critical business or information technology systems would severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our operating results would be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 