Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report, in evaluating the Company and our common stock. If any of the risks described below actually occurs, our business, financial results, financial condition and stock price could be materially adversely affected. Risk Factor Related to the Current Market Environment Recent market and economic developments may materially and adversely affect our business, revenues, earnings, sales, assets under management, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Financial markets have experienced unprecedented credit and liquidity issues as well as volatility and declines in the equity markets. Credit markets have suffered significantly, with many lenders and institutional investors reducing, and in some cases, ceasing to provide funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. Additionally, concerns over increasing unemployment, fluctuating inflation and energy costs have contributed to diminished expectations for the economy and the financial markets going forward. These factors, combined with declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and fears of a deep and prolonged recession. As a result, there has been a severe impact on the global financial markets and economies. This economic environment has had a direct impact on the actions of both retail and institutional investors. The continued erosion of the equity and fixed income markets has materially and adversely impacted our assets under management, which has resulted in lower fee revenues. Although it is not possible to predict how long this economic downturn will continue, it has, and will continue to have, a direct adverse impact on our financial results. Asset managers, including the Company, have also experienced decreased investment inflows and an increase in redemptions of certain products, which creates further pressure on our net income and liquidity. It is difficult to predict which aspects of our products and/or business will be adversely affected. However, the resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial and capital markets and reduced business activity materially and adversely affects us. Recent market and economic developments have affected, or have the potential to affect, us adversely by: • reducing the value of the assets we manage, which has resulted in, and will continue to result in, lower fee revenues; • impacting the returns and attractiveness of our investment products, which has caused and may continue to cause existing clients to withdraw assets and diminish our ability to attract assets from new and existing clients, which would result in lower sales and fee revenues; • causing a change in the mix of our assets under management to lower margin products; • exacerbating the conditions which caused us to recognize impairments of goodwill and intangible assets during the year ended December 31, 2008, which may lead to future impairments; • reducing or eliminating our ability to obtain refinancing for our existing $20.0 million loan and for our future cash requirements; • increasing the risk of not complying with debt covenants; • increasing competition from competitors that may be larger than we are and have more resources than we do; • affecting the access to, and reliability of, our intermediary distribution channels and service providers, which could adversely affect our sales, redemptions and business operations; 14 Table of Contents • causing regulators to change laws and regulations that affect us, which may result in greater compliance costs and restrictions on our ability to do business; • encouraging litigation, arbitration and regulatory action in response to the increased frequency and magnitude of investment losses, which may result in unfavorable judgments, awards and settlements, regulatory fines and an increase in our related legal expenses; • increasing the difficulty of performing administrative functions such as determining the value of assets we manage, which may affect our service levels and our ability to retain existing clients or attract new clients; • damaging our reputation indirectly by association with the industries most seriously affected by market and economic developments, or directly due to a decline in investment performance or service levels, which may affect our ability to retain existing clients or attract new clients; • damaging our reputation due to the inability of investors to redeem auction rate preferred securities due to the recent failures of such remarketing auctions caused by illiquidity in the auction rate preferred market, which previously provided investment liquidity to certain of our closed-end funds; and • damaging our reputation or creating pressure to contribute capital to certain of our money market funds should these funds become at risk of falling below a $1.00 net asset value, referred to as “breaking the buck,” due to illiquidity in the money markets or credit-related impairments of their holdings. Any of these negative effects may materially and adversely affect our business, revenues, earnings, sales, assets under management, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business There are significant risks associated with our operation as a stand-alone public company. Prior to December 31, 2008, we were an indirect majority-owned subsidiary of PNX. Following our December 31, 2008 spin-off from PNX, PNX no longer has any ownership interest in our Company. Historically, as part of the PNX affiliated group, we had access to short-term and long-term credit, and services provided to affiliates within the PNX affiliated group. As a stand-alone public company, we have had to establish all of our own services, systems and controls and have been seeking to establish separate credit arrangements. While we have established our own separate services, operations and controls, as a stand-alone company we may encounter significant and unexpected difficulties and issues and may incur significant additional costs which we had neither expected nor planned. Prior to our spin-off, we were part of the internal control environment of PNX, with internal controls over financial reporting established as part of the overall PNX internal control environment. As a stand-alone public company, we are in the process of assessing, modifying and implementing our own internal control environment. In connection with the audits of our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008, both we and our independent registered accounting firm identified significant deficiencies and material weaknesses with respect to our internal controls over financial reporting. See Item 9A Controls and Procedures for more information. Pursuant to the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, we will be required to separately report on our internal control over financial reporting commencing with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. There can be no assurance that as part of that process, or otherwise, we may not identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as a separate, independent company, for which we would need to implement new or improved controls and remediation. We cannot provide assurance that these controls, procedures, policies and systems will adequately address and effectively mitigate all risks inherent in our business and operations. 15 Table of Contents Our historical consolidated financial information is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as a stand-alone company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. Our historical consolidated financial information included in this Annual Report does not reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows we would have achieved as a stand-alone company during the periods presented or those we will achieve in the future. This is primarily a result of the following: • our historical financial information reflects the assets and business of Goodwin; however, the Goodwin assets and business are no longer part of the Company following the distribution; • our historical financial results reflect allocations of corporate expenses from PNX, which may be different than the comparable expenses we would have actually incurred in prior years or will incur as a stand-alone company; • our cost of debt and our capitalization are different from that reflected in our historical consolidated financial statements; and • significant changes have occurred and will continue to occur in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of our separation from PNX, including additional costs for us to establish our new operating infrastructure. Such costs include, but are not limited to, (i) additional employees required to perform tasks previously handled by PNX, (ii) a new board of directors for our company, (iii) standalone insurance coverage, (iv) standalone audit, legal and other professional services and costs and (v) costs associated with standalone SEC reporting and compliance. Our separation from PNX could potentially increase our U.S. federal income tax expense by, among other things, reducing or eliminating our net operating loss carryforwards and other income tax benefits generated by our business over its history. Due to the separation, we will no longer file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return with PNX for years beginning after December 31, 2008. As a result, the Company and PNX will no longer be able to offset one another’s net operating and capital gains with net operating and capital losses to the extent otherwise available. In connection with the spin-off, the Company entered into a tax separation agreement with PNX on December 18, 2008, as amended on April 8, 2009. PNX has historically filed consolidated federal income tax returns, which included Virtus as a wholly owned subsidiary. At December 31, 2008, excluding the impact of the valuation allowance, deferred tax assets of $112.5 million are recorded in the Company’s financial statements, attributable primarily to the tax basis in excess of financial reporting basis in certain Company intangibles that will be retained by the Company in connection with the terms of the tax separation agreement, as amended. The final election to allocate federal income tax attributes is expected to be made by PNX upon the filing of its consolidated federal income tax return for the year ended December 31, 2008, which is due to be filed on or before September 15, 2009. The tax separation agreement, as amended, provides that PNX will make specific elections and waivers intended to preserve the Company’s tax basis in intangible assets. In the event that some or all of the tax attributes the Company expects to retain are ultimately not available to the Company, it would reduce or eliminate a portion of these deferred tax assets. Poor investment performance of our products could adversely affect our assets under management, sales, revenues and earnings. The securities markets can be volatile and have recently experienced periods of substantial declines. There are several ways in which market declines and volatility have affected, and have the potential to affect, us negatively, including: • limiting our fee revenues by reducing the value of the assets we manage; • decreasing sales of our investment products; • causing existing clients to withdraw assets from our managed investment products, which would result in lower fee revenues; and • increasing the risk of litigation, claims and regulatory action. 16 Table of Contents Net flows related to our asset management strategies can also be affected by investment performance relative to other asset management companies. Our asset management strategies are rated or ranked by independent third parties and individual distribution partners, and many industry periodicals and services provide assessments of the relative performance of our strategies. These assessments often affect the investment decisions of customers. If the relative performance or assessments of our strategies decline materially, the assets under management related to these strategies may decrease as customers select strategies with better performance. Future periods of poor securities markets or relative performance would have an adverse effect on our assets under management, sales, revenues, the carrying value of our goodwill or intangible assets, and earnings. We must satisfy financial covenants under our existing or any future financing arrangements. In connection with the spin-off, the Company entered into a new secured loan agreement with Phoenix Life Insurance Company (“Phoenix Life”), as lender and the Company as borrower (the “Phoenix Loan Agreement”). Under the Phoenix Loan Agreement, the Company must maintain certain financial covenants. A summary of these financial covenants is included in this report under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The terms of this loan required the Company to maintain a minimum net worth of $135.0 million. At December 31, 2008, we would not have been in compliance with this covenant as a result of our $127.1 million fourth quarter pre-tax non-cash impairment charge related to goodwill and intangible assets recorded on December 31, 2008, the date of our spin-off transaction. On March 31, 2009, the Company and PNX amended the loan agreement to decrease the minimum net worth covenant from $135.0 million to $50.0 million, effective as of December 31, 2008. There can be no assurance that at all times in the future we will satisfy all such covenants or obtain any required waiver or amendment, in which event the loan could become immediately due. In addition, if the Company enters into a new financing arrangement, it will likely have debt covenants. If the Company was not able to maintain compliance with such covenants, the Company could be subject to accelerated payment of the debt. We may be unable to refinance our existing loan agreement or obtain other necessary financing for our other future cash needs. Global credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil, and these events have adversely impacted the availability and cost of credit. The Company has been seeking to obtain financing to retire the remainder of its secured debt obligation to Phoenix Life, and for other future cash needs. Potential types of financing arrangements could include secured or unsecured credit facilities, lines of credit, or other bank financing arrangements. Given the continued weakness in the credit markets, and our limited operating history as a stand-alone independent company, there can be no assurance that we will obtain such financing on satisfactory terms, or on terms as favorable as those historically available from PNX. In the event we are unable to obtain such new or replacement financing, we would rely upon our existing working capital and our cash flows from operations to satisfy our ongoing cash needs for our operations, including our obligations under the outstanding Phoenix Life loan and our payment of preferred stock dividends. There can be no assurance that such existing and future cash resources will be sufficient at all times for our operations and if not sufficient at any time, we may be required to reduce our costs, curtail certain of our operations or consider equity financing or other strategic initiatives. Assuming we obtain new or replacement financing, we would expect that the financing arrangement would include significant financial and other covenants. The existing difficult economic environment, which we expect to continue and which could deteriorate further, is expected to continue to impact our business and financial results. As a result, there can be no assurance that the Company would at all times satisfy all financial and other covenants under any new or replacement financing. 17 Table of Contents Any decrease in revenues would likely impact our margins due to our non-variable expenses. A decline in revenues due to decreases in value of our assets under management or an adverse change in the composition of our assets under management may also disproportionately impact our operating margins since certain of our overhead and other costs are not variable and would take a period of time to reduce relative to any decrease in revenues. Our business operations, investment returns and profitability could be adversely impacted by inadequate performance of third-party relationships. We are dependent on certain third-party relationships to maintain essential business operations. These services include, but are not limited to, information technology infrastructure, application systems support, mutual fund and investment accounting services, transfer agent and cash management services, custodial services, records storage management, backup tape management, security pricing services, payroll, legal and employee benefit programs. In addition, we maintain contractual relationships with certain investment management firms to sub-advise some of our portfolios. We periodically negotiate provisions and renewals of these relationships and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to such third parties or us. An interruption in our continuing relationship with certain of these third parties or any material delay or inability to deliver essential and any other contracted services could materially affect our business operations and potentially adversely affect our profitability. Clients can withdraw assets from our management for a variety of reasons, which could lead to a decrease in our revenues and earnings. Generally, our clients can terminate their relationships with us or our distribution partners at will or on relatively short notice. They can also reduce the aggregate amount of assets we manage for them or shift their investments to lower fee products that we manage for various reasons, including investment performance, changes in investment preferences, changes in reputation in the marketplace, changes in client management or ownership, loss of key investment management personnel and financial market performance. In declining markets, the pace of mutual fund redemptions and withdrawals of assets from other accounts could accelerate. Poor performance relative to other asset management firms may result in decreased purchases of fund shares, increased redemptions of fund shares, and the loss of institutional or individual accounts. A reduction in the assets we manage, and the associated decrease in revenues and earnings, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our separation from PNX could adversely affect our business and profitability due to the loss of PNX’s brand and reputation. As a majority-owned subsidiary of PNX, we marketed certain of our products and services using the “Phoenix” brand name and logo. While prior to the distribution we had already begun to market and build awareness of our new name and brand, our name change to Virtus could potentially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers and their investments, which, if it were to occur, could result in asset outflows or reduced sales of our mutual funds and other investment products. Further, developing broad name recognition can be expected to take significant time and effort. As the spin-off occurred at the end of 2008, we cannot as yet predict the longer-term effect that our separation from PNX will have on our business, customers, sub-advisors, distribution partners or employees. As with all asset management businesses, we are subject to reputational risk. As with other asset management firms, our reputation is an important asset to us and any potential issues, events or other matters which might negatively impact our reputation or perception among our customers could adversely affect our assets under management and financial results. The unprecedented volatility in the capital 18 Table of Contents and financial markets over the past twelve months, which has resulted in the substantial decline in asset values, impacts the asset management industry as a whole as well as customer perceptions. Further, any issues specific to our Company, such as any noncompliance with any of the legal and regulatory requirements to which our business is subject, or any customer dissatisfaction or claim, could also potentially impact our reputation among customers, which may adversely impact our assets under management and financial results. The agreements with PNX may involve, or may appear to involve, conflicts of interest and may not have the same terms as arms length agreements. Because the spin-off involved the separation of PNX’s existing businesses into two independent companies, we entered into certain agreements with PNX to provide a framework for our initial relationship with PNX following the spin-off. These agreements were established by PNX while we were still an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of PNX. Accordingly, prior to the spin-off, our officers were employees or officers of PNX or its subsidiaries and, as such, had an obligation to serve the interests of PNX and its subsidiaries. As a result, the agreements with PNX were under the control of PNX and may not be the same agreements entered into on an arm’s length basis. In addition, we and PNX have mutual rights and obligations related to these and other agreements entered into prior to or in connection with our spin-off. In the event for any reason PNX is unable or unwilling to meet its obligations under these agreements, our business, financial position or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We might be unable to attract or retain employees who are integral to our business. The success of our business is dependent to a large extent on our ability to attract and retain key employees. Competition in the job market for professionals such as our senior executives, heads of our various business units, our portfolio managers, securities analysts and sales personnel is generally intense. Most of our employees are not subject to employment contracts or non-compete agreements. Any inability to retain our key employees, or to attract and retain additional qualified employees, could have a negative impact on our business. In addition, because the success of our business depends upon our key personnel, our ability to prepare in advance for and to respond to any unexpected management changes will be important for the success of our business. Any inability or delay by us in replacing any of our key management positions that may become vacant could negatively impact our management team and future business operations and results. The independent trustees or directors of our mutual funds and closed-end funds, intermediary program sponsors, managed account clients and institutional asset management clients could terminate their contracts with us. This would reduce our revenues and earnings. Each of the mutual funds and closed-end funds for which we act as investment advisor or sub-advisor is registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “Investment Company Act”) and is governed by a board of trustees or board of directors. Each fund’s contract is renewed annually by the fund’s board. Either the board members or, in limited circumstances, the stockholders may terminate an advisory contract with us and move the assets to another investment advisor. The board members also may deem it to be in the best interests of a fund’s stockholders to make other decisions adverse to us, such as reducing the compensation paid to us, requesting that we subsidize fund expenses over certain thresholds or imposing restrictions on our management of the fund. Our asset management agreements with intermediary program sponsors, private clients and institutional clients are generally terminable by these sponsors and clients upon short notice without penalty. As a result, there would be little impediment to these sponsors or clients terminating our agreements if they became dissatisfied with our performance. 19 Table of Contents The termination of any of the above agreements relating to a material portion of assets under management would adversely affect our investment management fee revenues and earnings and could possibly require us to take a charge to earnings as a result of the impairment of the goodwill or intangible assets associated with our asset managers. Goodwill or intangible assets could become further impaired requiring a charge to earnings in the event of significant market declines, net outflows of assets or losses of investment management contracts. At December 31, 2008, total assets on our balance sheet were $159.0 million and included $65.8 million of goodwill and other intangible assets. We test our goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances warrant. The amount of goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet is supported by the assets under management and the related revenues of the business. Recent impairment charges related to these assets were triggered by the significant declines in the equity markets and the decline in valuations of financial companies that were experienced primarily in the second half of 2008. It might be necessary to recognize additional impairment of these assets should these events worsen or recur or if we experience additional decreases in assets under management for these or any other reasons, such as material outflows, the termination of a material investment management contract or material outflows if clients withdraw their assets following the departure of a key employee. To the extent that declines in the capital markets and general global economy continue, further impairment becomes more likely, which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial position. We face strong competition in our businesses from mutual fund companies, banks and asset management firms. This competition could impair our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and maintain our profitability. We face strong competition in our businesses. We believe that our ability to compete is based on a number of factors, including investment performance, service, distribution capabilities and relative scale. We are also highly dependent on our distribution relationships. Our actual and potential competitors include a large number of mutual fund companies, banks and asset management firms, many of which have advantages over us. Industry consolidation has resulted in larger competitors with financial resources, marketing and distribution capabilities, and brand identities that are stronger than ours. Larger firms also may be able to offer, due to economies of scale, lower cost products. If we do not compete effectively in this environment, our profitability and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Potential changes in federal and state regulation may increase our business costs, which could adversely affect our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition or liquidity. We are subject to compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as regulation by the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) and other federal and state agencies and self-regulatory organizations (including NASDAQ). Each advisor (including unaffiliated sub-advisors) is registered with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (the “Investment Advisers Act”). Each closed-end fund and open-end fund is registered with the SEC under the Investment Company Act. Our broker-dealer is registered with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act and is a member of FINRA. All of our funds currently available for sale are qualified in all 50 states, Washington, D.C., Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Most aspects of our investment management business, including the business of the sub-advisors, are subject to various federal and state laws and regulations. These laws generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies the power to limit or restrict us and any sub-advisor from carrying on its investment management business in the event that it fails to comply with such laws and regulations. Sanctions may include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on our engaging in the investment management business for specified periods of time, the revocation of the advisors’ registrations as investment advisors or other censures and fines. 20 Table of Contents Compliance with these laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may increase materially our direct and indirect compliance costs and other expenses of doing business, thus having an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Although we spend substantial time and resources on our compliance policies, procedures and practices, non-compliance with applicable statutes, laws, rules, regulations and other requirements or our inability to timely and properly modify and update our compliance policies, procedures and practices to this frequently changing and highly complex regulatory environment, could result in our being subject to sanctions, fines, penalties, cease and desist or other relief, license revocation, suspensions or even expulsion from particular activities or markets. Legal and regulatory actions are inherent in our businesses and could result in financial losses or harm to our businesses. We are at various times involved in litigation and arbitration, both as a defendant and as a plaintiff. In addition, various regulatory bodies regularly make inquiries of us and, from time to time, conduct examinations or investigations concerning our compliance with, among other things, securities laws and laws governing the activities of broker-dealers. At various times we and our employees have also been subject to other claims alleging violations of rules and regulations of the SEC, FINRA and other regulatory authorities. There has been a significant increase in federal and state regulatory activity relating to financial services companies. We may be subject to further related or unrelated inquiries or actions in the future. There can be no assurance that our assessment of any claim or regulatory inquiry or proceeding will reflect the ultimate outcome and the outcome of any particular matter may be material to our operating results for a particular period. It is not feasible to predict or determine the ultimate outcome of all legal or regulatory proceedings or to provide reasonable ranges of potential losses. We believe that the outcomes of our litigation and regulatory matters are not likely, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition. However, because of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of any legal claims or regulatory inquiries or other matters, we cannot provide assurance as to the outcome of this or other pending or future matters, or if ultimately determined adversely to us, the loss, expense or other amounts or sanctions attributable to such matter, particularly where the matter presents complex or new or unsettled claims or legal theories. The resolution of such matter or matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. While we maintain insurance that we believe is appropriate relative to our business and the potential claims and liabilities to which we may be exposed, we cannot be assured that insurance will cover many of our potential liabilities or losses, particularly any regulatory liabilities or penalties which are generally not covered by insurance. In addition, insurance coverage may become more costly and require higher deductibles or co-insurance arrangements, and may not be available to cover certain potential claims or liabilities we may incur. Should this occur, it would expose us to greater non-insured losses, increase our expenses and negatively impact our earnings. Misconduct by our employees, sub-advisors and distribution partners is difficult to detect and deter and could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. Misconduct by our employees, sub-advisors or distribution partners could be determined to be violations of law resulting in regulatory sanctions or could result in serious reputational or financial harm. Misconduct can occur in each of our businesses and could include: • binding us to transactions that exceed authorized limits; • hiding unauthorized or unsuccessful activities resulting in unknown and unmanaged risks or losses; • improperly using or disclosing confidential information; 21 Table of Contents • recommending or executing transactions that are not suitable; • engaging in fraudulent or otherwise improper activity; • engaging in unauthorized or excessive trading to the detriment of customers; or • otherwise not complying with laws or our control procedures. We cannot always deter misconduct by our employees, sub-advisors and distribution partners, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Prevention and detection of misconduct among our sub-advisors and distribution partners, who are not employees of the Company, may be difficult. Misconduct by our employees, sub-advisors or distribution partners may have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We are continuing to develop our own risk management processes and procedures, which may not be effective against all of our business risks. As a stand-alone public company, we continue to develop our risk management processes and procedures. However, these processes and procedures may not be fully effective to address and guard against a constantly changing and highly complex regulatory environment, and we cannot be assured that our risk management approach will fully mitigate our exposure to all types of significant risk. Intermediary distribution channels account for a majority of our sales and our assets under management. Our operating model has historically relied on our intermediary distribution channels to account for a substantial portion of our sales and of our assets under management. Our success in our intermediary distribution channel depends upon our continuing to maintain strong relationships with our third-party intermediaries and with our other strategic distribution relationships. Any material reduction in these distribution relationships would impact the sales of our products, our assets under management and our revenues. In addition, these intermediaries generally offer their customers a significant array of investment products which are in addition to, and which compete with, our own investment products, and there is no assurance that these intermediaries or their customers may not favor competing investment products over those we offer. Further, consolidation in the financial services industry, of which our distribution channels are a part, could negatively impact future relationships and distribution channels. Any failure to comply with established client investment guidelines or other contractual requirements could result in claims from clients and regulatory sanctions. The agreements under which we manage assets often have established investment guidelines or other contractual requirements that we are required to comply with in providing our asset management services. Any failure to comply with these guidelines or other requirements could result in client claims, withdrawal of assets, and potential regulatory sanctions, any of which may negatively impact our revenues and earnings. We conduct our asset management business in a number of different geographical locations. Our affiliated managers who conduct our asset management services are located at various geographical locations throughout the United States. Their operations and services are coordinated and overseen from our headquarters. We have operated in this fashion for many years and we believe that we have been able to coordinate and appropriately oversee all of our asset management services through this business model. However, because we operate from more than one location, we could encounter technology, operational and oversight issues which potentially might not exist if we operated in one location. 22 Table of Contents We could experience temporary business interruptions in our technology infrastructure and thereby incur substantial additional costs. Our technology systems are critical to our operations and any failure or interruption of those systems or of our operations, whether resulting from technology or infrastructure breakdowns or defects or due to external causes such as fire or power disruptions, could result in financial loss and impact our reputation, growth and prospects. Risk Factors Relating to Our Common Stock Because of our size, there may be little institutional interest or trading volume in, or research analyst coverage of, our common stock. Public companies with relatively small market capitalizations such as we have, often have difficulty generating institutional interest or trading volume in their stock. This illiquidity can result in relative price discounts as compared to industry peers or to the stock’s inherent value. It can also result in limited research analyst coverage, the absence of which makes it difficult for a company to establish and hold a market following. Accordingly, our size could lead to our stock trading at prices that are significantly lower than our estimate of its inherent value. Our rights plan and applicable laws may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. We are subject to the provisions of Delaware law described below regarding business combinations with interested stockholders. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law applies to a broad range of business combinations between a Delaware corporation and an interested stockholder. The Delaware law definition of a “business combination” includes mergers, sales of assets, issuances of voting stock and certain other transactions. An “interested stockholder” is defined as any person who owns, directly or indirectly, 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation. Section 203 prohibits a corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless: • the board of directors approved the business combination before the stockholder became an interested stockholder, or the board of directors approved the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder; • upon completion of the transaction which resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, such stockholder owned at least 85% of the voting stock outstanding when the transaction began other than shares held by directors who are also officers and other than shares held by certain employee stock plans; or • the board of directors approved the business combination after the stockholder became an interested stockholder and the business combination was approved at a meeting by at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock not owned by such stockholder. In addition, in connection with the spin-off, we adopted a stockholders’ rights agreement in substantially the same form as that of our parent company. Under the agreement, if any person or group (other than Bank of Montreal and its controlled affiliates) acquires, or begins a tender or exchange offer that could result in such person acquiring, 15% or more of our common stock without approval by our board under specified circumstances, our other stockholders will have the right to purchase shares of our common stock, or shares of the acquiring company, at a substantial discount to the public market price. 23 Table of Contents We cannot predict the price range or volatility of our common stock. From time to time, the market price and volume of shares traded of companies in the asset management industry experience periods of significant volatility. Company-specific issues and general developments in the asset management industry or the economy may cause this volatility. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including: • general economic, market and political conditions; • quarterly variations in our results of operations or financial position or the fact that our results of operations or financial position could be below the expectations of the public market, analysts or investors; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; • operating and market price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable; • press releases or publicity relating to us or our competitors or relating to trends in our markets; and • purchases or sales of common stock or other securities by insiders. In addition, broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as investor perception and the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock, may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Until an orderly market develops in our common stock, the price at which our common stock trades may fluctuate significantly and may be lower or higher than the price that would be expected for a more seasoned outstanding issue. There may not be an active trading market for shares of our common stock. There is a limited history of public trading of our common stock. The shares of our common stock are listed on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol “VRTS.” We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in the Company will result in active trading in our common stock in the future or how liquid such a market will be, and there can be no assurance as to the price at which our common stock will continue to trade. We may not pay dividends on our common stock. We do not plan on initially paying any cash dividends on our common stock. However, the owners of our common stock may receive dividends when declared by our board from funds available for the payment of dividends. All decisions regarding the declaration and payment of dividends will be evaluated from time to time in light of our financial condition, earnings, growth prospects, other uses of cash, funding requirements, applicable law and other factors our board deems relevant. 24 Table of Contents Risk Factors Relating to the Equity Investment The agreements the Company has entered into in connection with the equity investment made by Harris Bankcorp contains restrictions that could limit our ability to obtain additional equity financing. The approval of the holders of our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock is required to effect certain significant issuances of equity securities of the Company or any of its controlled subsidiaries. Such required approval may restrict our ability to carry out our business objectives, take advantage of opportunities such as acquisitions that could supplement or grow our business and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to service our debt and operate our business. The voting power of the holders of our convertible preferred stock may discourage third party acquisitions of the Company at a premium. We are required to obtain the approval of holders of our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock for any merger, consolidation, acquisition, business combination, sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or its subsidiaries, or any similar transaction or pledge of assets, in certain circumstances. This may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire control of the Company and may preclude holders of Company common stock from receiving any premium above market price for their shares that may otherwise be offered in connection with any attempt to acquire control of the Company. For further information, restrictions and obligations concerning our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —Series B Convertible Preferred Stock”. The additional financing right of the holders of our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock may increase the costs of any future equity financing. Harris Bankcorp has an additional financing right until December 31, 2010 as long as it, or any of its affiliates, holds at least 10% of our outstanding common stock (including assuming conversion of our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock.) If the Company determines to raise equity financing for the purpose of financing our business (other than shares issued under any employee benefit plan, in connection with the acquisition of another company or pursuant to any stock split, stock dividend or recapitalization by the Company), we must offer Harris Bankcorp the initial opportunity to provide such financing up to a principal amount of $25 million of newly issued preferred stock. Any newly issued preferred stock would have the same terms as the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock, except with respect to the conversion price, which would be the lower of the current conversion price of the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock or the current per share volume-weighted average price of our common stock over the ten trading days immediately prior to the consummation of this additional financing right. As a result, should Harris Bankcorp choose to exercise the right, it could cause the financing to be more expensive than financing we might otherwise obtain. 25 Table of Contents SPECIAL NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report contains statements, including under the captions “Business,” “Risk Factors,” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” that are, or may be considered to be, forward-looking statements. All statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our beliefs or expectations, are forward-looking statements. These statements may be identified by such forward-looking terminology as “expect,” “estimate,” “plan,” “intend,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “may,” “should,” or similar statements or variations of such terms. Our forward-looking statements are based on a series of expectations, assumptions and projections about our Company, are not guarantees of future results or performance, and involve substantial risks and uncertainty, including assumptions and projections concerning our assets under management, net cash inflows and outflows, operating cash flows, and future credit facilities, for all forward periods. All of our forward-looking statements are as of the date of this Annual Report only. The Company can give no assurance that such expectations or forward-looking statements will prove to be correct. Actual results may differ materially. The Company does not undertake or plan to update or revise any such forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changes in plans, assumptions, estimates or projections, or other circumstances occurring after the date of this Annual Report, even if such results, changes or circumstances make it clear that any forward-looking information will not be realized. If there are any future public statements or disclosures by us which modify or impact any of the forward-looking statements contained in or accompanying this Annual Report, such statements or disclosures will be deemed to modify or supersede such statements in this Annual Report. An occurrence of, or any material adverse change in, one or more of the risk factors or risks and uncertainties referred to in this Annual Report or included in our other periodic reports filed with the SEC could materially and adversely affect our operations, financial results, cash flows, prospects, and liquidity. Our business and our forward-looking statements involve substantial known and unknown risks and uncertainties, including those discussed under “Risk Factors,” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this Annual Report, as well as the following risks and uncertainties: (a) the effects of recent adverse market and economic developments on all aspects of our business; (b) the poor performance of the securities markets; (c) the poor relative investment performance of some of our asset management strategies and the resulting outflows in our assets under management; (d) any lack of availability of additional financing on satisfactory terms or at all; (e) any inadequate performance of third-party relationships; (f) the withdrawal of assets from our management; (g) the impact of our separation from PNX; (h) our ability to attract and retain key personnel in a competitive environment; (i) the ability of independent trustees of our mutual funds and closed-end funds, intermediary program sponsors, managed account clients and institutional asset management clients to terminate their relationships with us; (j) the possibility that our goodwill or intangible assets could become further impaired, requiring a charge to earnings; (k) the strong competition we face in our business from mutual fund companies, banks and asset management firms most of which are larger than we are; (l) potential adverse regulatory and legal developments; (m) the difficulty of detecting misconduct by our employees, sub-advisors and distribution partners; (n) changes in accounting standards; (o) the difficulty in successfully completing future acquisitions; and (p) other risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report or in any of our filings with the SEC. Other factors which may impact our continuing operations, prospects, financial results and liquidity or which may cause actual results to differ from such forward-looking statements are discussed or included in the Company’s periodic reports filed with the SEC and are available on the our website at www.virtus.com under “Investor Relations”. You are urged to carefully consider all such factors. 26 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 