ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSBefore you make an investment decision with respect to any of our securities, you should carefully consider all the information we have included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our subsequent periodic filings with the SEC. In particular, you should carefully consider the risk factors described below and read the risks and uncertainties related to “forward-looking statements” as set forth in Item 7. “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” or MD&A. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial or that are not specific to us, such as general economic conditions, may also adversely affect our business and operations. The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with MD&A and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and make it more difficult for us to service our debt or obtain additional financing, if necessary.Our substantial level of indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business and make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. As a result of our significant amount of debt and debt service obligations, we face increased risks regarding, among other things, the following:•our ability to borrow additional amounts or refinance existing indebtedness in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, investments, stock repurchases, execution of our growth strategy, or other purposes may be limited or such financing may be more costly;•we have reduced availability of cash flow to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, investments, acquisitions or other strategic initiatives and other general corporate purposes because a substantial portion of our cash flow is needed to pay principal and interest on our debt;•we are more vulnerable to competitive pressures and to general adverse economic or industry conditions, including fluctuations in market interest rates or a downturn in our business;•we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors that have greater financial resources than us, including News America and its parent corporation;•it may be more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; and•there could be a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition if we were unable to service our debt or obtain additional financing, as needed.In addition, the indentures governing our unsecured 6 5/8% Senior Notes due 2021, or the 2021 Notes, and our Senior Secured Convertible Notes due 2033, or the 2033 Secured Notes, and our Senior Secured Credit Facility contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay such debt, if accelerated, or that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on such debt. See “-The restrictive covenants in our Senior Secured Credit Facility and the indentures governing the 2021 Notes and the 2033 Secured Notes and any of the agreements governing our future indebtedness could adversely restrict our financial and operating flexibility and subject us to other risks.”Despite our current indebtedness levels and the restrictive covenants set forth in the agreements governing our indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more indebtedness. This could increase the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness.The terms of our Senior Secured Credit Facility and the indentures governing our 2021 Notes and the 2033 Secured Notes permit us and our subsidiaries (including non-guarantor subsidiaries) to incur certain additional indebtedness, including additional secured indebtedness, and other liabilities that do not constitute indebtedness. If we or our subsidiaries are in compliance with the financial covenants set forth in these agreements, if any, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness. The indentures governing our 2021 Notes and 2033 Notes allow us to issue additional notes and other indebtedness in certain circumstances which may also be guaranteed by the guarantors and future domestic subsidiaries. In addition, under certain circumstances we will have the right to increase the size of our Senior Secured Credit Facility and incur additional secured indebtedness thereunder. As of December 31, 2012, we had $42.6 million available under the Revolving Line of Credit portion of our Senior Secured Credit Facility after giving effect to outstanding letters of credit. If new indebtedness is added to our or our subsidiaries' current indebtedness levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify.5Table of ContentsWe may not be able to generate a sufficient amount of cash flow to meet our debt obligations.Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to our indebtedness depends on our future financial and operating performance, which, in turn, will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and certain financial, business, competitive and other factors beyond our control. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result, holders of our debt could declare all outstanding principal and interest on our debt to be due and payable and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we would face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to reduce or delay scheduled expansions and capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital, restructure our debt or revise or delay our strategic plans. In addition, we cannot assure you that our operating performance, cash flow and capital resources will be sufficient for payment of our debt in the future. If we are required to take any of the actions referred to above, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions on terms acceptable to us, or at all, that these actions would enable us to continue to satisfy our capital requirements or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our various debt instruments. In addition, any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations.The restrictive covenants in our Senior Secured Credit Facility and the indentures governing the 2021 Notes and the 2033 Secured Notes and any of the agreements governing our future indebtedness could adversely restrict our financial and operating flexibility and subject us to other risks.Our Senior Secured Credit Facility and the indentures governing the 2021 Notes and the 2033 Secured Notes contain affirmative and negative covenants that limit our and our subsidiaries' ability to take certain actions. Our Senior Secured Credit Facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial conditions. Our Senior Secured Credit Facility and the indentures governing the 2021 Notes and the 2033 Secured Notes also restrict, among other things, our and our subsidiaries' ability to:•incur additional debt;•pay dividends and make other restricted payments;•make certain investments, loans and advances;•create or permit certain liens;•issue or sell capital interests of restricted subsidiaries;•use the proceeds from sales of assets and subsidiary interests;•enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates;•create or permit restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us;•enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and•sell all or substantially all of our assets or consolidate or merge with or into other companies.These restrictions may limit our ability to operate our business and may prohibit or limit our ability to execute our business strategy, compete, enhance our operations, take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise or meet our capital needs. Furthermore, future debt instruments or other contracts could contain financial or other covenants more restrictive than those applicable to our Senior Secured Credit Facility, the 2033 Secured Notes or the 2021 Notes.The breach of any of these covenants by us or the failure by us to meet any of these conditions or requirements could result in a default under any or all of such indebtedness. Our ability to continue to comply with these covenants and requirements may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. An event of default under our debt agreements could trigger events of default under our other debt agreements and the holders of the defaulted debt could declare all of the amounts outstanding thereunder, together with accrued interest, to become immediately due and payable. If such acceleration occurs, we would not be able to repay our debt and we may not be able to borrow sufficient funds to refinance our debt. Even if new financing is made available to us, it may not be on terms acceptable to us.The borrowings under our Senior Secured Credit Facility are based on variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of an increase in interest rates.As of December 31, 2012, $327.5 million of aggregate indebtedness remained outstanding under our Senior Secured Credit Facility and was subject to variable interest rates. However, on July 6, 2011, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement with an initial notional amount of $186.3 million. The effective date of this agreement was June 30, 2012. This interest rate swap agreement effectively fixes, at 3.6195% (including the current applicable margin), the interest rate for the portion of our variable rate debt outstanding under our Senior Secured Credit Facility equal to the outstanding notional amount of the interest rate swap agreement. The initial notional amount of $186.3 million amortizes quarterly by (i) $2.8 million from the effective 6Table of Contentsdate through the quarter ending September 30, 2013, (ii) $5.6 million from September 30, 2013 through the quarter ending September 30, 2014, and (iii) $8.4 million from September 30, 2014 until June 30, 2015, the expiration date of the agreement.As of December 31, 2012, the variable rate indebtedness outstanding under our Senior Secured Credit Facility in excess of the outstanding notional amount of the interest rate swap agreement described above was an aggregate principal amount of $146.9 million, and is subject to interest rate risk, as our interest payments will fluctuate as the underlying interest rate changes. If there is a 1% increase in the Eurodollar Rate, the interest rate currently applicable to this variable rate indebtedness, and we do not alter the terms of our interest rate swap agreement or enter into a new interest rate swap agreement, our debt service obligations on our variable rate indebtedness would increase by a total of $4.6 million between January 1, 2013 and June 27, 2016, the maturity date of the Senior Secured Credit Facility, which would affect our cash flows and results of operations. If we borrow additional amounts under the Revolving Line of Credit portion of our Senior Secured Credit Facility, our interest rate risk may increase.Increased competition could reduce the demand for our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and business prospects.Our products that reach a large area at low cost compete in the cooperative FSI business principally with News America. We compete for business primarily on the basis of price, category availability, targeting ability and customer service and relationships.FSI prices have declined substantially over the last several years. We cannot predict when, or if, FSI prices will stabilize or increase. This has resulted generally in decreasing revenues and profitability for our FSI segment. When FSI contracts come up for renewal, we may not be able to renew them on favorable terms or at all. In addition, our primary competitor, News America, and its parent corporation, have substantially greater financial resources than we do and may be better able to withstand changes in conditions within the industries in which we operate and may have significantly greater operating and financial flexibility than we do. During 2011 and 2012, News America took a greater market share and could take a greater market share going forward and cause us to lose business from our clients.In addition, it is possible that alternative media or changes in promotional materials, strategies or coupon delivery methods, including, without limitation, as a result of declines in newspaper circulation, could make our products less attractive to our clients and could cause a loss of demand for our products and services.Our Shared Mail segment is our largest revenue producer and most profitable segment. Our Shared Mail segment's media business faces intense competition based primarily on the ability to target selected potential consumers on a cost-effective basis and provide a satisfactory return on advertising investment. Shared Mail products also compete for advertising dollars against other forms of print and electronic media and other advertising in general. Competition for market share also comes from magazines, radio, broadcast and cable television, shoppers, the Internet, other communications media and other advertising printers that operate in Shared Mail markets. The extent and nature of such competition are, in large part, determined by the location and demographics of the markets targeted by a particular advertiser and the number of media alternatives in those markets. Shared Mail clients and prospective clients are operating with lower advertising budgets, while trying to allocate their spending across a growing number of media channels. They are increasingly faced with the challenge of doing more with less. The failure to develop new products and services could result in the loss of clients to current or future competitors. In addition, failure to gain market acceptance of new products and services could adversely affect growth.Our Neighborhood Targeted segment competes against commercial printers and media placement agencies for solo specialized promotional programs for single advertisers. While both types of competitors have a history of competing on the basis of price to increase volume and improve economies of scale, commercial printers tend to be particularly aggressive during periods when they have unused capacity. To the extent our competitors decide to compete more aggressively on price due to excess capacity or for other reasons, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our Neighborhood Targeted products also compete with several newspaper network groups in the ROP market. While entering the ROP market does not require a significant investment in machinery and equipment, it does require a significant investment in systems and human resources in order to compete effectively. An increase in the number of ROP competitors could result in a loss of market share.In our International, Digital Media & Services segment, our subsidiary, NCH Marketing Services, Inc., competes against Carolina Manufacturing Services and Carolina Services, both owned by Inmar, Inc., and International Outsourcing Services, LLC for coupon clearing and redemption services in the U.S., and our in-store business competes against News America. Brand.net competes against various digital media providers, the largest of which include Google and Yahoo. Brand.net also competes against traditional display advertising networks, including Undertone and Collective Media. Catalina and MaxPoint are also competitors within specific niche areas of the marketplace. To the extent that our competitors in these businesses 7Table of Contentsdecide to compete more aggressively on price, it could lower our market share and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our Shared Mail segment depends on the USPS for delivery of its products. If the USPS does not fulfill their obligations or significantly increases the cost of postage, our Shared Mail segment may lose clients and experience reduced revenues and profitability.Our Shared Mail segment's products are primarily delivered through the USPS. The inability of the USPS to deliver our Shared Mail segment's products on a timely basis or a significant reduction in the number of days the USPS delivers mail could disrupt our Shared Mail segment's business and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In February 2013, the Postmaster General proposed a plan to be effective in August 2013 that would eliminate Saturday mail delivery. Because less than 1 percent of our Shared Mail segment's mailed volume is delivered on Saturday and, under the proposed plan, the post offices would remain open on Saturday to accept and process our mail for delivery at the beginning of the week, the impact to us and our customers is expected to be negligible. However, if the USPS were to further reduce the number of days it delivers mail, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Postage expense is our Shared Mail segment's largest expense. USPS rates increase periodically, and we have no control over increases that may occur in the future. A significant increase in the cost of postage combined with our Shared Mail segment's inability to successfully pass through such postage rate increase directly to our clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Significant increases in the cost of paper, which are beyond our control, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We are dependent upon the availability of paper to print our clients' advertising circulars. Paper costs have historically experienced significant fluctuations. During 2012, we purchased approximately 77% of our paper from a single supplier pursuant to a fixed-price contract that expires at the end of 2013 and the remainder of our paper purchases were subject to variable market prices. We intend to enter into new long-term contracts in the future; however, we may be unable to do so upon similar terms and conditions, including price increase limitations and volume discounts. Changes in the supply of, or demand for, paper could affect the cost of paper or delivery times. We do not engage in hedging activities to limit our exposure to increases in paper prices and we have a limited ability to pass increased costs along to our clients. In the future, the price of paper may fluctuate significantly due to changes in supply and demand. We cannot assure you that we will have access to paper in the necessary amounts or at reasonable prices or that any increases in paper costs would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.The possibility of consolidation in our client base, the loss of clients to alternative advertising methods or decreases in the frequency or amount of clients' programs could impact our revenue growth and profitability.In recent years, there has been a growing trend toward retailer consolidation. As a result of this consolidation, the number of retailers to which we sell our products and services may decline and lead to a decrease in our revenues. In addition, we may lose clients due to the acquisition of such clients by companies that are not interested in using our products and services or that eliminate retail locations of our existing clients. Similarly, with respect to our in-store business, significant decreases in the number of stores within our retail network (whether as a result of retailer consolidation or otherwise) may adversely impact the demand for our in-store products. Also, a client may decide to decrease its program frequency or modify the amount, pages and weight, and kind of advertising pieces it purchases from us, whether due to the increased use of alternative advertising methods or shifts in consumer behavior, such as the increase in coupon redemption rates that has increased the cost per program for our clients, which has resulted in our clients in the consumer packaged goods vertical reducing the number of programs across many of our products. Our clients may be impacted by the items detailed above and by other general economic and business conditions that could affect their demand for our products and services. In the event of significant revenue decreases in our Shared Mail segment, we may experience a corresponding impact to profit due to the fixed cost nature of postage expense. Postage costs associated with advertising packages are fixed in nature for packages that weigh 3.3 ounces or less, whether or not the package is partially or completely filled. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our clients may be susceptible to changes in general economic conditions.Our revenues are affected by our clients' marketing spending and advertising budgets. Our revenues and results of operations may be subject to fluctuations based upon general economic conditions in the geographic locations where we offer services or distribute content. A continued recession or slower than anticipated improvement in economic conditions in these geographic locations may reduce demand for our products and services or depress pricing or prevent us from increasing pricing of those 8Table of Contentsproducts and services and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in global economic conditions could also shift demand to products and services for which we do not have competitive advantages, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. In addition, if we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and political conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, and our business could be negatively affected.If a client experiences financial difficulty, or is otherwise unable to meet its obligations as they become due, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.If a client's financial difficulties become severe, the client may be unwilling or unable to pay our invoices in the ordinary course of business, which could adversely affect collections of both our accounts receivable and unbilled services. Bankruptcy filings by or relating to one of our clients could bar us from collecting pre-bankruptcy debts from that client. A client bankruptcy would delay our efforts to collect past due balances and could ultimately preclude full collection of these amounts. We may recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims in the event of the bankruptcy and there is no guarantee our allowance for doubtful accounts would adequately cover such unrecovered amounts, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.Failure to maintain adequate internal controls may affect our ability to report timely and accurate financial statements and adversely affect our business and stock price.Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that companies design and maintain an adequate system of internal control over financial reporting and assess and report on such internal control structure annually. Such a system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. In addition, the design of any internal control system is based in part upon certain assumptions regarding the likelihood of future events. Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote.There can be no assurance that our internal control systems and procedures will not result in or lead to a future material weakness, or that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in our internal controls in the future. A material weakness in internal control over financial reporting would require our management and independent registered public accounting firm to evaluate our internal controls as ineffective. Furthermore, if we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be impaired. If our internal control over financial reporting is not considered adequate, or if as a result we are unable to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis, we may, among other things, experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price.Because we self-insure a number of our benefit plans, unexpected changes in claim trends may negatively impact our financial condition.We self-insure a significant portion of expected losses under our workers' compensation program and medical benefits claims. While we maintain third-party stop-loss insurance policies to cover certain liability costs in excess of predetermined retained amounts, unexpected changes in claim trends, including the severity and frequency of claims, actuarial estimates and medical cost inflation could result in costs that are significantly different than initially reported. If future claims-related liabilities increase due to unforeseen circumstances, our self-insurance costs could increase significantly.Due to uncertainty in the application and interpretation of applicable state sales tax laws, we may be exposed to additional sales tax liability.The application and interpretation of applicable state sales tax laws to certain of our products is uncertain. Accordingly, we may be exposed to additional sales tax liability to the extent various state jurisdictions determine that certain of our products are subject to such jurisdictions' sales tax. As of December 31, 2012, we have recorded a liability of $7.6 million, reflecting our best estimate of our contingent sales tax liability. While we believe all of our estimates and assumptions are reasonable and will be sustained upon audit, the actual liabilities may exceed such estimates. If so, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.9Table of ContentsWe cannot provide any guarantee of future dividend payments or that we will continue to repurchase our common stock pursuant to our stock repurchase program.Although our Board of Directors has indicated an intention to pay future quarterly cash dividends on our common stock and to continue to repurchase shares of our common stock under our share repurchase program, any determination to pay cash dividends on our common stock or repurchase shares of our common stock under our share repurchase program in the future will be based primarily upon our financial condition, results of operations, business requirements, and our Board of Directors' continuing determination that such dividends or share repurchases are in the best interests of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and our agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends.Our business is subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations in the United States and abroad regarding the internet, internet-related technologies and activities, privacy, data security, and other matters. Many of these laws and regulations are subject to change and uncertain interpretation, and could result in claims, changes to our business practices, monetary penalties, increased cost of operations, or otherwise harm our business.We are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations in the United States and abroad that involve matters central to our business, including the internet and internet-related technologies and activities, interest-based advertising, direct marketing, privacy, data collection, data aggregation, data protection, consumer protection, and more. These laws and regulations, many of which can be enforced by private parties or government entities, are constantly evolving and can be subject to significant change. In addition, the application and interpretation of these laws and regulations in the United States and abroad are often uncertain, particularly in the rapidly evolving digital environment in which we operate. For example, the application and interpretation of some laws and regulations that could govern data brokers and advertising networks is unsettled and developments in this area could affect the manner in which we operate our business, and the manner in which our third party data suppliers and publisher websites operate their businesses, and could reduce our future revenues and adversely affect what we perceive to be a competitive advantage. Laws and regulations abroad can be even more restrictive on matters involving privacy and data protection. Our introduction of new products or acquisition of new businesses and technologies may subject us to additional laws and regulations.Existing and proposed laws and regulations can be costly to comply with and can increase our operating costs, require significant management time and attention, delay or impede the operation of our business and the development of new products, and subject us to inquiries or investigations, enforcement actions, claims or other remedies, including fines or demands that we modify or cease existing business practices. In addition, we cannot assure that our customers and suppliers are currently in compliance, or will remain in compliance, with these laws and their own privacy policies. If our customers use our services and technologies in a manner that is not in compliance with these laws or their own stated privacy policies it may harm our business and operations and we may be held liable.Government agencies, trade associations and industry groups have implemented self-regulatory frameworks, including those involving interest-based advertising, and these frameworks are subject to change. Government agencies, trade associations and industry groups may implement new frameworks addressing areas affecting our business including data aggregation, “do not track” and tracking technologies. Similarly, some companies have released and are planning to release technologies that can impede our ability to conduct our business, including technologies that block trackers and browsers that default to “do not track”. These self-regulatory frameworks and technologies could undermine our ability to engage in targeted marketing, impede our ability to conduct our business, increase our costs, reduce our future revenues and may adversely affect what we perceive to be a competitive advantage.If our security measures are breached, or if we are subject to attacks that degrade or deny access to or delivery of our products and services, we may incur significant legal and financial exposure.Our products and services involve the storage and transmission of consumer-related information and security breaches expose us to a risk of loss of this information, degradation of our products or services, litigation, and potential liability. As with most online businesses, we experience cyber attacks of varying degrees on a regular basis. Our security measures may be breached due to cyber attack, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees to permit access, or to disclose information in order to gain access, to our information systems or our data. Any such breach or unauthorized access could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and a loss of confidence in the security of our products and services that could potentially have an adverse effect on our business.10Table of ContentsThe uncertainty of current economic and political conditions make budgeting and forecasting difficult and may reduce sales promotion spending.The future direction of the overall domestic and global economies could have a significant impact on our business. The potential for future terrorist attacks, increased global conflicts and the escalation of existing conflicts has created worldwide uncertainties that may have a negative impact on demand for our products. In addition, the continuing economic downturn of the past several years has decreased the advertising budgets of our client base, which could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because all components of our budgeting and forecasting, as well as that of our clients, are dependent upon estimates of growth in the markets served and demand for our products and services, the global economic downturn of the past several years and related financial market uncertainties may render estimates of future income and expenditures even more difficult to make than usual. Future events that may not have been anticipated could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.These risk factors that may affect future performance and the accuracy of forward-looking statements are illustrative. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.