Item 1A.Risk Factors Item 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2.Properties Item 3.Legal Proceedings Item 4.(Removed and Reserved). PART II Item 5.Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9a. Controls and Procedures Item 9b. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules SIGNATURES EXHIBIT INDEX EX-10.22 EX-12.1 EX-21.1 EX-23.1 EX-31.1 EX-31.2 EX-32.1 EX-32.2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business The Company Valassis is one of the nation’s leading media and marketing services companies, offering unparalleled reach and scale to more than 15,000 advertisers. Our RedPlum™ portfolio of products and services delivers value on a weekly basis to more than 100 million shoppers across a multi-media platform, in the mailbox, in the newspaper, on the doorstep, in store and online. In 2009 we saw increased coupon distribution and redemption; a changing consumer landscape toward value; and new savings-focused buying behaviors. The recent recession has shaped a new generation of consumers who we believe will increasingly demand value and seek out savings. We also believe these changes in spending and saving habits will continue when the economy rebounds, positioning our portfolio well for the future. RedPlum and redplum.com provide consumers with an abundance of local and national offerings across a multi-media platform on brands they want most. Our products and services are positioned to help our clients reach their customers through a mass-delivered or targeted program. We provide our clients with blended media solutions, including shared mail and newspaper delivery. We offer the only national shared mail distribution network in the industry. We utilize a patent-pending tool that provides our clients with multi-media targeting recommendations. We are committed to providing innovative marketing solutions to maximize the efficiency and effectiveness of promotions for our clients and to deliver value to consumers how, when and where they want. The cross selling of our products and services to our clients is expected to continue to drive sustainable profitable revenue growth. On March 2, 2007, we acquired ADVO, Inc., now known as Valassis Direct Mail, Inc., for approximately $1.2 billion through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Michigan Acquisition Company, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 5, 2006, as amended by Amendment No. 1, dated as of December 18, 2006. The results of ADVO’s operations have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the acquisition date. As a result of the acquisition, we made ADVO a separate reportable segment known as Shared Mail. We currently operate our business in the following four operating segments: Shared Mail – products that have the ability to reach 9 out of 10 U.S. households through shared mail distribution: • Our Shared Mail programs combine the individual print advertisements of various clients into a single shared mail package delivered primarily through the United States Postal Service, or USPS; and • Solo Mail and Other Products and Services consist of list procurement, addressing, processing and the distribution of brochures and circulars for individual clients through the USPS. Neighborhood Targeted – products that are targeted based on geographic and demographic characteristics: • Newspaper Inserts (formerly called Preprinted Inserts) – specialized print promotion programs in a variety of formats for single advertisers; • Newspaper-delivered Product Sampling – client product samples inserted into newspapers or placed in a polybag with the newspapers; • Newspaper Polybag Advertising – full-color advertising message on a newspaper polybag without a sample; • Door Hangers – product samples and advertisements delivered directly to the consumer’s door; and • Run of Press (ROP) – brokering of advertising printed directly on pages of newspapers. Free-standing Inserts – products that reach a large area at a low cost to the client: • Cooperative Free-standing Inserts (FSI) – four-color promotional booklets containing the coupons of multiple advertisers (cooperative) that are distributed to approximately 59 million households through newspapers and shared mail, as well as customized FSIs (custom co-ops) featuring multiple brands of a single client. 2 Table of Contents International, Digital Media & Services: • This segment includes all other lines of business not included in the separately reported segments, including NCH Marketing Services, Inc. (“NCH”), Valassis Canada, Promotion Watch, direct mail, analytics, digital and in-store. Shared Mail We distribute, through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Valassis Direct Mail, Inc., shared mail advertising products to approximately 70 million U.S. households, primarily on a weekly basis largely through the USPS. The Shared Mail segment also includes solo mail and other products and services. We maintain one of the most comprehensive and up-to-date residential address lists in the United States and have a total reach of over 112 million U.S. households. Our client base for this segment consists principally of national and local grocers, restaurants, drug stores, discount and department stores and home furnishing and other retailers. Shared Mail programs combine the individual print advertisements of various clients into a single shared mail package delivered mainly through the USPS. Individual clients can select targeting levels by choosing all ZIP code zones, specific ZIP code zones, or sub-zip code zones; these sub-zip code zones average approximately 3,500 households. Our advanced targeting capabilities enable clients, such as retail chains, to select areas serviced by their stores and, at the same time, distribute different versions of the targeted advertisements to reach their target consumers. Shared Mail clients share bulk pre-sort mailing rates for a single package, generating substantial savings relative to an individual mailing. In addition, the Shared Mail nationwide network of state-of-the-art distribution facilities provide clients with the ability to reach consumers within a two-day window, assuring timely delivery of coupons, dated offers and sale-break announcements. In 2009, we distributed approximately 3.8 billion shared mail packages, including 33.1 billion shared mail pieces. Our core Shared Mail program is published under our consumer brand name RedPlum. The RedPlum Shared Mail Package is a four-page, color booklet wrapped around individual print advertisements of various clients. This program reaches approximately 70 million households on a weekly basis. Shared Mail can reach an additional 33 million households that extend coverage to markets not already served by Shared Mail’s core distribution network. Shared Mail handles clients’ orders directly and manages distribution of their advertising through its Allied National Network Extension, or A.N.N.E. – a partnership of independent shared mail companies. Conversely, A.N.N.E enables participating members to offer their clients extended marketplace reach with the shared mail household coverage. Solo mail and other products and services included in this segment consist of list procurement, addressing, processing and the distribution of brochures and circulars for individual clients through the USPS. We also provide ancillary services to complement our mail programs such as list rental and provide direct mail advertising solutions for local neighborhood businesses utilizing an envelope format. Distribution costs, which include postage, transportation and other alternative delivery costs, are the largest cost component of the Shared Mail segment. For the year ended December 31, 2009, distribution costs represented approximately 55% of total Shared Mail costs. Shared Mail revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 were $1,279.1 million, or 57.0% of our total revenue. The top 10 clients accounted for approximately 26.9% of Shared Mail’s revenues in 2009, and no one client accounted for over 10% of the segment revenues during the same period. Neighborhood Targeted We believe that our clients use us to place Neighborhood Targeted advertising because of our ability to negotiate favorable media rates, our experience in selecting the best newspapers to meet our clients’ needs, our well-developed production and national network placement capabilities and our ability to integrate ROP programs with our other products and services. Media is the major cost component of the Neighborhood Targeted segment. 3 Table of Contents Newspaper Inserts We provide our clients with print and media placement of traditional free-standing solo insert formats, as well as specialty print promotion products in various customized formats. Because these promotions feature only one client, the client has the ability to create a completely individualized promotion. This allows clients the flexibility to run promotions any day of the week in newspapers and through shared mail throughout the United States and to efficiently target these promotions. We specialize in producing full-service promotions for a wide range of clients allowing orders to be placed on a national, regional or local basis. Polybag Advertising and Sampling We offer newspaper-delivered or direct-to-door sampling products that give manufacturers the ability to cover up to 65 million households. Samples can either be machine-inserted into newspapers (Newspac®), placed in a polybag around the newspaper, or pre-sealed in a pouch that forms part of the polybag (Newspouch®). In addition, Brand Bag™ and Brand Bag+™ offer clients the opportunity to deliver an impactful advertising message on a newspaper polybag without including a sample. The bags feature the client’s advertising with the option of a weather-resistant tear-off coupon. Run of Press (ROP) We offer our clients the ability to run their promotional advertising directly on the pages of newspapers by brokering advertising space. We offer the flexibility to run promotional advertising in any number of the available newspapers in our network of over 13,000 publications. The short lead time associated with this business makes this medium attractive for last-minute marketing decisions by our clients. Neighborhood Targeted products generated revenues of $444.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2009, or 19.8% of our total revenues. The top 10 clients accounted for approximately 44.3% of Neighborhood Targeted revenues during the year ended December 31, 2009, and no one client accounted for over 10% of the segment revenues during the same period. Free-Standing Inserts Cooperative Free-standing Inserts (FSIs) are four-color promotional booklets containing promotions from multiple clients, printed by us at our own facilities and distributed through newspapers and shared mail. In 2009, we delivered our traditional cooperative FSIs, via newspapers and shared mail, to approximately 59.2 million households on 42 publishing dates. We also produce customized FSIs (custom co-ops) featuring multiple brands of a single client. The majority of cooperative FSI business is conducted under long-term contracts, which currently average over two years in duration. Under these contracts, clients typically guarantee us a percentage of their cooperative FSI pages at agreed upon pricing covering a specified amount of time. The FSI offers product category exclusivity for our clients so that competing products in the same product category will not be printed in the same FSI book. If a category is not available on the date requested, the client has the option to use our competitor’s FSI or select another date from us to include their promotion. Due to this environment, many clients reserve their space well in advance of the actual promotion date. At the end of the selling cycle for each cooperative FSI program, there is generally space in the booklet that has not been sold. This “remnant” space is sold at a discounted price, primarily to direct response marketers, who are placed on a waiting list for space that may become available. We select direct response marketers as remnant space clients on the basis of a number of factors, including price, circulation, reputation and credit-worthiness. Direct response clients are subject to being “bumped” in favor of a regular price client in need of space at the last minute. Remnant space represents approximately 20% of the total FSI pages we distribute annually and the associated revenues are included in total cooperative FSI revenues for financial reporting purposes. The cost components of the FSI are media distribution, paper and manufacturing/transportation costs, which represented approximately 41.0%, 32.0% and 27.0% of total FSI costs, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2009. Total FSI revenues during the year ended December 31, 2009 were $361.4 million, or 16.1% of our total revenues. The top 10 FSI clients accounted for approximately 53.1% of FSI revenues during the year ended December 31, 2009, and one client accounted for approximately 21.6% of FSI revenues for the same period. 4 Table of Contents International, Digital Media & Services NCH Marketing Services, Inc. (NCH) NCH is a provider of coupon clearing, promotion information management products and marketing services in the United States and Europe and has production facilities in Mexico and Poland. Services include retailer coupon clearing, manufacturer redemption and promotion analysis. During 2009, approximately 31.3% of NCH revenues were from Europe. In 2009, consumers redeemed 3.2 billion coupons, accounting for a 23% increase over the prior year. Valassis Canada, Inc. Valassis Canada provides promotional products and services in Canada, such as FSIs reaching over 5 million Canadian households, as well as other promotion products and services. Promotion Watch, Inc. Promotion Watch offers a variety of promotion security and consulting services, including the execution of sweepstakes and contests. Promotion Watch helps clients with the entire promotion process, from preliminary planning, through the writing of official rules, overseeing the printing and placement of winning pieces and conducting background investigations of winners. Direct Mail/Analytics/Digital We produce direct-mail programs based on multiple data sources, including frequent shopper card data. We also provide proprietary software solutions for clients to manage and analyze frequent shopper data. Our suite of digital products is positioned to extend a promotion’s reach online and activate print media digitally. Redplum.com and our RedPlum Network of affiliate sites allow clients to reach consumers as they increasingly seek value online. In-store We have an alliance with Insignia POPS and are also partnering with one of the nation’s largest supermarket chains on our RedPlum suite of in-store media. Our RedPlum Perimeter program helps retailers engage with consumers in heavily trafficked areas of the store – the deli, meat and seafood counters. International, Digital Media & Services generated revenues of $159.0 million in 2009, or 7.1% of our total revenues. The top 10 clients accounted for approximately 29.9% of International, Digital Media & Services revenues during the year ended December 31, 2009, and one client accounted for approximately 10.7% of International, Digital Media & Services revenues during the same period. Competition Shared Mail Our Shared Mail segment competes for advertising dollars from clients who want the ability to target selected potential consumers on a cost-effective basis and provide a superior return on their advertising investment. This segment’s principal direct marketing competitors are other companies with residential lists and similar cooperative mailing advertising programs. These companies have a significant presence in many of our markets and represent direct competition to the RedPlum Shared Mail package in those areas. Competition for market share and advertising dollars from clients comes from other forms of print media, such as newspapers, magazines and other advertising printers, and electronic media such as radio, broadcast, the Internet and other communication media. The extent and nature of such competition are, in large part, determined by location and demographics of the markets targeted by a particular advertiser and the number of media alternatives in those markets. To the extent our clients decide to use other forms of print and electronic media and other advertising in general, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 5 Table of Contents Neighborhood Targeted Our Neighborhood Targeted segment competes against commercial printers and media placement agencies for solo specialized promotional programs for single advertisers. While both types of competitors have a history of competing on the basis of price to increase volume and improve economies of scale, commercial printers tend to be particularly aggressive during the periods when they have unused capacity. To the extent our competitors in these businesses decide to compete more aggressively on price due to excess capacity or for other reasons, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also compete with several newspaper network groups in the ROP market. While entering the ROP business does not require a significant investment in machinery and equipment, it does require a significant investment in systems and human resources in order to compete in today’s environment. An increase in the number of ROP competitors could result in a loss of market share. Free-standing Inserts Our RedPlum cooperative FSI competes principally with the FSI distributed by News America Marketing FSI, or News America, a company owned by The News Corporation. We compete for business primarily on the basis of price, category availability, targeting ability and customer service and relationships. Although FSI industry units increased by 3.9% in 2009 and our costs have declined, revenues have been impacted by substantial pricing pressure over the last several years. We believe our unique ability to blend our national shared mail network with newspaper-delivered distribution will differentiate us in the FSI industry as newspaper circulation continues to decline. International, Digital Media & Services In our International, Digital Media & Services segment, NCH competes against Carolina Manufacturing Services and Carolina Services, both owned by Inmar, Inc., and International Outsourcing Services, LLC for coupon clearing services in the United States. To the extent that our competitors in this business decide to compete more aggressively on price, it could lower our market share and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In Direct Mail/Analytics, we compete against full-service direct mail providers, commercial letter shops and direct/loyalty marketing agencies. To the extent that our competitors in this business decide to compete more aggressively on price, it could lower our market share and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Clients No single client accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Employees As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 7,440 full-time employees worldwide. Approximately 4,700 are employed in the United States. One domestic and some foreign locations have employees represented by labor unions; we consider labor relations with employees to be good and have not experienced any interruption of our operations due to labor disagreements. Raw Materials Paper is the primary raw material essential to our business. A variety of factors including demand, capacity, pulp supply and general economic conditions can affect paper prices. To protect against significant price fluctuations and to maximize purchasing efficiencies, we have entered into a long-term contract through the end of 2011 with a single supplier for a minimum of approximately 58% of our paper requirements. The balance of our remaining paper requirements will be transacted with other suppliers on a short-term basis. See “Significant increases in the cost of paper, which are beyond our control, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition” in Item 1A. “Risk Factors.” 6 Table of Contents Segment Reporting For segment financial information for the years 2009, 2008 and 2007, see the table under Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Results of Operations” and Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Availability of Filings We make all of our reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, available, free of charge, on our Web site at www.valassis.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. 7 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Before you make an investment decision with respect to any of our securities, you should carefully consider all the information we have included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our subsequent periodic filings with the SEC. In particular, you should carefully consider the risk factors described below and read the risks and uncertainties related to “forward-looking statements” as set forth in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” or MD&A. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial or that are not specific to us, such as general economic conditions, may also adversely affect our business and operations. The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with MD&A and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and make it more difficult for us to service our debt or obtain additional financing, if necessary. We incurred a substantial level of debt in connection with our acquisition of ADVO in 2007. This high degree of leverage could have a material adverse effect on our business and make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. As a result of our significant amount of debt and debt service obligations, we face increased risks regarding, among other things, the following: • our ability to borrow additional amounts or refinance existing indebtedness in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, investments, stock repurchases, execution of our growth strategy, or other purposes may be limited or such financing may be more costly; • we have reduced availability of cash flow to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, investments, acquisitions or other strategic initiatives and other general corporate purposes because a substantial portion of our cash flow is needed to pay principal and interest on our debt; • we are more vulnerable to competitive pressures and to general adverse economic or industry conditions, including fluctuations in market interest rates or a downturn in our business; • we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors that have greater financial resources than us, including News America and its parent corporation; • it may be more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; and • there could be a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition if we were unable to service our debt or obtain additional financing, as needed. In addition, the indentures governing our 81/4% Senior Notes due 2015, or the 2015 Notes, and our Senior Secured Convertible Notes due 2033, or the 2033 Secured Notes, and our senior secured credit facility contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay such debt, if accelerated, or that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on such debt. See “—The restrictive covenants in our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the 2015 Notes and the 2033 Secured Notes and any of the agreements governing our future indebtedness could adversely restrict our financial and operating flexibility and subject us to other risks.” 8 Table of Contents Despite our current indebtedness levels and the restrictive covenants set forth in the agreements governing our indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more indebtedness. This could increase the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. The terms of our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the 2015 Notes and the 2033 Secured Notes permit us and certain of our subsidiaries to incur certain additional indebtedness, including additional secured indebtedness. If we or our subsidiaries are in compliance with the financial covenants set forth in these agreements, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness. In addition, under certain circumstances we will have the right to increase the size of our senior secured credit facility. If new debt is added to our or our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify. We may not be able to generate a sufficient amount of cash flow to meet our debt obligations. Our ability to make scheduled payments with respect to our indebtedness depends on our future financial and operating performance and ability to refinance debt when necessary. Each of these factors largely depends on prevailing economic conditions and certain financial, business, competitive and other factors beyond our control. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result, holders of our debt could declare all outstanding principal and interest on our debt to be due and payable and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Furthermore, if our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to reduce or delay scheduled expansions and capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital, restructure our debt or revise or delay our strategic plans. We cannot assure you that our operating performance, cash flow and capital resources will be sufficient for payment of our debt in the future. If we are required to take any of the actions referred to above, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions on terms acceptable to us, or at all, that these actions would enable us to continue to satisfy our capital requirements or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our various debt instruments. In addition, any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The restrictive covenants in our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the 2015 Notes and the 2033 Secured Notes and any of the agreements governing our future indebtedness could adversely restrict our financial and operating flexibility and subject us to other risks. Our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our 2015 Notes and our 2033 Secured Notes contain affirmative and negative covenants that limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to take certain actions. Our senior secured credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial conditions. Our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the 2015 Notes and the 2033 Secured Notes also restrict, among other things, our and our subsidiaries’ ability to: • incur additional debt; • pay dividends and make other restricted payments; • make certain investments, loans and advances; • create or permit certain liens; • issue or sell capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; • use the proceeds from sales of assets and subsidiary stock; • enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; • create or permit restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and • sell all or substantially all of our assets or consolidate or merge with or into other companies. 9 Table of Contents These restrictions may limit our ability to operate our business and may prohibit or limit our ability to enhance our operations, take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise or meet our capital needs. Furthermore, future debt instruments or other contracts could contain financial or other covenants more restrictive than those applicable to our senior secured credit facility, the 2033 Secured Notes or the 2015 Notes. The breach of any of these covenants by us or the failure by us to meet any of these conditions or requirements could result in a default under any or all of such indebtedness. Our ability to continue to comply with these covenants and requirements may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. An event of default under our debt agreements could trigger events of default under our other debt agreements and the holders of the defaulted debt could declare all of the amounts outstanding thereunder, together with accrued interest, to become immediately due and payable. If such acceleration occurs, we would not be able to repay our debt and we may not be able to borrow sufficient funds to refinance our debt. Even if new financing is made available to us, it may not be on terms acceptable to us. Disruptions in the credit markets have made it more difficult for companies to secure financing. If we are unable to access financing on terms and at a time acceptable to us for any reason, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. We believe that we have sufficient liquidity to support the ongoing activities of our business, repay our existing debt obligations and to make limited investments in future growth opportunities. Our ability to obtain any financing or refinancing, whether through the issuance of new equity or debt securities or otherwise, and the terms of any such financing are dependent on, among other things, our financial condition, financial market conditions within our industry and generally, credit ratings and numerous other factors. Over the past two years, credit markets have experienced unusual uncertainty, and liquidity and access to capital markets and other sources of financing have tightened. Consequently, in the event we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time, if at all. If we are unable to obtain financing on terms and within a time acceptable to us it could, in addition to other negative effects, have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. Some of our debt, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facility, is based on variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of an increase in interest rates. As of December 31, 2009, $471.0 million of our $1.01 billion aggregate indebtedness was subject to variable interest rates. Two interest rate swap agreements fix the interest rate for an aggregate of $447.2 million of this variable rate debt under our senior secured credit facility at an interest rate of 6.795% and expire in December 2010. Our remaining variable rate debt of $23.8 million is subject to market rate risk, as our interest payments will fluctuate as the underlying interest rates change as a result of market changes. During the period when our interest rate swap agreements are effective, a 1% change in interest rates would result in a change in interest expense of approximately $0.2 million per year. If there is a rise in interest rates, our debt service obligations on our variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, which would affect our cash flows and results of operations. If we borrow additional amounts under the revolving portion of our senior secured credit facility, our market rate risk may increase. In December 2009, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement with an initial notional amount of $300.0 million to fix the interest rate at 3.755%. The notional amount of $300.0 million amortizes by $40.0 million at the end of each quarter to $100.0 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2012. The effective date of this new swap agreement corresponds to the expiration date of the existing swap agreements. The economic downturn during the past two years and uncertain future outlook, including the credit and liquidity crisis in the financial markets, could continue to further negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business results could be adversely affected by a prolonged global, national or regional economic recession. As a result of the credit and liquidity crisis in the U.S. and throughout the global financial system, substantial volatility in world capital markets and the banking industry has occurred. The economic volatility and the tightening of credit markets during the past two years has resulted in widespread reduction in business activity and consumer spending. From an operational perspective, we have been experiencing lower revenues as a result of reduced consumer confidence and reduced advertising spending in our markets. From a financing perspective, this unprecedented instability and the tightening of the credit markets may adversely affect the ability of our customers to obtain credit which may restrict their ability to purchase our products and services. Additionally, it may make it difficult for us to access the credit market and to obtain financing or refinancing, as the case may be, on satisfactory terms or at all. The difficult economic conditions may not improve significantly in the near future and any continuation or worsening of these conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents Increased competition could reduce the demand for our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. Our products that reach a large area at low cost compete in the cooperative FSI business principally with News America. We compete for business primarily on the basis of price, category availability, targeting ability and customer service and relationships. News America has been competing aggressively for FSI business. As a consequence, FSI prices have declined substantially over the last several years and are expected to continue to decline in the foreseeable future. We cannot predict when, or if, FSI prices will stabilize or increase. This has resulted generally in decreasing revenues and profitability for our FSI segment. When FSI contracts come up for renewal, we may not be able to renew them on favorable terms or at all. In addition, our primary competitor, News America, and its parent corporation, have substantially greater financial resources than we do and may be better able to withstand changes in conditions within the industries in which we operate and may have significantly greater operating and financial flexibility than we do. This competitor could take a greater market share and cause us to lose business from our clients. In addition, it is possible that alternative media or changes in promotional strategies could make our products less attractive to our clients and could cause a loss of demand for our products and services. Our Shared Mail segment is our largest revenue producer and most profitable segment. Our Shared Mail segment’s media business faces intense competition based primarily on the ability to target selected potential customers on a cost-effective basis and provide a satisfactory return on advertising investment. Shared Mail products also compete for advertising dollars against other forms of print and electronic media and other advertising in general. Competition for market share advertising also comes from magazines, radio, broadcast and cable television, shoppers, the Internet, other communications media and other advertising printers that operate in Shared Mail markets. The extent and nature of such competition are, in large part, determined by the location and demographics of the markets targeted by a particular advertiser and the number of media alternatives in those markets. Shared Mail clients and prospective clients are operating with lower advertising budgets, while trying to allocate their spending across a growing number of media channels. They are increasingly faced with the challenge of doing more with less. The failure to develop new products and services could result in the loss of clients to current or future competitors. In addition, failure to gain market acceptance of new products and services could adversely affect growth. Our Neighborhood Targeted segment competes against commercial printers and media placement agencies for solo specialized promotional programs for single advertisers. While both types of competitors have a history of competing on the basis of price to increase volume and improve economies of scale, commercial printers tend to be particularly aggressive during periods when they have unused capacity. In addition, we compete with Sunflower Marketing with respect to our polybag advertising and sampling products. To the extent our competitors in these businesses decide to compete more aggressively on price due to excess capacity or for other reasons it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Neighborhood Targeted products also compete with several newspaper network groups in the ROP market. While entering the ROP market does not require a significant investment in machinery and equipment, it does require a significant investment in systems and human resources in order to compete effectively. An increase in the number of ROP competitors could result in a loss of market share. In our International, Digital Media & Services segment, our subsidiary, NCH Marketing Services, Inc., competes against Carolina Manufacturing Services and Carolina Services, both owned by Inmar, Inc., and International Outsourcing Services, LLC for coupon clearing and redemption services in the U.S. To the extent that our competitors in this business decide to compete more aggressively on price, it could lower our market share and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Our Shared Mail segment depends on the USPS and other third parties for delivery of its products. If such third parties do not fulfill their obligations, our Shared Mail segment may lose clients and experience reduced revenues and profitability. Our Shared Mail segment’s products are primarily delivered through the USPS. Postage expense is our Shared Mail segment’s largest expense. The inability of the USPS to deliver our Shared Mail segment’s products on a timely basis or any reduction in the number of days the USPS delivers mail could disrupt our Shared Mail segment’s business and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, USPS rates increase periodically, and we have no control over increases that may occur in the future. An increase in the cost of postage combined with our Shared Mail segment’s inability to successfully pass through such postage rate increase directly to its clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Significant increases in the cost of paper, which are beyond our control, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon the availability of paper to print our clients’ advertising circulars. Paper costs have historically experienced significant fluctuations. We currently have one long-term contract with a single supplier for a minimum of approximately 58% of our paper requirement. The remainder of our paper requirements are subject to variable market prices for paper. Changes in the supply of, or demand for, paper could affect market prices or delivery times. We do not engage in hedging activities to limit our exposure to increases in paper prices and we have a limited ability to pass increased costs along to our clients. In the future, the price of paper may fluctuate significantly due to changes in supply and demand. We cannot assure you that we will have access to paper in the necessary amounts or at reasonable prices or that any increases in paper costs would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The possibility of consolidation in our client base, the loss of clients to alternative advertising methods or decreases in the frequency or amount of clients’ mailings could impact our revenue growth and profitability. In recent years there has been a growing trend toward retailer consolidation. As a result of this consolidation, the number of retailers to which we sell our products and services may decline and lead to a decrease in our revenues. In addition, we may lose clients due to the acquisition of such clients companies that are not interested in using our products and services or that eliminate retail locations of our existing clients. Also, a client may decide to decrease its mailing frequency or modify the amount, pages and weight, and kind of advertising pieces it purchases from us, especially in light of the prolonged economic downturn. Our clients may be impacted by the items detailed above and by other general economic and business conditions that could affect their demand for our products and services and, in turn, choose other alternative advertising methods. Specifically, significant revenue changes in our Shared Mail segment may have a corresponding impact to profit due to the fixed cost nature of postage expense. Postage costs associated with advertising packages are fixed in nature for packages that weigh 3.3 ounces or less, whether or not the package is partially or completely filled. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our clients may be susceptible to changes in general economic conditions. Our revenues are affected by our clients’ marketing spending and advertising budgets. Our revenues and results of operations may be subject to fluctuations based upon general economic conditions in the geographic locations where we offer services or distribute content. A continued economic downturn or a continued recession in these geographic locations may reduce demand for our products and services or depress pricing of those products and services and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in global economic conditions could also shift demand to products and services for which we do not have competitive advantages, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. In addition, if we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and political conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, and our business could be negatively affected. We depend on vendors to timely supply us with quality materials at the right prices. Global economic and political conditions may affect our vendors. A prolonged economic downturn could limit their ability to timely provide us with acceptable materials at affordable prices. Our inability to acquire suitable materials on acceptable terms or the loss of key vendors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Our goodwill and intangible assets could become impaired, which could reduce the value of our assets and reduce our net income in the year in which the write-off occurs. Our goodwill and intangible assets are subject to annual impairment testing. In addition, we review the carrying value of our long-lived tangible and intangible assets and goodwill for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. Significant negative industry or economic trends, including the market price of our common stock or the fair value of our debt, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in the use of the tangible and intangible assets, and mergers and acquisitions could result in an impairment charge for any of our long-lived tangible and intangible assets or goodwill. As a result of the decline in the trading value of our equity securities during the last quarter of 2008 and continuing negative industry and economic trends that directly affected our business during that time, we recorded a $245.7 million pre-tax, non-cash impairment charge related to goodwill and other intangible assets in December 2008. See “Critical Accounting Policies” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion of the impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets. A continued decline in general economic conditions or global equity valuations could impact the judgments and assumptions about fair value of each of our reporting units, and we would be required to assess the recoverability of long-lived and intangible assets, which could result in additional impairment charges. Any additional impairment charge related to our intangible assets, other long-lived assets or goodwill could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to maintain adequate internal controls may affect our ability to report timely and accurate financial statements and adversely affect our business and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that companies design and maintain an adequate system of internal control over financial reporting and assess and report on such internal control structure annually. Such a system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. In addition, the design of any internal control system is based in part upon certain assumptions regarding the likelihood of future events. Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. There can be no assurance that our internal control systems and procedures will not result in or lead to a future material weakness, or that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in our internal controls in the future. A material weakness in internal control over financial reporting would require our management and independent registered public accounting firm to evaluate our internal controls as ineffective. Furthermore, if we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be impaired. If our internal control over financial reporting is not considered adequate, or if as a result we are unable to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis, we may, among other things, experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. Because we self insure a number of our benefit plans, unexpected changes in claim trends may negatively impact our financial condition. We self-insure a significant portion of expected losses under our workers’ compensation program and medical benefits claims. While we maintain third-party stop-loss insurance policies to cover certain liability costs in excess of predetermined retained amounts, unexpected changes in claim trends, including the severity and frequency of claims, actuarial estimates and medical cost inflation could result in costs that are significantly different than initially reported. If future claims-related liabilities increase due to unforeseen circumstances, our self-insurance costs could increase significantly. 13 Table of Contents Due to uncertainty in the application and interpretation of applicable state sales tax laws, we may be exposed to additional sales tax liability. The application and interpretation of applicable state sales tax laws to certain of our products is uncertain. Accordingly, we may be exposed to additional sales tax liability to the extent various state jurisdictions determine that certain of our products are subject to such jurisdictions’ sales tax. We have recorded a liability of $9.9 million, reflecting our best estimate of our potential sales tax liability. While we believe all of our estimates and assumptions are reasonable and will be sustained upon audit, the actual liabilities may exceed such estimates. If so, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The uncertainty of current economic and political conditions make budgeting and forecasting difficult and may reduce sales promotion spending. The future direction of the overall domestic and global economies could have a significant impact on our business. The potential for future terrorist attacks, increased global conflicts and the escalation of existing conflicts has created worldwide uncertainties that may have a negative impact on demand for our products. In addition, the economic downturn of the past two years has decreased the advertising budgets of our client base, which could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because all components of our budgeting and forecasting, as well as that of our clients, are dependent upon estimates of growth in the markets served and demand for our products and services, the global economic downturn of the past two years and related financial market uncertainties may render estimates of future income and expenditures even more difficult to make than usual. Future events that may not have been anticipated could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risk factors that may affect future performance and the accuracy of forward-looking statements are illustrative. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 