Item 1A. Risk Factors A wide range of factors could materially affect Valassis’ future developments and performance, particularly the statements made in the “Business Outlook” section. Factors affecting our operations and future financial performance include the risks and uncertainties set forth below: Risk Factors Relating to our Business Increased competition could reduce the demand for our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. Our products that reach a large area at low cost, which we refer as to our Market Delivered products compete in the cooperative FSI business principally with News America Marketing FSI, a company owned by The News Corporation. We compete for business primarily on the basis of the following: • price; • category availability; • targeting ability; • ability to integrate with other products; • program development consulting; • customer services and sales relationships; and • lead times. In the past, new competitors have tried to establish themselves in the FSI market resulting in an increase in the number of FSI programs. This caused periods of intense price competition and higher costs due to a decrease in pages per FSI program. However, we believe that currently there are substantial barriers to entry for a new competitor to enter the FSI market due to what we believe are the monopolistic and anti-competitive practices of News America Marketing FSI and News America Marketing In-Store Services. Specifically, we believe News America Marketing FSI illegally ties its FSI sales to products in the in-store promotions market, a market that we believe News America Marketing In-Store Services has effectively monopolized. News America Marketing FSI has been competing aggressively for FSI business. As a consequence, FSI prices trended downward in 2006 compared to 2005, and we expect FSI prices to continue to trend downward in 2007 similar to the decline experienced in 2006 of approximately 10%. We cannot predict when, or if, FSI prices will stabilize or increase. While the cooperative FSI industry grew 1% in 2006, our FSI market share decreased. The combination of these factors has resulted in decreasing revenues and profitability for our FSI business. During the fourth quarter of 2005, and again in 2006, we renegotiated a contract with a major customer to extend FSI pricing similar to what had been provided by our competitor. Our renegotiation of existing contracts during 2006 with certain FSI customers as a result of the FSI pricing environment will also contribute to the pricing decline. When FSI contracts come up for renewal, we may not be able to renew them on favorable terms or at all. In addition, some of our competitors, particularly News America, have substantially greater financial resources than we do. Accordingly, these competitors may be better able to withstand changes in conditions within the industries in which we operate and may have significantly greater operating and financial flexibility than we do. These competitors could take a greater market share and cause us to lose business from our customers. In addition, it is possible that alternative media or changes in promotional strategies could make our products less attractive to our customers and could cause a loss of demand for our products and services. Our Market Delivered products also compete with several newspaper network groups in the ROP market. While entering the ROP market does not require a significant investment in machinery and equipment, it does require a significant investment in systems and people in order to compete effectively. An increase in the number of ROP competitors could result in a loss of market share. Our Neighborhood Targeted segment competes against commercial printers and media placement agencies for solo specialized promotional programs for single advertisers. While both types of competitors have a history of competing on the basis of price to increase volume and improve economies of scale, commercial printers tend to be particularly aggressive during periods when they have unused capacity. In addition, we compete with Sunflower Marketing with respect to our polybag advertising and sampling products. To the extent our competitors in these businesses decide to compete more aggressively on price due to excess capacity or for other reasons it could materially negatively affect our revenue and profit margins. 7 In our International & Services segment, our subsidiary, NCH Marketing Services, Inc., competes against Carolina Manufacturing Services and Carolina Services, both owned by Inmar, Inc., and International Outsourcing Services, LLC for coupon clearing and redemption services in the United States. To the extent that our competitors in this business decide to compete more aggressively on price, it could lower our market share and negatively affect our revenue and profit margin. Significant increases in the cost of paper, which are beyond our control, could adversely affect our financial health. We are dependent upon the availability of paper to print our customers’ advertising circulars. Paper costs have historically experienced significant fluctuations. We have a limited ability to protect ourselves from these fluctuations or to pass increased costs along to our customers. A significant portion of our paper requirements is purchased from three paper companies under long-term contracts. These contracts limit the amount of any increase or decrease (to approximately 10% in any twelve-month period) in our cost of paper purchased from these suppliers, which cost can be adjusted quarterly. As of January 1, 2007, approximately 85% of our FSI paper requirements were purchased pursuant to certain long-term paper contracts which limit our exposure with respect to the price of paper during the terms of those contracts. However, when these contracts expire at the end of 2008, we may not be able to replace them with favorable terms or at all. Significant increases in the cost of paper could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Significant increases in our media rates could adversely affect our financial performance. Currently, the largest cost component of our business is our media cost, which represents the payments that we make to newspapers for the insertion of our promotional materials. We have long-term contracts with certain newspapers providing for these services. When these newspaper contracts expire, we may not be able to replace them on favorable terms or at all. Further, ADVO’s existing competitive relationships with newspapers may negatively impact such negotiations. In addition, we may not be able to pass on to our customers any increases in our media costs. Any increase in media costs that we are unable to pass on to customers could adversely affect our results of operations. We currently rely on a single customer for a significant portion of our revenues. Many of our customers, particularly in our Market Delivered Products business segment, are packaged goods manufacturers. Our largest customer, Proctor & Gamble, or P&G, accounted for slightly more than 10% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006. In October 2005, P&G completed its purchase of Gillette. Shortly thereafter, P&G requested that its contract with us be renegotiated to reflect pricing similar to those contained in Gillette’s prior contract with one of our competitors, resulting in a decrease in the pricing contained in our contract with P&G. During 2006, given the FSI pricing environment we again reduced our FSI pricing to P&G. The loss of all or even a portion of the business attributed to P&G or a significant reduction in pricing could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. Because we self insure a number of our benefit plans, unexpected changes in claim trends may negatively impact our financial condition. We self-insure a significant portion of expected losses under our workers’ compensation program and medical benefits claims. Unexpected changes in claim trends, including the severity and frequency of claims, actuarial estimates and medical cost inflation could result in costs that are significantly different than initially reported. If future claims-related liabilities increase due to unforeseen circumstances, our self-insurance costs could increase significantly. The uncertainty of current economic and political conditions make budgeting and forecasting difficult and may reduce sales promotion spending. The future direction of the overall domestic and global economies could have a significant impact on our business. The potential for future terrorist attacks, increased global conflicts and the escalation of existing conflicts has created worldwide uncertainties that may have a negative impact on demand for our products. Because all components of our budgeting and forecasting, as well as that of our customers, are dependent upon estimates of growth in the markets served and demand for our products and services, the prevailing economic uncertainties may render estimates of future income and expenditures even more difficult to make than usual. Future events that may not have been anticipated could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 8 We may be unable to consummate our pending acquisition of ADVO. If we do consummate the pending acquisition, we will be required to incur a substantial amount of additional indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial health and make it more difficult for us to service our debt or obtain additional financing in the future, if necessary. Our pending acquisition of ADVO is expected to close in the first half of March 2007. However, the acquisition is subject to approval of the amended merger agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of ADVO common stock at a special meeting scheduled to be held on February 22, 2007 and the absence of any injunction or other legal restraint prohibiting the merger. These conditions may not be satisfied. If the merger is not completed for any reason, our reputation, results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. If we do consummate the proposed acquisition, we will be required to incur a substantial amount of additional indebtedness. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to meet those debt obligations, in which case we would default under the terms of the applicable financing agreements. Any such default would likely result in the acceleration of the repayment obligations to such lenders, as well as the acceleration of all of our outstanding debt. Our assets or cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay such debts, if accelerated, or we may not be able to refinance or restructure the payments on such debt. As a result, we could be forced into bankruptcy or litigation. Even if we are able to meet our debt service obligations, our substantial indebtedness could affect our financial health and limit our ability to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, or other purposes. If we are unable to obtain sufficient financing in order to consummate our pending merger with ADVO, we would be in default under the terms of the amended merger agreement and could be forced into bankruptcy or litigation. 9 The acquisition of ADVO is significantly larger than any other acquisition we have made to date and could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition if we are not able to successfully integrate the acquired business or if the expected benefits of the combination do not materialize. The ADVO acquisition is our largest and most significant acquisition to date. Due to, among other things, the size of the acquisition and the litigation history between us and ADVO related to the acquisition, we may be unable to integrate ADVO into our operations in an efficient, timely and effective manner, which would result in our not realizing some or all of the contemplated benefits of the acquisition, as well as increased costs. Successful integration will require, among other things, combining the two companies’ business development efforts, key personnel, information technology development, geographically separate facilities and business and executive cultures. Realization of the expected benefits of the acquisition, including certain cost synergies, will also require implementation of appropriate operations, management and financial reporting systems and controls. We may experience difficulties in effectively implementing these systems and integrating ADVO’s systems and operations, particularly in light of ADVO’s newly implemented SDR system. Many of the controls implemented in connection with the launch of SDR are predominantly manual. While these controls are and have been effective, they are subject to human error and require additional time and effort and have resulted in delays in ADVO’s accounting closing process. There is no assurance that such controls will be automated in a timely and effective manner or at all. In addition, integrating ADVO will be a complex and time consuming process and will require significant attention from management and other personnel, which may distract their attention from the day-to-day business of the combined company. The success of the acquisition will also depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated revenue and expense opportunities from combining the business of ADVO into our business and there is no assurance that our financial results will meet or exceed the financial results that would have been achieved absent the anticipated acquisition. If our integration of ADVO is not successful or if ADVO’s operations are less profitable than we currently anticipate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may fail to realize the benefits expected from the ADVO acquisition. If we fail to realize the expected benefits of the acquisition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Even if we are able to integrate our operations with those of ADVO successfully, we cannot assure you that we will realize the cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancement opportunities that we anticipate from such integration or that we will realize such benefits within our expected time frame. Our ability to realize anticipated cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements may be affected by a number of factors, including the following: • our ability to effectively eliminate redundant administrative overhead and overlapping personnel and rationalize printing capacity is difficult to predict; accordingly, the actual amount and timing of the resulting cost savings are inherently difficult to estimate; • we may incur significant cash integration costs in achieving these cost savings, and any cost savings and other synergies from the ADVO acquisition may be offset by such integration costs; • the cost savings and other synergies may be offset by increases in other expenses, by operating losses or by problems unrelated to the ADVO acquisition; and • labor cost savings depend on the avoidance of labor disruptions in connection with the integration of the businesses. These risk factors that may affect future performance and the accuracy of forward-looking statements are illustrative. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 10 