Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report, in evaluating the Company and our common stock. If any of the risks described below actually occurs, our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price could be materially adversely affected. Assets under management drive revenues and are subject to significant fluctuations. Our major sources of revenue are generally calculated as percentages of assets under management. Therefore, fluctuations in the value of assets under management have a direct correlation to the revenues of the Company. Assets under management are affected primarily by sales, redemptions, and changes in the securities markets globally. The economic environment has a direct impact on the investing activities of both retail and institutional investors. Investors in the open-end mutual funds that we manage may withdraw or redeem their investments at anytime. An increase in redemptions (withdrawals) by existing clients or a decline in sales of our investment products would decrease assets under management and consequently negatively impact revenue. Additionally, since we earn higher fees on some products, fluctuation in the mix of assets under management could negatively impact our results of operations. The financial markets have experienced a period of significant volatility over the past three years, which impacted asset outflows and the value of assets under management. Security markets may continue to experience weakness, volatility and disruption. Funds and portfolios that we manage related to certain geographic markets and industry sectors are vulnerable to political, social and economic events. If the security markets decline or continue to experience weakness or volatility, this would likely have a negative impact on our assets under management and our revenues. If our revenues decline without a commensurate reduction in our expenses, our net income will be reduced. Our historical consolidated financial information is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as a standalone company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. Our historical consolidated financial information prior to January 1, 2009 included in this Annual Report does not reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows we would have achieved as a standalone company during the periods presented or those we will achieve in the future. This is primarily a result of the following: • our historical financial information prior to January 1, 2009 reflects the assets and business of Goodwin; however, the Goodwin assets and business are no longer part of the Company following the spin-off; • our historical financial results prior to January 1, 2009 reflect allocations of corporate expenses from our former parent company, which may be different from the comparable expenses we would have actually incurred in prior years or will incur as a standalone company; • our current cost of debt and capitalization are different from that reflected in our historical consolidated financial statements prior to January 1, 2009; and • significant changes have occurred in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of our separation from our former parent company, including additional costs for us to establish our new operating infrastructure. Such costs include, but are not limited to, (i) additional employees required to perform tasks previously handled by PNX, (ii) a new board of directors for our company, (iii) standalone insurance coverage, (iv) standalone audit, legal and other professional services and costs and (v) costs associated with standalone SEC reporting and compliance. Poor investment performance of our products could adversely affect our assets under management, sales, revenues and earnings. The performance of our investment products is critical to our success. While positive performance can increase our sales and total assets under management (and hence our revenues and earnings), negative performance individually or in comparison to competing products could have a negative effect in the following ways: reduction of fee revenue by the reduction in assets under management, decrease in sales of our investment products, withdrawal of assets by existing clients from our investment products, and increasing the risk of litigation and regulatory action. 11 Table of Contents Net flows related to our investment management strategies can be affected by investment performance relative to other investment management companies. Our investment management strategies are rated or ranked by independent third parties and individual distribution partners, and many industry periodicals and services provide assessments of the relative performance of our strategies. These assessments often affect the investment decisions of customers. If the relative performance or assessments of our strategies decline materially, the assets under management related to these strategies may decrease as customers select strategies with better performance. Our ability to continue to satisfy financial covenants under our existing credit facility is dependent upon our continued positive operating results and investment performance, which cannot be assured. Under the Company’s senior secured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”), the Company must maintain certain financial covenants. A summary of the Credit Facility terms and financial covenants is included in this report under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” There can be no assurance that at all times in the future we will satisfy all such financial covenants or obtain any required waiver or amendment, in which event all outstanding indebtedness could become immediately due. This could result in a substantial reduction in the liquidity of the Company and could challenge our ability to meet future cash needs of the business. Our ability to meet all future cash needs is dependent upon our operating results, our access to financing, our ability to raise capital, and our continued ability to generate working capital and positive cash flows. We may need to raise additional capital or refinance existing debt in the future, and financing may not be available to us in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms. Our ability to meet the future cash needs of the Company is dependent upon our ability to generate cash or obtain financing. Although the Company has been successful in generating sufficient cash in the past, it may not be successful in the future. Additionally, global credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil, and these events have adversely impacted the availability and cost of credit. If additional financing becomes necessary to fund operations, fund new business initiatives, refinance our existing Credit Facility or for any other purpose, there can be no assurance that such financing would be available on favorable terms or at all, given the continued weakness in the credit markets and our limited operating history as a standalone public company. Our ability to access capital markets efficiently depends on a number of factors, including the state of global credit and equity markets, interest rates, credit spreads and our credit ratings. If we are unable to access capital markets to issue new debt, refinance existing debt or sell shares of our Common Stock as needed, or if we are unable to obtain such financing on acceptable terms, our business could be adversely impacted. Our business operations, investment returns and profitability could be adversely impacted by inadequate performance of third parties. We are dependent on certain third-party relationships to maintain essential business operations. These services include, but are not limited to, information technology infrastructure, mutual fund and investment accounting services, transfer agent and cash management services, custodial services and security pricing services. In addition, we maintain contractual relationships with certain unaffiliated investment management firms to sub-advise our portfolios. At December 31, 2010, $12.1 billion or 41% of our assets under management were managed by unaffiliated sub-advisors. We periodically negotiate provisions and renewals of these contracts and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain consistent. Any material disruption, deficiency or increase in the cost of these contracted services could materially affect our business operations and profitability. Any damage to our reputation could harm our business and lead to a loss of assets under management, revenues and income. Maintaining a strong reputation with the investment community is critical to our success. Our reputation is vulnerable to many threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or impossible to remediate even if they are without merit or satisfactorily addressed. Any damage to our reputation could impede our ability to attract and retain clients and key personnel, and lead to a reduction in the amount of our assets under management, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and income. Our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of key employees. The success of our business is dependent to a large extent on our ability to attract and retain key employees such as 12 Table of Contents senior executives, portfolio managers, securities analysts and sales personnel. Competition in the job market for these professionals is generally intense. Most of our employees are not subject to employment contracts or non-compete agreements so they may voluntarily terminate their employment at any time. Any inability to retain our key employees, attract qualified employees or replace key employee positions in a timely manner when vacated, could have a negative impact on our business. There could be additional costs to replace, retain or attract new talent which would result in a decrease in net income. Clients, distribution partners and fund boards could terminate or amend their contracts with us and our open-end fund investors may redeem their investments in those funds at any time, any of which could reduce our revenues and earnings. Each of the mutual funds and closed-end funds for which we act as investment advisor or sub-advisor is registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “Investment Company Act”) and is governed by a board of trustees or board of directors. Each fund’s contract is renewed annually by the fund’s board. Either the board members or, in limited circumstances, the shareholders may terminate an advisory contract with us and move the assets to another investment advisor. In certain situations, such as a “change in control” of an advisor, advisory contracts may terminate. The board members also may deem it to be in the best interests of a fund’s shareholders to make other decisions adverse to us, such as reducing the compensation paid to us, requesting that we subsidize fund expenses over certain thresholds or imposing restrictions on our management of the fund. Our investment management agreements with intermediary program sponsors, private clients and institutional clients may be terminated upon short notice without penalty. As a result, there would be little impediment to these sponsors or clients terminating our agreements if they became dissatisfied with our performance. Our contracts with our funds, intermediary program sponsors, managed account clients and institutional investment management clients could from time to time be subject to varying interpretations of key terms, resulting in perceived or actual requirements to amend such contracts. In such circumstances, we could be subject to adverse outcomes resulting from our need to resolve such matters. In addition, open-end fund investors may redeem their investments in those funds at any time without prior notice and the pace of mutual fund redemptions may accelerate in a declining stock market. The termination or amendment of any of the above agreements or redemption of investments relating to a material portion of assets under management would adversely affect our investment management fee revenues and earnings and could possibly require us to take a charge to earnings as a result of the impairment of the goodwill or intangible assets associated with our asset managers. We face strong competition in our businesses from mutual fund companies, banks and investment management firms, which could impair our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and maintain our profitability. We face strong competition in our businesses. We believe that our ability to compete is based on a number of factors, including, but not limited, to investment performance, service, reputation, distribution capabilities, product mix and fees charged. We are also highly dependent on our distribution relationships. Our actual and potential competitors include a large number of mutual fund companies, banks and investment management firms, many of which have advantages over us. Industry consolidation has resulted in larger competitors with financial resources, marketing and distribution capabilities, and brand identities that are stronger than ours. Larger firms also may be able to offer, due to economies of scale, lower cost products. In addition, new or alternative product offerings frequently emerge or may increase in popularity, such as electronically traded funds, which could create additional competition and could result in decreased demand for our historical product offerings. If we do not compete effectively in this environment, our profitability and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. We are subject to extensive, complex and frequently changing regulations and legal interpretations. Changes in regulations could limit the sources and amounts of our revenues, increase our costs of doing business, decrease our profitability and materially and adversely affect our business. We are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as regulation by the SEC, FINRA and other federal and state agencies and self-regulatory organizations (including NASDAQ). In addition, the Company must comply with the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act enacted in 2010. Each advisor (including unaffiliated sub-advisors) 13 Table of Contents is registered with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act. Each closed-end fund and open-end fund is registered with the SEC under the Investment Company Act. Our broker-dealer, VPD, is registered with the SEC under the Exchange Act and is a member of FINRA. All of our funds currently available for sale are qualified in all 50 states, Washington, D.C., Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Most aspects of our investment management business, including the business of the sub-advisors, are subject to various federal and state laws and regulations. These laws generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies the power to limit or restrict us and any sub-advisor from carrying on its investment management business in the event that it fails to comply with such laws and regulations. Sanctions may include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on our investment management activities for specified periods of time, the revocation of the advisors’ registrations as investment advisors or other censures and fines. Although we spend substantial time and resources on our compliance policies, procedures and practices, non-compliance with applicable statutes, laws, rules, regulations and other requirements or our inability to timely and properly modify and update our compliance policies, procedures and practices to this frequently changing and highly complex regulatory environment, could result in our being subject to sanctions, fines, penalties, cease and desist or other relief, license revocation, suspensions or even expulsion from particular activities or markets. Compliance with these laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws, regulations and legal interpretations may increase materially our direct and indirect compliance costs and other expenses of doing business, thus having an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Legal and regulatory actions are inherent in our businesses and could result in financial losses or harm to our businesses. We are at various times involved in litigation and arbitration. In addition, various regulatory bodies regularly make inquiries of us and, from time to time, conduct examinations or investigations concerning our compliance with, among other things, securities laws and laws governing the activities of broker-dealers. At various times we and our employees have also been subject to other claims alleging violations of rules and regulations of the SEC, FINRA and other regulatory authorities. Alleged misconduct by an employee, sub-advisor or distribution partner could be determined to be a violation of law resulting in regulatory sanctions or claims for damages against the Company or could result in significant reputational or financial harm. There has been a significant increase in federal and state regulatory activity relating to financial services companies. We may be subject to further related or unrelated inquiries or actions in the future. Uncertain economic conditions and heightened volatility in the financial markets, such as those which have been experienced over the past few years, may increase the likelihood that clients, regulators or other persons may present or threaten legal claims or that regulators increase the scope or frequency of their examination of the Company or the investment management industry in general. There can be no assurance that our assessment of any claim or regulatory inquiry or proceeding will reflect the ultimate outcome and the outcome of any particular matter may be material to our operating results for a particular period. It is not feasible to predict or determine the ultimate outcome of all legal or regulatory proceedings or to provide reasonable ranges of potential losses. Because of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of any legal claims or regulatory inquiries or other matters, we cannot provide assurance as to the outcome of this or other pending or future matters, or if ultimately determined adversely to us, the loss, expense or other amounts or sanctions attributable to such matter, particularly where the matter presents complex or new or unsettled claims or legal theories. The resolution of such matter or matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. While we maintain insurance that we believe is appropriate relative to our business and the potential claims and liabilities to which we may be exposed, we cannot be assured that insurance will cover all of our potential liabilities or losses. Some regulatory and other liabilities or penalties are not generally covered by insurance. In addition, insurance coverage may become more costly and require higher deductibles or co-insurance arrangements. Should this occur, it would expose us to greater non-insured losses, increase our expenses and negatively impact our earnings. Changes in tax laws, exposures to additional income tax liabilities or limitations on tax attributes currently available to the Company could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We are subject to federal and state income taxes in the United States. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of 14 Table of Contents these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could be unfavorable. Results of tax audits, changes in tax laws or tax rulings could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our ability to utilize tax attributes currently available to us is limited under section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (“Section 382”). Section 382 imposes annual limitations on the amount of net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes that can be used to offset taxable income in the event an ownership change has occurred. An ownership change, as defined by Section 382, is triggered by substantial changes in the ownership of our outstanding stock, which are generally outside of our control. We currently have limitations as a result of Section 382 and could experience additional, more restrictive limitations in the event another ownership change occurs. In addition, our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes available to us will be dependent on our ability to generate taxable income. Changes in tax law or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate. There are recent proposals which, if enacted, could increase the amount of taxes we are required to pay and have a significant adverse affect on our future results of operations and net income. We distribute funds and managed accounts through intermediary channels and a loss of key distribution relationships could reduce our revenues and earnings. Intermediary distribution channels account for a substantial portion of our sales and of our assets under management. Our success in our intermediary distribution channel depends upon our continuing to maintain strong relationships with third-party intermediaries. Any material reduction in these distribution relationships would impact the sales of our products, our assets under management and our revenues. In addition, these intermediaries generally offer their customers a significant array of investment products which are in addition to, and which compete with, our own investment products, and there is no assurance that these intermediaries or their customers may not favor competing investment products over those we offer. Further, consolidation in the financial services industry, of which our distribution channels are a part, could negatively impact future relationships and distribution channels and, therefore, our assets under management and results of operations. Our intangible assets could become impaired which could have an adverse impact on our results from operations. At December 31, 2010, the Company had total assets of $148.9 million which included $57.8 million of goodwill and other intangible assets. We cannot be certain that we will ever realize the value of such intangible assets. It could be necessary to recognize impairment of these assets should we experience significant decreases in assets under management, the termination of one or more material investment management contracts or material outflows if clients withdraw their assets following the departure of a key employee or for any other reasons. Any failure to comply with established client investment guidelines or other contractual requirements could result in claims from clients and regulatory sanctions. The agreements under which we manage assets often have established investment guidelines or other contractual requirements that we are required to comply with in providing our investment management services. Any allegation of a failure to comply with these guidelines or other requirement could result in client claims, hurt reputation, withdrawal of assets, and potential regulatory sanctions, any of which may negatively impact our revenues and earnings. We or our key vendors could experience temporary business interruptions in our technology infrastructure which would negatively impact our operations, operating expenses and net income. Our technology systems are critical to our operations and any failure or interruption of those systems or of our operations, whether resulting from technology or infrastructure breakdowns, defects or external causes such as fire, natural disaster or power disruptions, could result in financial loss and impact our reputation, growth and prospects. Although we have in place disaster recovery plans, we may experience temporary interruptions if a natural disaster or prolonged power outages were to occur which could have a material negative impact on operations. 15 Table of Contents The relatively limited trading volume of our common stock as well as the concentration of shares owned by a limited number of shareholders could lead to our stock trading at prices that are significantly lower than what might be expected of issuers with our market capitalization as well as larger purchases and sales may more dramatically affect our share price. A large percentage of our stock is held by a limited number of shareholders. If our larger shareholders decide to liquidate their positions, it could cause significant fluctuation in the share price. Public companies with relatively small market capitalizations, such as we have, often have difficulty generating trading volume in their stock. This illiquidity and our size can result in relative price discounts as compared to industry peers or to the stock’s inherent value. It can also result in limited or no research analyst coverage, the absence of which makes it difficult for a company to establish and hold a market following. The market price of our common stock may also fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including: • general economic, market and political conditions; • quarterly variations in our results of operations or financial position or the fact that our results of operations or financial position could be below the expectations of the public market, analysts or investors; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; • operating and market price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable; • press releases or publicity relating to us or our competitors or relating to trends in our markets; • large purchases or sales of our common stock by significant shareholders; and • purchases or sales of our common stock by insiders. In addition, broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as investor perception and the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock, may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Our rights plan and applicable laws may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. Under our stockholders’ rights agreement, if any person or group (other than Bank of Montreal and its controlled affiliates) acquires, or begins a tender or exchange offer that could result in such person acquiring 15% or more of our common stock without approval by our board under specified circumstances, our other stockholders will have the right to purchase shares of our common stock, or shares of the acquiring company, at a substantial discount to the public market price. In addition, provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law also restrict certain business combinations with interested stockholders. The Delaware General Corporation Law and our stockholders’ rights agreement may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. The agreements the Company entered into in connection with the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock investment made by Harris Bankcorp contains restrictions that could limit our ability to issue additional equity or to obtain additional equity financing. The approval of the holders of our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock is required to affect certain significant issuances of equity securities of the Company or any of its controlled subsidiaries. Such required approval may restrict our ability to carry out our business objectives. It may also preclude us from opportunities such as acquisitions that could supplement and grow our business. The voting power of the holders of our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock may discourage third party acquisitions of the Company at a premium. We are required to obtain the approval of holders of our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock for any merger, consolidation, acquisition, and business combination, sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or its 16 Table of Contents subsidiaries, or any similar transaction or pledge of assets, in certain circumstances until December 31, 2011. This may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire control of the Company and may preclude holders of Company common stock from receiving any premium above market price for their shares that may otherwise be offered in connection with any attempt to acquire control of the Company. For further information, restrictions and obligations concerning our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —Series B Convertible Preferred Stock” and the Certificate of Designations and Investment Agreement filed as Exhibits 3.4 and 10.9 to this Form 10-K. Our outstanding Series B Convertible Preferred Stock may be converted into common stock, in the future, which would increase the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market. This might have an adverse effect on the market price of the common stock. As of December 31, 2010, 35,217 shares of our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock were outstanding. Each outstanding share of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock is currently convertible into 38.3139 shares of common stock, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments. Holders of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock may convert any or all of their shares into shares of common stock of the Company at any time. In the event that the holders of a majority of the outstanding Series B Convertible Preferred Stock approve a conversion of the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock, all of the shares of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock will be converted automatically into shares of common stock of the Company. During the fourth quarter of 2010, a conversion feature of the Preferred Stock agreement was triggered when the Company’s common stock exceeded 175% of the then applicable conversion price for twenty days in which the common stock was traded. As a result of this triggering event, the Company may elect to cause each share of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock to be converted into shares of common stock of the Company at the conversion rate in effect. However, if the Company makes such an election, holders of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock may alternatively elect to retain their shares of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock and forfeit their right to thereafter participate in any dividends paid on our common stock while they continue to hold the preferred shares. The Company has not made this election as of the date of this filing. To the extent shares of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock are converted, additional shares of our common stock will be issued, and would increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. SPECIAL NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report contains statements, including under the captions “Business,” “Risk Factors,” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” that are, or may be considered to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. All statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our beliefs or expectations, are forward-looking statements. These statements may be identified by such forward-looking terminology as “expect,” “estimate,” “plan,” “intend,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “may,” “should,” “could,” “continue,” “project” or similar statements or variations of such terms. Our forward-looking statements are based on a series of expectations, assumptions and projections about our Company, are not guarantees of future results or performance, and involve substantial risks and uncertainty, including assumptions and projections concerning our assets under management, net cash inflows and outflows, operating cash flows, and future credit facilities, for all forward periods. All of our forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report are as of the date of this Annual Report only. The Company can give no assurance that such expectations or forward-looking statements will prove to be correct. Actual results may differ materially. The Company does not undertake or plan to update or revise any such forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changes in plans, assumptions, estimates or projections, or other circumstances occurring after the date of this Annual Report, even if such results, changes or circumstances make it clear that any forward-looking information will not be realized. If there are any future public statements or disclosures by us which modify or impact any of the forward-looking statements contained in or accompanying this Annual Report, such statements or disclosures will be deemed to modify or supersede such statements in this Annual Report. 17 Table of Contents Our business and our forward-looking statements involve substantial known and unknown risks and uncertainties, including those discussed under “Risk Factors,” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this Annual Report, as well as the following risks and uncertainties: (a) the effects of adverse market and economic developments, including those related to global economic, political or social instability, on all aspects of our business; (b) any poor relative investment performance of our investment management strategies and any resulting outflows of assets; (c) any lack of availability of additional financing, as may be needed, on satisfactory terms or at all; (d) any inadequate performance of third-party relationships; (e) the withdrawal of assets from under our management; (f) our ability to attract and retain key personnel in a competitive environment; (g) the ability of independent trustees of our mutual funds and closed-end funds and other clients to terminate their relationships with us; (h) the possibility that our goodwill or intangible assets could become impaired, requiring a charge to earnings; (i) the increased competition we face in our business, including competition related to investment products and fees; (j) potential adverse regulatory and legal developments; (k) the difficulty of detecting misconduct by our employees, sub-advisors and distribution partners; (l) changes in accounting standards or rules, including the impact of proposed rules which may be promulgated related to Rule 12b-1 fees; (m) the ability to satisfy the financial covenants under existing debt agreements; and (n) certain other risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report or in any of our other filings with the SEC. An occurrence of, or any material adverse change in, one or more of the risk factors or risks and uncertainties referred to in this Annual Report or included in our other periodic reports filed with the SEC could materially and adversely affect our operations, financial results, cash flows, prospects, and liquidity. Other factors which may impact our continuing operations, prospects, financial results and liquidity or which may cause actual results to differ from such forward-looking statements are discussed or included in the Company’s periodic reports filed with the SEC and are available on the our website at www.virtus.com under “Investor Relations.” You are urged to carefully consider all such factors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 