Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion of risk factors contains “forward-looking statements,” as discussed in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” or MD&A. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Item 1. “Business,” Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our businesses routinely encounter and address risks, some of which will cause our future results to be different -sometimes materially different—than we presently anticipate. Discussion about important operational risks that our businesses encounter can be found in the MD&A section and in the business descriptions in Item 1. “Business” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Below, we describe certain factors affecting our operations and future financial performance. Our reactions to material future developments as well as our competitors’ reactions to those developments will affect our future results. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and make it more difficult for us to service our debt or obtain additional financing, if necessary. We incurred a substantial level of debt in connection with our acquisition of ADVO in 2007. This high degree of leverage could have a material adverse effect on our business and make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. As a result of our significant amount of debt and debt service obligations, we face increased risks regarding, among other things, the following: • our ability to borrow additional amounts or refinance existing indebtedness in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, investments, stock repurchases, execution of our growth strategy, or other purposes may be limited or such financing may be more costly; • we have reduced availability of cash flow to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, investments, acquisitions or other strategic initiatives and other general corporate purposes because a substantial portion of our cash flow is needed to pay principal and interest on our debt; • we are more vulnerable to competitive pressures and to general adverse economic or industry conditions, including fluctuations in market interest rates or a downturn in our business; • we have limited flexibility in implementing our existing or any new business strategy or planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, our industry or general economic conditions; • we face increased exposure to rising interest rates as a portion of our debt is at variable interest rates; • we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors that have greater financial resources than us, including News Corporation; • it may be more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; and • there could be a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition if we were unable to service our debt or obtain additional financing, as needed. In addition, the indentures governing our 8 1/4% Senior Notes due 2015, or the 2015 Notes, and our Senior Secured Convertible Notes due 2033, or the 2033 Secured Notes, and our senior secured credit facility contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay such debt, if accelerated, or that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on such debt. See “—The restrictive covenants in our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the 2015 Notes and the 2033 Secured Notes and any of the agreements governing our future indebtedness could adversely restrict our financial and operating flexibility and subject us to other risks.” 8 Despite our current indebtedness levels and the restrictive covenants set forth in the agreements governing our indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more indebtedness. This could increase the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. The terms of our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the 2015 Notes and the 2033 Secured Notes permit us and certain of our subsidiaries to incur certain additional indebtedness, including additional secured indebtedness. If we or our subsidiaries are in compliance with the financial covenants set forth in these agreements, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness. In addition, under certain circumstances we will have the right to increase the size of our senior secured credit facility. If new debt is added to our or our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify. We may not be able to generate a sufficient amount of cash flow to meet our debt obligations. Our ability to make scheduled payments with respect to our indebtedness depends on our future financial and operating performance and ability to refinance debt when necessary. Each of these factors largely depends on prevailing economic conditions and certain financial, business, competitive and other factors beyond our control. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result, holders of our debt could declare all outstanding principal and interest on our debt to be due and payable and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Furthermore, if our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to reduce or delay scheduled expansions and capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital, restructure our debt or revise or delay our strategic plans. We cannot assure you that our operating performance, cash flow and capital resources will be sufficient for payment of our debt in the future. If we are required to take any of the actions referred to above, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions on terms acceptable to us, or at all, that these actions would enable us to continue to satisfy our capital requirements or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our various debt instruments. In addition, any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. Our diminished liquidity could adversely affect our financial condition and make it more difficult to fund our operations and satisfy our debt obligations. The indentures governing our 2015 Notes, our 2033 Secured Notes and our senior secured credit facility contain affirmative and negative covenants, including maintaining specified financial ratios and satisfying other financial conditions. It is possible that in the future we may not be able to comply with the covenants, limitations and restrictions under these agreements or other outstanding loan agreements. In that event, we will be required to seek an amendment or waiver from the lenders under such agreements. If we are unable to obtain an amendment or waiver, the lenders thereunder would have the right to exercise remedies specified in the loan agreements, including foreclosing on certain collateral and accelerating the maturity of the loans, which could result in the acceleration of substantially all of our outstanding indebtedness. In such a situation, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain alternative financing. In addition, if we are determined to be in default of these loan agreements, we may be prohibited from drawing additional funds under our senior secured credit facility, which could impair our ability to maintain sufficient working capital. Either situation could also have a material adverse effect on our solvency. The restrictive covenants in our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the 2015 Notes and the 2033 Secured Notes and any of the agreements governing our future indebtedness could adversely restrict our financial and operating flexibility and subject us to other risks. Our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our 2015 Notes and our 2033 Secured Notes contain affirmative and negative covenants that limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to take certain actions. Our senior secured credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial conditions. Our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the 2015 Notes and the 2033 Secured Notes also restrict, among other things, our and our subsidiaries’ ability to: • incur additional debt; • pay dividends and make other restricted payments; 9 • make certain investments, loans and advances; • create or permit certain liens; • issue or sell capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; • use the proceeds from sales of assets and subsidiary stock; • enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; • create or permit restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and • sell all or substantially all of our assets or consolidate or merge with or into other companies. These restrictions may limit our ability to operate our business and may prohibit or limit our ability to enhance our operations, take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise or meet our capital needs. Furthermore, future debt instruments or other contracts could contain financial or other covenants more restrictive than those applicable to our senior secured credit facility, the 2033 Secured Notes or the 2015 Notes. The breach of any of these covenants by us or the failure by us to meet any of these conditions or requirements could result in a default under any or all of such indebtedness. Our ability to continue to comply with these covenants and requirements may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. An event of default under our debt agreements could trigger events of default under our other debt agreements and the holders of the defaulted debt could declare all of the amounts outstanding thereunder, together with accrued interest, to become immediately due and payable. If such acceleration occurs, we would not be able to repay our debt and we may not be able to borrow sufficient funds to refinance our debt. Even if new financing is made available to us, it may not be on terms acceptable to us. Counterparties to our secured credit facility and interest rate swaps may not be able to fulfill their obligations due to disruptions in the global credit markets. As a result of concerns about the stability of the markets and the strength of counterparties during this challenging global macroeconomic environment, many financial institutions have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Based on information available to us, we have no indication that the financial institutions syndicated under our senior secured credit facility would be unable to fulfill their commitments to us. We may be exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on these instruments. Continued turbulence in the global credit markets and the U.S. economy may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Recent disruptions in the credit markets have made it more difficult for companies to secure financing. If we are unable to access financing on terms and at a time acceptable to us for any reason, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. We believe that we have sufficient liquidity to support the ongoing activities of our business, repay our existing debt obligations and to make limited investments in future growth opportunities. Our ability to obtain any financing or refinancing, whether through the issuance of new equity or debt securities or otherwise, and the terms of any such financing are dependent on, among other things, our financial condition, financial market conditions within our industry and generally, credit ratings and numerous other factors. Recently, credit markets have experienced unusual uncertainty, and liquidity and access to capital markets and other sources of financing have tightened. Consequently, in the event we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time, if at all. If we are unable to obtain financing on terms and within a time acceptable to us it could, in addition to other negative effects, have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. 10 Some of our debt, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facility, is based on variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of an increase in interest rates. As of December 31, 2008, $610.7 million of our $1,202.6 million aggregate indebtedness was subject to variable interest rates. We have entered into two interest rate swap agreements which fix the interest rate for an aggregate of $480.0 million of this variable rate debt. Our swap agreements have a notional value of $480.0 million and, effectively, fix our interest rate at 6.795% and expire in December 2010. Our remaining variable rate debt of $130.7 million is subject to market rate risk, as our interest payments will fluctuate as the underlying interest rates change as a result of market changes. During the period when our interest rate swap agreements are effective, a 1% change in interest rates would result in a change in interest expense of approximately $1.3 million per year. If there is a rise in interest rates, our debt service obligations on our variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, which would affect our cash flows and results of operations. If we borrow additional amounts under the revolving portion of our senior secured credit facility, our market rate risk may increase. Reductions of our credit rating may have an adverse impact on our business. The ratings on our outstanding debt currently established by the ratings agencies may be reduced for various reasons, including if we incur additional indebtedness, reasons related to our industry or operating performance or as a result of changes by the rating agencies in their methodologies or rating criteria. Reductions on our credit ratings could negatively impact our cost of funds, access to capital markets, ability to renew contracts with our existing customers and limit our ability to compete for new customers. Further, certain of our supplier contracts provide that, in the event our credit ratings are downgraded to specified levels, the customer may elect to terminate its contract with us and either pay a reduced termination fee or, in some limited instances, no termination fee, or, in the alternative, request additional collateral or change our credit terms. A credit rating downgrade could adversely affect these customer and supplier relationships. The recent economic downturn and uncertain future outlook, including the credit and liquidity crisis in the financial markets, could continue to further negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business results could be adversely affected by a prolonged global, national or regional economic recession. As a result of the credit and liquidity crisis in the U.S. and throughout the global financial system, substantial volatility in world capital markets and the banking industry has occurred. The unprecedented current economic volatility and the tightening of credit markets has resulted in widespread reduction in business activity and consumer spending. From an operational perspective, we have been experiencing lower revenues as a result of reduced consumer confidence and reduced advertising spending in our markets, as well as increased bad debt expense. From a financing perspective, this unprecedented instability and the tightening of the credit markets may adversely affect the ability of our customers to obtain credit which may restrict their ability to purchase our products and services. Additionally, it may make it difficult for us to access the credit market and to obtain financing or refinancing, as the case may be, on satisfactory terms or at all. The difficult economic conditions are not likely to improve significantly in the near future and any continuation or worsening of these conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Increased competition could reduce the demand for our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. Our products that reach a large area at low cost compete in the cooperative FSI business principally with News America Marketing FSI, a company owned by The News Corporation. We compete for business primarily on the basis of price, category availability, targeting ability and customer service and relationships. News America Marketing FSI has been competing aggressively for FSI business. As a consequence, FSI prices have declined substantially over the last several years and are expected to continue to decline in the foreseeable future. We cannot predict when, or if, FSI prices will stabilize or increase. This, coupled with flat industry units, has resulted generally in decreasing revenues and profitability for our FSI segment. When FSI contracts come up for renewal, we may not be able to renew them on favorable terms or at all. In addition, our primary competitor, News America, has substantially greater financial resources than we do and may be better able to withstand changes in conditions within the industries in which we operate and may have significantly greater operating and financial flexibility than we do. This competitor could take a greater market share and cause us to lose business from our customers. 11 In addition, it is possible that alternative media or changes in promotional strategies could make our products less attractive to our customers and could cause a loss of demand for our products and services. Our Shared Mail segment’s media business faces intense competition based primarily on the ability to target selected potential customers on a cost-effective basis and provide a satisfactory return on advertising investment. Shared Mail products also compete for advertising dollars against other forms of print and electronic media and other advertising in general. Competition for market share advertising also comes from magazines, radio, broadcast and cable television, shoppers, the Internet, other communications media and other advertising printers that operate in Shared Mail markets. The extent and nature of such competition are, in large part, determined by the location and demographics of the markets targeted by a particular advertiser and the number of media alternatives in those markets. Shared Mail customers and prospective customers are operating with lower advertising budgets, while trying to allocate their spending across a growing number of media channels. They are increasingly faced with the challenge of doing more with less. The failure to develop new products and services could result in the loss of clients to current or future competitors. In addition, failure to gain market acceptance of new products and services could adversely affect growth. Our Neighborhood Targeted segment competes against commercial printers and media placement agencies for solo specialized promotional programs for single advertisers. While both types of competitors have a history of competing on the basis of price to increase volume and improve economies of scale, commercial printers tend to be particularly aggressive during periods when they have unused capacity. In addition, we compete with Sunflower Marketing with respect to our polybag advertising and sampling products. To the extent our competitors in these businesses decide to compete more aggressively on price due to excess capacity or for other reasons it could materially negatively affect our revenue and profit margins. Our Neighborhood Targeted products also compete with several newspaper network groups in the ROP market. While entering the ROP market does not require a significant investment in machinery and equipment, it does require a significant investment in systems and human resources in order to compete effectively. An increase in the number of ROP competitors could result in a loss of market share. In our International, Digital Media & Services segment, our subsidiary, NCH Marketing Services, Inc., competes against Carolina Manufacturing Services and Carolina Services, both owned by Inmar, Inc., and International Outsourcing Services, LLC for coupon clearing and redemption services in the U.S. To the extent that our competitors in this business decide to compete more aggressively on price, it could lower our market share and negatively affect our revenues and profit margin. Our Shared Mail segment depends on the USPS and other third parties for delivery of its products. If such third parties do not fulfill their obligations, our Shared Mail segment may lose customers and experience reduced revenue and profitability. Our Shared Mail segment’s products are primarily delivered through the USPS. Postage expense is our Shared Mail segment’s largest expense. The inability of the USPS to deliver our Shared Mail segment’s products on a timely basis or any reduction in the number of days the USPS delivers mail could disrupt our Shared Mail segment’s business and, in turn, adversely affect our business, sales, results of operation and financial condition. Furthermore, USPS rates increase periodically and we have no control over increases that may occur in the future. An increase in the cost of postage combined with our Shared Mail segment’s inability to successfully pass through such postage rate increase directly to its customers could negatively affect our earnings. Significant increases in the cost of paper, which are beyond our control, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent upon the availability of paper to print our customers’ advertising circulars. Paper costs have historically experienced significant fluctuations. We currently do not have long-term contracts with paper companies and are therefore subject to variable market prices for paper. Changes in the supply of, or demand for, paper could affect market prices or delivery times. We do not engage in hedging activities to limit our exposure to increases in paper prices and we have a limited ability to pass increased costs along to our customers. In the future, the price of paper may fluctuate significantly due to changes in supply and demand. We cannot assure you that we will have access to paper in the necessary amounts or at reasonable prices or that any increases in paper costs would not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 12 The possibility of consolidation in our customer base, the loss of customers to alternative advertising methods or decreases in the frequency or amount of customers’ mailings could impact our revenue growth and profitability. In recent years there has been a growing trend toward retailer consolidation. As a result of this consolidation, the number of retailers to which we sell our products and services may decline and lead to a decrease in our revenues. In addition, we may lose customers due to the acquisition of such customers by companies that are not interested in using our products and services or that eliminate retail locations of our existing customers. Also, a customer may decide to decrease its mailing frequency or modify the amount, pages and weight, and kind of advertising pieces it purchases from us, especially in light of the prolonged economic downturn. Our customers may be impacted by the items detailed above and by other general economic and business conditions that could affect their demand for our products and services and, in turn, choose other alternative advertising methods. Specifically, significant revenue changes in our Shared Mail segment may have a corresponding impact to profit due to the fixed cost nature of postage expense. Postage costs associated with advertising packages are fixed in nature for packages that weigh 3.3 ounces or less, whether or not the package is partially or completely filled. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on us and our financial condition. Our clients may be susceptible to changes in general economic conditions. Our revenues are affected by our clients’ marketing spending and advertising budgets. Our revenues and results of operations may be subject to fluctuations based upon general economic conditions in the geographic locations where we offer services or distribute content. A continued economic downturn or a continued recession in these geographic locations may reduce demand for our products and services or depress pricing of those products and services and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in global economic conditions could also shift demand to products and services for which we do not have competitive advantages, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. In addition, if we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and political conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, and our business could be negatively affected. We depend on vendors to timely supply us with quality materials at the right prices. Global economic and political conditions may affect our vendors. A prolonged economic downturn could limit their ability to timely provide us with acceptable materials at affordable prices. Our inability to acquire suitable materials on acceptable terms or the loss of key vendors could negatively affect our financial performance. We have been required to recognize a pre-tax, non-cash impairment charge related to goodwill and other intangible assets, and we may be required to recognize additional impairment charges against goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets in the future. At December 31, 2008, the net carrying value of our intangible assets and goodwill totaled approximately $251.5 million and $640.9 million, respectively. Our intangible assets are subject to impairment testing in accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived Assets, and our goodwill is subject to impairment tests in accordance with SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. We review the carrying value of our intangible assets and goodwill for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. Significant negative industry or economic trends, including the market price of our common stock or the fair value of our debt, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in the use of the intangible assets, and mergers and acquisitions could result in an impairment charge for any of our intangible assets, goodwill or other long-lived assets. As a result of the decline in the trading value of our equity securities during the three months ended December 31, 2008 and continuing negative industry and economic trends that have directly affected our business, we performed impairment tests as of December 31, 2008 of our goodwill and intangible assets in accordance with SFAS No. 142 and SFAS No. 144, respectively. We used certain estimates and assumptions in our impairment evaluations, including, but not limited to, projected future cash flows, revenue growth and customer attrition levels. As a result of this testing, we recorded a $245.7 million pre-tax, non-cash impairment charge related to goodwill and other intangible assets in the last quarter of 2008. This impairment charge represented an adjustment of $226.9 million to the carrying value of the goodwill and intangible assets associated with our purchase of ADVO in 2007 and a write-off of $18.8 million of goodwill associated with our purchase and subsequent sale of Prevision, our one-to-one loyalty marketing business purchased in 2000. The impairment charge is included within costs and expenses on the consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2008. 13 If the trading value of our equity securities continues to decline, we will be required to assess the fair values of our assets and liabilities and could conclude that goodwill is impaired, which would result in additional impairment charges in 2009. In addition, if economic conditions in certain of our markets do not improve, we will be required to assess the recoverability of long-lived and intangible assets, which could result in additional impairment charges. Any additional impairment charge related to our intangible assets, other long-lived assets or goodwill could have a significant effect on our financial position and results of operations in the periods recognized. ADVO is currently faced with a class action lawsuit, the litigation and outcome of which may be detrimental to our financial condition, and there is potential that subsequent lawsuits will be filed. In September 2006, three securities class action lawsuits were filed against ADVO in the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut by certain stockholders seeking to certify a class of all persons who purchased shares of ADVO’s common stock between July 6, 2006 and August 30, 2006. These complaints generally allege that ADVO violated federal securities law by issuing a series of materially false and misleading statements concerning its business and financial results in connection with its proposed merger with Valassis and, as a result, plaintiffs allege that ADVO’s stock traded at artificially inflated prices. On December 12, 2006, one of the three plaintiffs filed a Motion to Partially Lift Discovery Stay, in response to which defendants filed opposition on January 16, 2007. The presiding judge denied the plaintiff’s motion to lift the stay on discovery. In addition, the court ordered the matters consolidated under a single action and, as a result, a revised, consolidated complaint was filed by the plaintiffs on June 8, 2007. On August 24, 2007, the defendants filed a Motion to Dismiss the plaintiff’s complaint. The plaintiff filed a Brief in Opposition to the defendants’ motion on October 10, 2007, and the defendants’ responsive pleading was filed November 13, 2007. On April 25, 2008, the defendants’ motion was denied. On August 29, 2008, plaintiff moved for certification of the case as a class action. Defendants filed an opposition to the motion and the matter is pending before the court. In addition, ADVO, its directors and certain of its officers were sued in a derivative action filed in September 2006, raising essentially the same factual allegations as the securities class actions. The derivative action was dismissed by Notice of Voluntary Dismissal without prejudice on January 24, 2007. ADVO is generally obligated, to the extent permitted by law, to indemnify its directors and officers who are named defendants in some of these lawsuits. We are obligated under the amended merger agreement to maintain directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, for a period of six years following the ADVO acquisition, in respect of acts or omissions occurring at or prior to the acquisition for each person covered by the directors’ and officers’ liability insurance policy of ADVO and its subsidiaries at the time of the merger agreement. The claims brought against ADVO, with or without merit, could increase the insurance rates in the future. As a result of these lawsuits, we could incur significant legal expenses and management’s time and attention may be distracted from the day-to-day operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There is no assurance that ADVO’s insurance coverage will ultimately be available or, if available, sufficient to provide complete protection with respect to these claims. The current litigation with News America Incorporated may be costly and divert management’s attention, which may materially harm our business. Regardless of the outcome of the current litigations which we instituted against News America Incorporated, in which we allege a violation by News of the Sherman Act, various state competitive statutes and the commission of torts by News in connection with the marketing and sale of FSI space and in-store promotion, such litigation may be time-consuming and expensive and may distract our management from running the day-to-day operations of our business. The litigation costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources to address the claims in the litigation may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. If we do not meet the continued listing requirements of The New York Stock Exchange, our common stock may be delisted. Our common stock is currently traded on The New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE. Under the NYSE’s current listing standards, a company will be considered to be below compliance standards if its average global market capitalization over a consecutive 30 trading-day period is less than $75 million and, at the same time, its total stockholders’ equity is less than $75 million. As of March 3, 2009, our market capitalization and stockholders equity were both below the respective $75 million requirements. When a listed company’s stock falls below the market capitalization standard, the company will be listed as “below compliance” with the NYSE listing standards, and the company is permitted to submit a plan within 45 days regarding its ability to return to compliance with these 14 standards. We received notification from the NYSE on February 20, 2009 that we are not in compliance with the NYSE’s continued listing standard requirements. We responded to the NYSE that we intend to submit a plan that will advise the NYSE of definitive action we have taken, or are taking, that will bring us into conformity with continued listing standards within the required period. However, if our plan is not approved or if we are unable to regain compliance with the NYSE listing requirements, our stock will be delisted from trading on the NYSE, resulting in the need to find another stock exchange on which our stock can be listed or causing our stock to be traded on one or more over-the-counter markets such at the OTC Bulletin Board or the “pink sheets.” The delisting of our common stock by the NYSE could, among other things, reduce our stockholders’ ability to buy and sell our common stock, reduce the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, negatively impact our ability to raise equity financing and access the public capital markets or materially impact our results of operation and financial condition, any or all of which could negatively affect the market price of our common stock or cause the market price to become more volatile. In addition, we may experience other adverse effects, including, without limitation, the loss of confidence in us by current and prospective suppliers, customers, employees and others with whom we have or may seek to initiate business relationships and our ability to attract and retain personnel by means of equity compensation would be greatly impaired. Failure to maintain adequate internal controls may affect our ability to report timely and accurate financial statements and adversely affect our business and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that companies design and maintain an adequate system of internal control over financial reporting and assess and report on such internal control structure annually. Such a system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. In addition, the design of any internal control system is based in part upon certain assumptions regarding the likelihood of future events. Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. There can be no assurance that our internal control systems and procedures will not result in or lead to a future material weakness, or that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in our internal controls in the future. A material weakness in internal control over financial reporting would require our management and independent public accounting firm to evaluate our internal controls as ineffective. Furthermore, if we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be impaired. If our internal control over financial reporting is not considered adequate, or if as a result we are unable to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis, we may, among other things, experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. Because we self insure a number of our benefit plans, unexpected changes in claim trends may negatively impact our financial condition. We self-insure a significant portion of expected losses under our workers’ compensation program and medical benefits claims. While we maintain third-party stop-loss insurance policies to cover certain liability costs in excess of predetermined retained amounts, unexpected changes in claim trends, including the severity and frequency of claims, actuarial estimates and medical cost inflation could result in costs that are significantly different than initially reported. If future claims-related liabilities increase due to unforeseen circumstances, our self-insurance costs could increase significantly. Due to uncertainty in the application and interpretation of applicable state sales tax laws, we may be exposed to additional sales tax liability. The application and interpretation of applicable state sales tax laws to certain of our products is uncertain. Accordingly, we may be exposed to additional sales tax liability to the extent various state jurisdictions determine that certain of our products are subject to such jurisdictions’ sales tax. We have recorded a liability of $8.1 million, reflecting our best estimate of our potential sales tax liability. While we believe all of our estimates and assumptions are reasonable and will be sustained upon audit, the actual liabilities may exceed such estimates. If so, it may negatively impact our financial condition. The uncertainty of current economic and political conditions make budgeting and forecasting difficult and may reduce sales promotion spending. The future direction of the overall domestic and global economies could have a significant impact on our business. The potential for future terrorist attacks, increased global conflicts and the escalation of existing conflicts has created worldwide uncertainties that may have a negative impact on demand for our products. In addition, the current economic downturn has decreased the advertising budgets of our customer base, which could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because all components of our budgeting and forecasting, as well as that of our customers, are dependent upon estimates of growth in the markets served and demand for our products and services, the current global economic downturn and related financial market uncertainties may render estimates of future income and expenditures even more difficult to make than usual. Future events that may not have been anticipated could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 15 These risk factors that may affect future performance and the accuracy of forward-looking statements are illustrative. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 