Item 1A. Risk Factors A wide range of factors could materially affect Valassis’ future developments and performance, particularly the statements made in the “Business Outlook” section. Factors affecting our operations and future financial performance include the risks and uncertainties set forth below: Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and make it more difficult for us to service our debt or obtain additional financing, if necessary. We incurred a substantial level of debt in connection with our acquisition of ADVO. This high degree of leverage could have a material adverse effect on our business and make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. For example, our substantial indebtedness may: • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our growth strategy or other purposes or make such financing more costly; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • increase our vulnerability to competitive pressures and to general adverse economic or industry conditions, including fluctuations in market interest rates or a downturn in our business; • limit our flexibility in implementing our existing or any new business strategy or planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, the industry or general economic conditions; • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors that have greater financial resources than us, including News Corporation; and • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations. In addition, the indentures governing our 8 1/4% Senior Notes due 2015 (the “2015 Notes”), our Senior Secured Convertible Notes due 2033 (the “2033 Secured Notes”) and our 6 5/8% Senior Notes due 2009 (the “2009 Secured Notes”) and our senior secured credit facility contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay such debt, if accelerated, or that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on such debt. See “—The restrictive covenants in our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the 2015 Notes, the 2009 Secured Notes and the 2033 Secured Notes and any of the agreements governing our future indebtedness could adversely restrict our financial and operating flexibility and subject us to other risks.” Despite our current indebtedness levels and the restrictive covenants set forth in the agreements governing our indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more indebtedness. This could increase the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. The terms of our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the 2015 Notes, the 2033 Secured Notes and the 2009 Secured Notes permit us and certain of our subsidiaries to incur certain additional indebtedness, including additional secured indebtedness. If we or our subsidiaries are in compliance with the financial covenants set forth in these agreements, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness. In addition, under certain circumstances we will have the right to increase the size of our senior secured credit facility. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify. 8 We may not be able to generate a sufficient amount of cash flow to meet our debt obligations. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to our indebtedness will depend on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result, holders of our debt could declare all outstanding principal and interest on our debt to be due and payable and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Furthermore, if our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to reduce or delay scheduled expansions and capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital, restructure our debt or revise or delay our strategic plans. We cannot assure you that our operating performance, cash flow and capital resources will be sufficient for payment of our debt in the future. If we are required to take any of the actions referred to above, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions on terms acceptable to us, or at all, that these actions would enable us to continue to satisfy our capital requirements or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our various debt instruments. The restrictive covenants in our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the 2015, the 2009 Secured Notes and the 2033 Secured Notes and any of the agreements governing our future indebtedness could adversely restrict our financial and operating flexibility and subject us to other risks. Our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the 2015 Notes, the 2009 Secured Notes and the 2033 Secured Notes contain affirmative and negative covenants that limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to take certain actions. Our senior secured credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial conditions. Our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the 2015 Notes, the 2009 Secured Notes and the 2033 Secured Notes also restricts, among other things, our and our subsidiaries’ ability to: • incur additional debt; • pay dividends and make other restricted payments; • make certain investments, loans and advances; • create or permit certain liens; • issue or sell capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; • use the proceeds from sales of assets and subsidiary stock; • enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; • create or permit restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and • sell all or substantially all of our assets or consolidate or merge with or into other companies. These restrictions may limit our ability to operate our business and may prohibit or limit our ability to enhance our operations, take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise or meet our capital needs. Furthermore, future debt instruments or other contracts could contain financial or other covenants more restrictive than those applicable to our senior secured credit facility, the 2009 Secured Notes, the 2033 Secured Notes or the 2015 Notes. 9 The breach of any of these covenants by us or the failure by us to meet any of these conditions or requirements could result in a default under any or all of such indebtedness. Our ability to continue to comply with these covenants and requirements may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. An event of default under our debt agreements could trigger events of default under our other debt agreements and the holders of the defaulted debt could declare all of the amounts outstanding thereunder, together with accrued interest, to become immediately due and payable. If such acceleration occurs, we would not be able to repay our debt and we may not be able to borrow sufficient funds to refinance our debt. Even if new financing is made available to us, it may not be on terms acceptable to us. Some of our debt, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facility, is based on variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of an increase in interest rates. As of December 31, 2007, $30.6 million of our indebtedness was subject to variable interest rates. We have entered into two interest rate swap agreements which fixed the interest rate for an aggregate of $480.0 million of our variable rate debt. Our swap agreements have a notional value of $480.0 million and, effectively, fix our interest rate at 6.795% and expire in December 2010. Our remaining variable rate debt of $30.6 million is subject to market rate risk, as our interest payments will fluctuate as the underlying interest rates change as a result of market changes. During the period when our interest rate swap agreement is effective, a 1% change in interest rates would result in a change in interest expense of approximately $0.3 million per year. If there is a rise in interest rates, our debt service obligations on our variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, which would affect our cash flows and results of operations. If we borrow additional amounts under the revolving portion of our senior secured credit facility, our market rate risk may increase. We may not have sufficient funds to purchase our 2033 Secured Notes in the event the holders of our 2033 Secured Notes exercise their put option and require us to purchase such notes before their maturity date. The holders of our 2033 Secured Notes may require us to purchase all or a portion of our 2033 Secured Notes on May 22, 2008 and May 22, 2013 at a price of $667.24 and $723.48 per $1,000 principal amount at maturity, respectively, payable in cash. Any such payment may have a material adverse effect on our cash position at such time. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will have or be able to borrow sufficient funds to repurchase our 2033 Secured Notes if the holders of such notes exercise their put option. Although our senior secured credit facility contains a $160.0 million delayed draw term loan that is available until June 2008 to refinance our 2033 Secured Notes, including in the event the holders of our 2033 Secured Notes exercise their put rights in May 2008, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient financing under the delayed draw term loan at such time. If the holders of our 2033 Secured Notes exercise their put option and we are unable to repurchase our 2033 Secured Notes, an event of default would result under the indenture governing the 2033 Secured Notes, which could also constitute an event of default under the agreements governing our other debt. As a result, holders of our debt could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. The acquisition of ADVO was significantly larger than any other acquisition we have made to date and could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition if we are not able to successfully integrate the acquired business or if the expected benefits of the combination do not materialize. The ADVO acquisition is our largest and most significant acquisition to date. Successful integration has and continues to require, among other things, combining the two companies’ business development efforts, key personnel, information technology development, geographically separate facilities and business and executive cultures. Realization of the expected benefits of the acquisition, including certain cost synergies, also requires implementation of appropriate operations, management and financial reporting systems and controls. We may experience difficulties in effectively implementing these systems and integrating ADVO’s systems and operations. Integrating ADVO has been and continues to be a complex and time consuming process and requires significant attention from management and other personnel, which may distract their attention from the day-to-day business of the combined company. The success of the acquisition will also depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated revenue and expense opportunities from combining the business of ADVO with our business and there is no assurance that our financial results will meet or exceed the financial results that would have been achieved absent the acquisition. If our integration of ADVO is not successful or if ADVO’s operations are less profitable than we currently anticipate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 10 Increased competition could reduce the demand for our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. Our products that reach a large area at low cost, which we refer to as to our Market Delivered products, compete in the cooperative FSI business principally with News America Marketing FSI, a company owned by The News Corporation. We compete for business primarily on the basis of price, category availability, targeting ability, customer service and relationships, and the ability to integrate with other products. News America Marketing FSI has been competing aggressively for FSI business. As a consequence, FSI prices have declined substantially over the last several years and are expected to continue to decline in the foreseeable future. We cannot predict when, or if, FSI prices will stabilize or increase. This, coupled with a flat industry, has resulted in decreasing revenues and profitability for our FSI segment. When FSI contracts come up for renewal, we may not be able to renew them on favorable terms or at all. In addition, some of our competitors, particularly News America, have substantially greater financial resources than we do. Accordingly, these competitors may be better able to withstand changes in conditions within the industries in which we operate and may have significantly greater operating and financial flexibility than we do. These competitors could take a greater market share and cause us to lose business from our customers. In addition, it is possible that alternative media or changes in promotional strategies could make our products less attractive to our customers and could cause a loss of demand for our products and services. Our Shared Mail segment’s media business faces intense competition based primarily on the ability to target selected potential customers on a cost-effective basis and provide a satisfactory return on advertising investment. Shared Mail products also compete for advertising dollars against other forms of print and electronic media and other advertising in general. Competition for market share advertising also comes from magazines, radio, broadcast and cable television, shoppers, the Internet, other communications media and other advertising printers that operate in Shared Mail markets. The extent and nature of such competition are, in large part, determined by the location and demographics of the markets targeted by a particular advertiser and the number of media alternatives in those markets. Shared Mail customers and prospective customers are operating with lower advertising budgets, while trying to allocate their spending across a growing number of media channels. They are increasingly faced with the challenge of doing more with less. The failure to improve Shared Mail’s current processes or to develop new products and services could result in the loss of clients to current or future competitors. In addition, failure to gain market acceptance of new products and services could adversely affect growth. Our Neighborhood Targeted segment competes against commercial printers and media placement agencies for solo specialized promotional programs for single advertisers. While both types of competitors have a history of competing on the basis of price to increase volume and improve economies of scale, commercial printers tend to be particularly aggressive during periods when they have unused capacity. In addition, we compete with Sunflower Marketing with respect to our polybag advertising and sampling products. To the extent our competitors in these businesses decide to compete more aggressively on price due to excess capacity or for other reasons it could materially negatively affect our revenue and profit margins. Our Neighborhood Targeted products also compete with several newspaper network groups in the ROP market. While entering the ROP market does not require a significant investment in machinery and equipment, it does require a significant investment in systems and human resources in order to compete effectively. An increase in the number of ROP competitors could result in a loss of market share. In our International & Services segment, our subsidiary, NCH Marketing Services, Inc., competes against Carolina Manufacturing Services and Carolina Services, both owned by Inmar, Inc., and International Outsourcing Services, LLC for coupon clearing and redemption services in the United States. To the extent that our competitors in this business decide to compete more aggressively on price, it could lower our market share and negatively affect our revenue and profit margin. 11 Our Shared Mail segment depends on the USPS and other third parties for delivery of its products and on third party information technology systems and services. If such third parties do not fulfill their obligations, our Shared Mail segment may lose customers and experience reduced revenue and profitability. Our Shared Mail segment’s products are primarily delivered through the USPS. Postage expense is our Shared Mail segment’s largest expense. The inability of the USPS to deliver our Shared Mail segment’s products on a timely basis could disrupt our Shared Mail segment’s business and, in turn, adversely affect our business, sales, results of operation and financial condition. Furthermore, USPS rates increase periodically and we have no control over increases that may occur in the future. An increase in the cost of postage combined with our Shared Mail segment’s inability to successfully pass through such postage rate increases directly to its customers could negatively affect our earnings. Our Shared Mail segment also depends on third party information technology systems and services for its operations most of which are provided by a single third party. Such third party’s performance is outside of our control. This third party provides computer processing, systems development and other various systems support to us. Our regional production sites, sales offices and corporate headquarters are on-line with this computer center, enabling the day-to-day processing functions to be performed and providing our Shared Mail segment with management information. The systems include: order processing and production control, transportation/distribution, address list maintenance, market analysis, label printing and distribution, billing and financial systems, human resources and payroll processing, carrier routing of addresses received from customer files and demographic analyses as well as other systems. We also have agreements with this third party to provide a customer support center (help desk) and client server (server farm) management services. Any failures or interruptions in the availability of these systems or services could disrupt our Shared Mail segment’s business and adversely affect our sales, results of operations and financial condition. Significant increases in the cost of paper, which are beyond our control, could adversely affect our financial health. We are dependent upon the availability of paper to print our customers’ advertising circulars. Paper costs have historically experienced significant fluctuations. We have a limited ability to protect ourselves from these fluctuations or to pass increased costs along to our customers. A significant portion of our paper requirements is purchased from three paper companies under long-term contracts. These contracts limit the amount of any increase or decrease (to approximately 10% in any twelve-month period) in our cost of paper purchased from these suppliers, which cost can be adjusted quarterly. However, when these contracts expire at the end of 2008, we may not be able to replace them with favorable terms or at all. Significant increases in the cost of paper could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. The possibility of consolidation in our customer base, the loss of customers to alternative advertising methods or decreases in the frequency or amount of customers’ mailings could impact our revenue growth and profitability. In recent years there has been a growing trend toward retailer consolidation. As a result of this consolidation, the number of retailers to which we sell our products and services may decline and lead to a decrease in our revenues. In addition, we may lose customers due to the acquisition of such customers by companies that are not interested in using our products and services or that eliminate retail locations of our existing customers. Also, a customer may decide to decrease its mailing frequency or modify the amount, pages and weight, and kind of advertising pieces it purchases from us. Our customers may be impacted by the items detailed above and by other general economic and business conditions that could affect their demand for our products and services and in turn choose other alternative advertising methods. Specifically, significant revenue changes in our Shared Mail segment may have a corresponding impact to profit due to the fixed cost nature of postage expense. Postage costs associated with advertising packages are fixed in nature for packages that weigh 3.3 ounces or less, whether or not the package is partially or completely filled. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on us and our financial condition. ADVO is currently faced with a class action lawsuit, the litigation and outcome of which may be detrimental to our financial condition, and there is potential that subsequent lawsuits will be filed. In September 2006, three securities class action lawsuits were filed against ADVO in the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut by certain stockholders seeking to certify a class of all persons who purchased shares of ADVO’s common stock between July 6, 2006 and August 30, 2006. These complaints generally allege that ADVO violated federal securities law by issuing a series of materially false and misleading statements concerning its business and financial results in connection with its proposed merger with Valassis and, as a result, plaintiffs allege that ADVO’s stock traded at artificially inflated prices. 12 On December 12, 2006, one of the three plaintiffs filed a Motion to Partially Lift Discovery Stay, in response to which defendants filed opposition on January 16, 2007. The presiding judge denied the plaintiff’s motion to lift the stay on discovery. In addition, the court ordered the matters consolidated under a single action and, as a result, a revised, consolidated complaint was filed by the plaintiffs on June 8, 2007. On August 24, 2007, the defendants filed a Motion to Dismiss the plaintiff’s complaint. The plaintiff filed a Brief in Opposition to the defendants’ motion on October 10, 2007, and the defendants’ responsive pleading was filed November 13, 2007. At this time, the parties are awaiting a hearing date from the Court. ADVO, its directors and certain of its officers were sued in a derivative action filed in September 2006, raising essentially the same factual allegations as the securities class actions. The derivative action was dismissed by Notice of Voluntary Dismissal without prejudice on January 24, 2007. There can be no assurance that this derivative action will not be filed again at a later date. ADVO is generally obligated, to the extent permitted by law, to indemnify its directors and officers who are named defendants in some of these lawsuits. We are obligated under the amended merger agreement to maintain directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, for a period of six years following the ADVO acquisition, in respect of acts or omissions occurring at or prior to the acquisition for each person covered by the directors’ and officers’ liability insurance policy of ADVO and its subsidiaries at the time of the merger agreement. The claims brought against ADVO, with or without merit, could increase the insurance rates in the future. As a result of these lawsuits, we could incur significant legal expenses and management’s time and attention may be distracted from the day-to-day operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There is no assurance that ADVO’s insurance coverage will ultimately be available or, if available, sufficient to provide complete protection with respect to these claims. Failure to maintain adequate internal controls may affect our ability to report timely and accurate financial statements and adversely affect our business and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that companies design and maintain an adequate system of internal control over financial reporting and assess and report on such internal control structure annually. Such a system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. In addition, the design of any internal control system is based in part upon certain assumptions regarding the likelihood of future events. Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. There can be no assurance that our continued integration of ADVO, and our respective internal control systems and procedures, will not result in or lead to a future material weakness in the combined company’s internal controls, or that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in our internal controls in the future. A material weakness in internal control over financial reporting would require our management and independent public accounting firm to evaluate our internal controls as ineffective. Furthermore, if we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be impaired. If our internal control over financial reporting is not considered adequate, or if as a result we are unable to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis, we may, among other things, experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. Because we self insure a number of our benefit plans, unexpected changes in claim trends may negatively impact our financial condition. We self-insure a significant portion of expected losses under our workers’ compensation program and medical benefits claims. Unexpected changes in claim trends, including the severity and frequency of claims, actuarial estimates and medical cost inflation could result in costs that are significantly different than initially reported. If future claims-related liabilities increase due to unforeseen circumstances, our self-insurance costs could increase significantly. 13 The uncertainty of current economic and political conditions make budgeting and forecasting difficult and may reduce sales promotion spending. The future direction of the overall domestic and global economies could have a significant impact on our business. The potential for future terrorist attacks, increased global conflicts and the escalation of existing conflicts has created worldwide uncertainties that may have a negative impact on demand for our products. In addition, an economic downturn may decrease the advertising budgets of our customer base, which could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because all components of our budgeting and forecasting, as well as that of our customers, are dependent upon estimates of growth in the markets served and demand for our products and services, the prevailing economic uncertainties may render estimates of future income and expenditures even more difficult to make than usual. Future events that may not have been anticipated could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. These risk factors that may affect future performance and the accuracy of forward-looking statements are illustrative. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 