Item 1A. Risk Factors This section describes some of the potential risks relating to our business, such as market, liquidity, operational, reputation and regulatory. The risks described below are some of the more important factors that could affect our business. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in evaluating the Company and our common stock. If any of the risks described below actually occur our business, revenues, profitability, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, reputation and stock price could be materially adversely affected. We earn substantially all of our revenues based on assets under management and therefore a reduction in assets under management would reduce our revenues and profitability. Assets under management fluctuate based on many factors including: market conditions, investment performance and client withdrawals. The majority of our revenues are generated from asset-based fees from investment management products and services to individuals and institutions. Therefore, if the assets under management decline, our fee revenues decline reducing profitability as some of our expenses are fixed. There are several reasons that assets under management could decline as discussed below: Domestic and global market conditions in the equity and credit markets, which have experienced significant volatility and uncertainty, can influence assets under management. The value of assets under management can decline due to price declines in specific securities, in the securities markets generally, or in specific market segments or geographic areas where those assets are invested. Funds and portfolios that we manage related to certain geographic markets and industry sectors are also vulnerable to political, social and economic events. If the security markets decline or experience volatility, this could have a negative impact on our assets under management and our revenues. Increases in interest rates from their present, historically low levels also may adversely affect the net asset values of our assets under management. Decreases in interest rates could lead to outflows in our fixed income assets as investors may seek higher yields. In the event of extreme circumstances, including economic, political, or business crises, such as a widespread systemic failure in the global financial system or failures of firms that have significant obligations as counterparties on financial instruments, we may suffer significant declines in assets under management and severe liquidity or valuation issues. The performance of our investment strategies is critical to the maintenance and growth of assets under management. Net flows related to our investment strategies can be affected by investment performance relative to other competing investment strategies or to established benchmarks. Investment management strategies are rated, ranked or assessed by independent third-parties, distribution partners, and industry periodicals and services. These assessments often influence the investment decisions of our clients. If the performance or assessment of our investment strategies is seen as underperforming relative to peers, it could result in an increase in the withdrawal of assets by existing clients and the inability to attract additional investments from existing and new clients. In addition, certain of our investment strategies have capacity constraints, as there is a limit to the number of securities available for the strategy to operate effectively. In those instances, we may choose to limit access to new or existing investors. Our clients include the boards of directors for our sponsored mutual funds, managed account program sponsors, private clients, and institutional clients. Our investment management agreements with these clients may be terminated upon short notice without penalty. As a result, there would be little impediment to these sponsors or clients terminating our agreements. Investment contracts are generally terminated for factors including sustained investment performance, regulatory or compliance issues. The directors of our sponsored funds may deem it to be in the best interests of a fund’s shareholders to make decisions adverse to us, such as reducing the compensation paid to us, requesting that we subsidize fund expenses over certain thresholds, or imposing restrictions on our management of the fund. Under the Investment Company Act, investment advisory agreements automatically terminate in the event of an assignment, which may occur if, among other events, the Company undergoes a change in control, such as any person acquiring 25% voting rights of our common stock. If an assignment were to occur, we could continue to act as adviser to a fund only if that fund’s board of directors 11 Table of Contents and its stockholders approved a new investment advisory agreement. In addition, investment advisory agreements for the separate accounts we manage may not be assigned without the consent of the client. If an assignment occurs, we cannot be certain that the Company will be able to obtain the necessary fund approvals or the necessary consents from our clients. The termination of any investment management contract relating to a material portion of assets under management would adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Any damage to our reputation could harm our business and lead to a reduction in our revenues and profitability. Maintaining a strong reputation with the investment community is critical to our success. Our reputation is vulnerable to many threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or impossible to remediate even if they are without merit or satisfactorily addressed. Our reputation may be impacted by many factors, including but not limited to, poor performance, litigation and conflicts of interests. Any damage to our reputation could impede our ability to attract and retain clients and key personnel, and lead to a reduction in the amount of our assets under management, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. We may be required to, or elect to, support the stable net asset values of our money market funds, which could negatively affect our revenues and profitability. As of December, 31, 2013, we managed $1.5 billion of money market assets representing 2.6% of our total assets under management. Although money market funds seek to preserve a stable net asset value, and our money market funds maintained this stable net asset value, there is no guarantee that this stable net asset value will be achieved in the future. Market conditions domestically and globally, which may include significant volatility and uncertainty, could lead to severe liquidity or security pricing issues, which could impact money market net asset values. If the net asset value of our money market funds was to fall below its stable net asset value, we would likely experience significant redemptions in money market assets under management, loss of shareholder confidence, and reputational harm, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. If a money market fund’s stable net asset value comes under pressure, we may elect to provide credit, liquidity, or other support to the fund. We are not legally required to support any money market fund, and there can be no assurance that any support would be sufficient to avoid an adverse impact. A decision to provide support may arise from factors specific to our funds or from industry-wide factors. If we elect to provide support, we could incur losses from the support we provide and incur additional costs, including financing costs, in connection with the support. These losses and additional costs could be material and could adversely affect our profitability. If we were to take such actions we may also restrict our corporate assets, limiting our flexibility to use these assets for other purposes, and may be required to raise additional capital. We manage client assets under agreements that have established investment guidelines or other contractual requirements and any failure to comply could result in claims, losses or regulatory sanctions, which could negatively impact our revenues and profitability. The agreements under which we manage client assets often have established investment guidelines or other contractual requirements that we are required to comply with in providing our investment management services. Although we maintain various compliance procedures and other controls to prevent, detect, and correct such errors, any failure or allegation of a failure to comply with these guidelines or other requirement could result in client claims, reputational damage, withdrawal of assets, and potential regulatory sanctions, any of which could negatively impact our revenues and profitability. Our business relies on the ability to attract and retain key employees, and the loss of such employees could negatively affect financial performance. The success of our business is dependent to a large extent on our ability to attract and retain key employees such as senior executives, portfolio managers, securities analysts and sales personnel. Competition in the job 12 Table of Contents market for these professionals is generally intense and compensation levels in the industry are highly competitive. The market for investment managers is also characterized by the movement of investment managers among different firms. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain key employees, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain key employees increase, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, we utilize equity awards as part of our compensation philosophy and as a means for recruiting and retaining key employees. Declines in our stock price could result in deterioration in the value of equity awards granted, thus lessening the effectiveness of retaining key employees through stock-based awards. In certain circumstances, the departure of key employees could cause higher redemption rates for certain assets under management, or the loss of certain client accounts. Any inability to retain our key employees, attract qualified employees, or replace key employee positions in a timely manner, could lead to a reduction in the amount of our assets under management, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. In addition, there could be additional costs to replace, retain or attract new talent which would result in a decrease in our profitability. Competitive pressures may force us to reduce the fees we charge to our clients, increase amounts paid to our financial intermediaries or provide more support to those intermediaries, all of which could result in a reduction of our revenues and profitability. Our profits are highly dependent on the fee levels for our products and services. In recent years, there has been a trend in certain segments of our markets toward lower fees. Competition could cause us to reduce the fees that we charge for products and services. In order to maintain appropriate fee levels in a competitive environment, we must be able to continue to provide clients with investment products and services that are viewed as appropriate in relation to the fees charged. If our clients, including our fund boards, were to view our fees as being high relative to the market or the returns provided by our investment products, we may choose to reduce our fee levels or we may experience significant redemptions in our assets under management, which could reduce our revenues and profitability. We are subject to an extensive and complex regulatory environment and changes in regulations or failure to comply with regulation could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. The investment management industry in which we operate is subject to extensive and frequently changing regulation. We are regulated by the SEC under the Exchange Act, the Investment Company Act and the Investment Advisers Act and we may become subject to the Commodities Futures Trading Commission under the Commodities Exchange Act. Our Global Fund is subject to regulation by the Central Bank of Ireland. We are also regulated by FINRA, the Department of Labor under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”), as well as other federal and state laws and regulations. The regulatory environment in which we operate has seen significant and frequent changes in recent years. Although we spend extensive time and resources on compliance efforts designed to ensure compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, if we or our affiliates fail to timely and properly modify and update our compliance procedures in this changing and highly complex regulatory environment, we may be subject to various legal proceedings, including civil litigation, governmental investigations and enforcement actions and result in fines, penalties or suspensions of individual employees or limitations on particular business activities, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We have significant deferred tax assets in the U.S., and any limitations on our tax attributes could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to federal and state income taxes in the United States. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the appropriateness of our tax 13 Table of Contents positions and reporting. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could be unfavorable. In addition, our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes available to us will be dependent on our ability to generate taxable income. A large portion of our deferred tax assets is related to the application of a particular Internal Revenue Code section. We received a private letter ruling that relies on certain facts, assumptions and representations from management regarding the past conduct of our businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions or representations are determined to be incorrect, we may not be able to rely on the ruling and could be subject to significant tax liabilities in the event we utilize the related deferred tax assets. We utilize unaffiliated subadvisers in providing investment management services and any matters that have an adverse impact to their business, or any change in our relationships with our subadvisers could lead to a reduction in assets under management, which will adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We utilize select unaffiliated subadvisers as investment managers on certain mutual funds and variable insurance funds we offer. Because we typically have no ownership interests in these unaffiliated subadvisers we do not manage or oversee their business activities. As a consequence, our financial condition and profitability may be adversely affected by problems stemming from the business activities of these unaffiliated subadvisers, where situations could arise that could lead to a disruption of their operations, exposure to disciplinary action or reputational harm. We periodically negotiate provisions and renewals of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or our subadvisers. These relationships can also be terminated upon short notice without penalty. An interruption or termination of our unaffiliated subadvisory relationships could affect our ability to market our unaffiliated subadvised products and result in a reduction in assets under management, which will adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We distribute through intermediaries, and changes in key distribution relationships could reduce our revenues, increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability. Our primary source of distribution for our retail products is through intermediaries that include national, regional and independent broker-dealers, financial planners and registered investment advisors. Our success is highly dependent on access to these various distribution systems. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain access to these channels at all or at similar pricing. Increasing competition for these distribution channels could cause our distribution costs to rise, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues and profitability. In addition, these intermediaries generally offer their customers a significant array of investment products which are in addition to, and which compete with, our own investment products. The intermediaries or their customers may favor competing investment products over those we offer. To the extent that existing or future intermediaries prefer to do business with our competitors, the sales of our products as well as our market share, revenues and profitability could decline. We and our third-party service providers, which includes securities pricing and transaction processing services, rely on numerous technology systems, and a temporary business interruption or security breach could negatively impact our business and profitability. Our business will suffer if our technology systems fail or are interrupted or if security breaches or other disruptions compromise our information. Our technology systems and those of our third-party service providers are critical to our operations and any failure or interruption of those systems, whether resulting from technology or infrastructure breakdowns, defects or external causes such as fire, natural disaster, viruses, acts of terrorism or power disruptions, could result in financial loss, negatively impact our reputation, and negatively affect our ability to do business. Although we 14 Table of Contents have in place disaster recovery plans, we may experience temporary interruptions if a natural disaster or prolonged power outages were to occur which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We and certain of our third-party vendors receive and store personal information as well as non-public business information. Although we and our third-party vendors take precautions, it may still be vulnerable to hacking or other unauthorized use. A breach of the systems or hardware could result in an unauthorized release of this type of data, which may result in fines or penalties as well as other costly mitigation activities and harm to our reputation, any of which could negatively impact our operations and profitability. Ownership of a relatively large percentage of our common stock is concentrated with a small number of shareholders, which could increase the volatility in our stock trading and dramatically affect our share price. A large percentage of our common stock is held by a limited number of shareholders. If our larger shareholders decide to liquidate their positions, it could cause significant fluctuation in the share price of our common stock. Public companies with a relatively concentrated level of institutional shareholders, such as we have, often have difficulty generating trading volume in their stock. We have certain intangible assets, which could become impaired and have an adverse impact on our results of operations. At December 31, 2013, the Company had total assets of $645.0 million, which included $49.9 million of goodwill and other intangible assets. We cannot be certain that we will ever realize the value of such intangible assets. It could be necessary to recognize impairment of these assets should we experience significant decreases in assets under management, the termination of one or more material investment management contracts or material outflows if clients withdraw their assets following the departure of a key employee or for any other reasons. We may need to raise additional capital, refinance existing debt, and resources may not be available to us in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms, which could have an adverse impact on our business. Our ability to meet the future cash needs of the Company is dependent upon our ability to generate cash. Although the Company has been successful in generating sufficient cash in the past, it may not be successful in the future. We may need to raise additional capital to fund new business initiatives, or refinance existing debt, and financing may not be available to us in sufficient amounts, on acceptable terms, or at all. Our ability to access capital markets efficiently depends on a number of factors, including the state of credit and equity markets, interest rates and credit spreads. If we are unable to access sufficient capital on acceptable terms our business could be adversely impacted. We have corporate governance provisions that may make an acquisition of us more difficult. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage, delay, or prevent a merger, acquisition, or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions also could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. In addition, the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law also restrict certain business combinations with interested stockholders. Our insurance policies may not cover all liabilities and losses to which we may be exposed. We carry insurance in amounts and under terms that we believe are appropriate. Our insurance may not cover all liabilities and losses to which we may be exposed. Certain insurance coverage may not be available or may be prohibitively expensive in future periods. As our insurance policies come up for renewal, we may need to assume higher deductibles or pay higher premiums, which could have a material adverse effect on our expenses and net income. 15 Table of Contents SPECIAL NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains statements that are, or may be considered to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. All statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our beliefs or expectations, are forward-looking statements. These statements may be identified by such forward-looking terminology as “expect,” “estimate,” “intend,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “continue,” “project,” “opportunity,” “predict,” “would,” “potential,” “future,” “forecast,” “likely,” “target” or similar statements or variations of such terms. Our forward-looking statements are based on a series of expectations, assumptions and projections about our Company and the markets in which we operate, and are not guarantees of future results or performance, and involve substantial risks and uncertainty, including assumptions and projections concerning our assets under management, net cash inflows and outflows, operating cash flows, and future credit facilities, for all future periods. All of our forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K only. The Company can give no assurance that such expectations or forward-looking statements will prove to be correct. Actual results may differ materially. The Company does not undertake or plan to update or revise any such forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changes in plans, assumptions, estimates or projections, or other circumstances occurring after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, even if such results, changes or circumstances make it clear that any forward-looking information will not be realized. If there are any future public statements or disclosures by us which modify or impact any of the forward-looking statements contained in or accompanying this Annual Report on Form 10-K, such statements or disclosures will be deemed to modify or supersede such statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business and our forward-looking statements involve substantial known and unknown risks and uncertainties, including those discussed under “Risk Factors,” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. An occurrence of, or any material adverse change in, one or more of the risk factors or risks and uncertainties referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or included in our other periodic reports filed with the SEC could materially and adversely affect our operations, financial results, cash flows, prospects, and liquidity. You are urged to carefully consider all such factors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 