ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our Liquidity Continues to Suffer, and Funding to Provide Liquidity May Not Be Available to Us on Favorable Terms or At All In recent periods, a number of factors have placed significant stress on our liquidity, including increases in our non-performing assets, increases in our allowance for loan losses, increases in loan demand, increased competition for deposits in our primary market area and decreases in interest rates. These factors also have contributed to compression of our net interest margin and net income. We have historically had access to a number of alternative sources of liquidity, but given the recent and dramatic downturn in the credit and liquidity markets, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain such liquidity on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. For example, the cost of out-of-market deposits may continue to exceed the cost of deposits of similar maturity in our local market area, making them unattractive sources of funding; financial institutions may be unwilling to extend credit to banks because of concerns about the banking industry and the economy generally; and, given recent downturns in the economy, there may not be a viable market for raising equity capital. If funding continues to be available on a limited basis, or only on unfavorable terms, then our liquidity, net interest margin and net income, will be adversely affected. Current Levels of Market Volatility are Unprecedented, Which May Have an Adverse Impact on Our Ability to Access Capital The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 18 months. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. The current levels of market disruption and volatility have had an adverse effect on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have been actively pursuing a number of capital-raising alternatives in order to strengthen our capital position, including, without limitation, through a private placement (the “Private Placement”) of approximately $27.2 million of convertible preferred stock to a group of investors comprised of members of our management and board of directors, as well as several third-party investors (collectively, the “Purchasers”), and participation in the Capital Purchase Program administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury (the “Treasury”) under the Troubled Asset Relief Program. Consummation of the Private Placement was subject to a number of closing conditions, including, without limitation, the Treasury’s approval of our Capital Purchase Program application. On March 3, 2009, we voluntarily withdrew our application to participate in the Capital Purchase Program and this condition was not waived by the Purchasers. As a result, on March 31, 2009, the Company and the Purchasers mutually agreed to terminate the purchase agreement with respect to the Private Placement and the purchase price, which had been held in escrow, was returned to the Purchasers. Although we are currently considering a variety of strategic capital-raising alternatives, including, without limitation, restructuring the Private Placement described above, we may not be able to raise sufficient capital to strengthen our capital position. If we are unable to raise sufficient amounts of capital, our financial condition and future prospects will be materially and adversely affected. Regulatory Authorities have the Authority to Impose Stringent Enforcement Orders if, in Their Discretion, They Identify Weaknesses in Our Operations Under applicable laws, the Federal Reserve, as the Company’s primary federal regulatory, the FDIC, as the Bank’s primary federal regulator and deposit insurer, and the Georgia Department, as the Bank’s chartering authority, have the ability to impose substantial sanctions, restrictions and requirements on us if they determine, upon examination or otherwise, violations of laws with which the Company and the Bank must comply, or weaknesses or failures with respect to general standards of safety and soundness. Such enforcement may be formal or informal and can include directors’ resolutions, memoranda of understanding, cease and desist 13 orders, civil money penalties and termination of deposit insurance and bank closures. Enforcement actions may be taken regardless of the capital level of the institution. In particular, institutions that are not sufficiently capitalized in accordance with regulatory standards may also face capital directives or prompt corrective action. Applicable law prohibits disclosure of specific examination findings by the institution although formal enforcement actions are routinely disclosed by the regulatory authorities. Enforcement actions may require certain corrective steps (including staff additions or changes), impose limits on activities (such as lending, deposit taking, acquisitions or branching), prescribe lending parameters (such as loan types, volumes and terms) and require additional capital to be raised, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In many cases, policies must be revised by the institution and submitted to the regulatory authority for approval within time frames prescribed by the regulatory authorities. Failure to adhere to the requirements of such enforcement action can result in more severe penalties. Generally, such enforcement actions can be lifted only after a subsequent examination substantiates complete correction of the underlying issues. The Company or the Bank may become subject to enforcement action taken by the regulatory authorities. Compliance with any such action could distract management’s attention from our operations, cause us to incur significant expenses, restrict us from engaging in potentially profitable activities, and limit our ability to successfully raise capital. If the Recently Enacted Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) Fails to Stabilize the U.S. Financial System, Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations Could Be Adversely Affected On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”). The legislation was the result of a proposal by Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson to the U.S. Congress on September 20, 2008 in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. Pursuant to the EESA, the Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. On October 14, 2008, the Treasury announced a program under the EESA pursuant to which it would purchase senior preferred stock and warrants to purchase common stock from participating financial institutions (the “Capital Purchase Program”). On November 21, 2008, the FDIC adopted a Final Rule with respect to its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program pursuant to which the FDIC will guarantee certain “newly-issued unsecured debt” of banks and certain holding companies and also guarantee, on an unlimited basis, non-interest bearing bank transaction accounts. On February 10, 2009, Treasury Secretary Geithner announced a new stimulus plan, the Financial Stability Plan, which is intended, among other things, to create a public-private investment fund used to purchase distressed assets, create a consumer and business lending initiative, provide further capital assistance to financial institutions, stem foreclosures and restructure mortgages. Each of these programs was implemented to help stabilize and provide liquidity to the financial system. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA, the ARRA, the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, the Financial Stability Plan or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of the EESA, the ARRA, the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, the Financial Stability Plan or other governmental programs to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions likely will materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit and the trading price of our common stock. Likewise, there can be no assurance that we will be able to participate in any programs administered under the EESA or the Financial Stability Plan, including, without limitation, the public-private investment fund, in the future. Our Independent Registered Public Accountant has Expressed Substantial Doubt about our Ability to Continue as a Going Concern Our independent registered public accountant in their audit report for fiscal year 2008 has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Continued operations depend on our ability to raise additional capital, which we may be unable to accomplish in this weakened economic environment. The potential lack of sources of liquidity raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern for the foreseeable future. Our audited financial statements were prepared under the assumption that we will continue our operations on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the discharge of liabilities in the normal course of business. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if we are unable to continue as a going concern. If we cannot continue as a going concern, our shareholders will lose some or all of their investment in the Company. Our Access to Certain Lines of Credit May be Restricted or Unavailable At December 31, 2008, we had the capacity to borrow up to approximately $43.7 in total Federal Home Loan Bank advances. At December 31, 2008, we had approximately $39.5 million of federal funds lines of credit available from correspondent institutions. Based upon our financial condition and weak capital position, our access to these federal funds and lines of credit will be restricted in 2009 and may not be available at all, which will negatively impact our liquidity and general financial condition. 14 The Current and Further Deterioration of the Residential Mortgage Market Likely Will Result In Further Increases In Our Non-Performing Assets and Allowance for Loan Losses, and Make It More Difficult For Us to Recover Our Losses with Respect to Defaulted Loans Beginning in the third quarter of 2007, there were well-publicized developments in the credit, liquidity and real estate markets, beginning with a decline in the sub-prime mortgage lending market, which later extended to the markets for collateralized mortgage obligations, mortgage-backed securities and the lending markets generally. This dramatic decline in the real estate markets, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, which continued throughout 2008, has resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored and major commercial investment banks. There have also been restrictions in the resale markets for non-conforming loans and it has had an adverse effect on retail mortgage lending operations in many markets. In light of these market conditions, we regularly reassess the market value of our loan portfolio, the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the sufficiency of our allowance for loan losses. Our allowance for loan losses increased from 1.21% of total commercial banking loans at December 31, 2007 to 2.84% at December 31, 2008. We made a provision for loan losses of approximately $25.8 million during 2008, which was significantly higher than $2.7 million made in 2007. We also charged-off approximately $13.6 million in loans in 2008, which was significantly higher than $1.3 million charged-off in 2007. During the last nine months of 2008, the Bank charged-off $13.1 million in loans, which was a significant increase from 2007 and the first quarter of 2008. Of the total amount charged-off during the last nine months of 2008, $8.2 million was related to impaired loans that the Bank had not taken into foreclosure at the time of charge-off. During the last nine months of 2008, the Bank determined that the losses related to these loans were uncollectible. The Bank took an aggressive approach and charged-off the balances based upon the current downturn in the economy and real estate market. Of the total amount of charge-offs during 2008, $10.3 million was related to our construction and acquisition and development loan portfolio where the Bank has seen significant deterioration in asset quality, including an increase in the inability of some borrowers to make payments and declines in the value and marketability of underlying collateral. The increase in the provision for loan losses was due to an increase in classified loans and non-performing assets (which is comprised of non-accrual loans and other real estate owned by us as a result of foreclosures). We will likely experience further increases in classified loans and non-performing assets in the foreseeable future, as well as related increases in loan charge-offs, as the deterioration in the credit and real estate markets causes borrowers to default, and we expect to continue to employ the aggressive charge-off policy. During 2008, the Bank’s criticized loans increased $61.9 million, or 469%, from $13.2 million at December 31, 2007 to $75.1 million at December 31, 2008, non-performing loans increased $31.2 million, or 555%, from $5.6 million at December 31, 2007 to $36.8 million at December 31, 2008 and foreclosed properties increased $20.4 million, or 377%, from $5.4 million at December 31, 2007 to $25.8 million at December 31, 2008. The main sector of the Bank’s loan portfolio that experienced this deterioration was its construction and acquisition and development loans. The Bank’s criticized loans, non-performing loans and foreclosed properties related to its construction and acquisition and development loan portfolio increased $40.7 million, $23.8 million and $17.7 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2008. Further, the value of the collateral underlying a given loan, and the realizable value of such collateral in a foreclosure sale, likely will be negatively affected by the recent downturn in the real estate market, and therefore may result in our inability to realize a full recovery in the event that a borrower defaults on a loan. Any further increase in our non-performing assets, any increase in our loan charge-offs, any further increase in our provision for loan losses, the continuation of aggressive charge-off policy or any inability by us to realize the full value of underlying collateral in the event of a loan default, will negatively affect the our business, financial condition, liquidity, operating results, cash flow and the price of our securities. We May Be Unable to Renew Out-Of-Market Deposits Maturing in 2009 Based on Our Capital Position Because we are currently below the well-capitalized requirements of the FDICIA, we cannot acquire brokered deposits and we are limited in the rates we are able to offer on out-of-market deposits. From April 2009 to December 2009, we have approximately $111 million in brokered out-of-market deposits maturing. If we do not improve our capital position and return to a well-capitalized position, we will likely be unable to renew these out-of-market deposits and we may be required to increase our deposit rate in our local markets, which would adversely impact our net interest margin and net income. The NASDAQ May Not Extend the Temporary Relief for Stocks Trading below $1 Per Share In October 2008, the NASDAQ Stock Market temporarily suspended its listing requirement that requires companies to have a minimum bid price of $1 per share through April 20, 2009. NASDAQ rules classify a security as “deficient” if it has a closing bid price of less than $1 per share for thirty consecutive business days. Once deficient, issuers have an automatic 180-day period to regain compliance by having a closing bid price of at least $1 per share for 10 consecutive business days, and can receive an additional 180 days if all other listing requirements are met. If we do not meet this standard and the NASDAQ Stock Market does not continue its suspension of this listing requirement, liquidity in our stock could be materially and adversely affected. 15 Downturns in General and Local Economic Conditions Could Negatively Affect Our Business Crescent Bank is a community bank operating in the market area comprised of Pickens, Bartow, Forsyth, north Fulton, Cherokee, Dawson, Cobb, Walton and Gilmer Counties, Georgia. Our success depends on the economic conditions in these counties. Additionally, our ability to diversify and manage economic risks is limited by the performance of these local economies. Any significant downturn in these local economies will likely affect our loan demand as well as the value of the collateral that secures these loans. Our market area is primarily retail-oriented and our operations are dependent upon local individuals and small- to medium-sized businesses. As a result, we may face greater lending and credit risks than financial institutions lending to larger, better-capitalized businesses. In addition, any economic slowdown or recession over a prolonged period or other similar economic problems in our market area may be accompanied by reduced demand for consumer credit and declining real estate values in these areas, which may in turn result in an increased possibility of loss in the event of default. Any sustained period of decreased economic activity and increased delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could harm our growth and the results of our banking operations. Because approximately 93% of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, any further downturn in the real estate markets in our primary market area would adversely affect our business and operations. The Failure of Other Banks Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and the Results of Our Banking Operations Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and potential failures of other banking institutions, both nationally and in our market area. From January 2008 until April 2009, 9 of the 47 banks closed nationally have occurred in the State of Georgia. Banks are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. We have exposure to many different counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with a variety of counterparties in the banking industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or concerns about, one or more institutions with whom we do business, or the banking industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our Net Interest Income Could Be Negatively Affected By the Federal Reserve’s Recent Interest Rate Adjustments, Recent Developments in the Credit and Real Estate Markets and Competition in Our Primary Market Area Net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on interest-earning assets, such as investment securities and loans, and the interest expense that we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings, is our primary source of income. Our income is in turn our primary source of funding for our operations, including extending credit and reserving for loan losses. In response to the dramatic deterioration of the subprime, mortgage, credit and liquidity markets, the Federal Reserve reduced interest rates on three occasions in 2007 by a total of 100 basis points, to 4.25%, and by another 400 basis points, to a range of 0% to 0.25% in 2008. During the six months ended June 30, 2008, approximately 60% of our commercial banking loan portfolio was variable rate without a floor and was adjusting with changes in the prime rate. During the third and fourth quarter of 2008, the Bank began requiring floors on most of its new and renewed loans and the percentage of variable rate loans without a floor declined to 42% of the loan portfolio at September 30, 2008 and then to 28% at December 31, 2008. The interest rates on these loans decrease when the Federal Reserve reduces interest rates, which will reduce our net interest income. In addition, in order to compete for deposits in our primary market areas, we may offer more attractive interest rates to borrowers on deposit accounts and certificates of deposit, and we may increasingly rely on out-of-market or brokered deposits as a source of liquidity. The decrease in interest rates will likely reduce our net interest income during the first quarter of 2009 and the foreseeable future. This reduction in net interest income likely will be exacerbated by increases in our provision for loan losses and by the high level of competition that we face in our primary market area, which requires us to offer more attractive interest rates to borrowers, both on loans and deposits, and to rely upon out-of-market funding sources. Any reduction in our net interest income will negatively affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, operating results, cash flow and/or the price of our securities. We Face Credit Risks and Our Allowance for Loan Losses May Be Insufficient We may suffer losses because borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform their obligations in accordance with the terms of their loans. We also are exposed to risks that the realizable value of collateral securing loans may be insufficient to provide a full recovery in the event a borrower defaults on a loan. A significant portion of our net income is derived from our loan portfolio. Our credit policies and underwriting and credit monitoring procedures may not be adequate and we may be unable to anticipate unexpected losses that could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. We have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. While this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the establishment of loan losses is an estimate based upon experience, judgment, estimates and expectations regarding our borrowers, the economies in which we and our borrowers operate, as well as the judgments of our regulators. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our loan loss reserves will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses. In 16 addition, the recent downturn in the credit market may result in a level of defaults in excess of the estimates upon which our reserves are based, and the deterioration in the real estate market may result in certain loans in our portfolio being under-collateralized. If actual losses exceed our estimates and we increase our provision for loan losses, or if we are unable to realize the full value on the sale of any real estate collateral, our net income would decrease. During 2007 and 2006, our loan portfolio grew by approximately $117.9 million and $103.6 million, or approximately 17% each year. Given the relatively young age of a large portion of our loan portfolio, there may be unidentified risk since problems related to loan collections typically do not become evident until some time after the loans are originated. During 2008, our loan portfolio actually declined $29.8 million, or 4%. The Bank made the strategic decision to slow loan growth in 2008 and focus on asset quality and core deposit growth. Further, state and federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and our allowance for loan losses. Regulators, when reviewing our loan portfolio, may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, which would negatively affect our net income. Because a Significant Portion of Our Loan Portfolio Is Secured By Real Estate, Any Negative Conditions Affecting Real Estate May Harm Our Business Approximately 93% of our loan portfolio consists of commercial and consumer loans that are secured by various types of real estate, the value and marketability of which are sensitive to economic conditions and interest rates. In addition, these loans are subject to the risk that the local real estate markets will be overbuilt or will otherwise experience deterioration in value, driving down the value and marketability of the real estate that secures these loans. The current decline in the real estate markets may cause decrease in collateral values could increase our costs and time of collection, as well as the amount of potential losses we may incur on loans secured by real estate. Commercial real estate or “CRE” is cyclical and poses risks of possible loss due to concentration levels and similar risks of the asset. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $480.3 million in CRE loans, or approximately 61% of our loan portfolio. Our CRE loans have declined by approximately 26% since December 31, 2007. The banking regulators are giving CRE lending greater scrutiny, and may require banks with higher levels of CRE loans to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly higher levels of allowances for possible losses and capital levels as a result of CRE lending growth and exposures. We Have Large Loan Balances with a Small Number of Borrowers Who Could Be Affected by Recent Trends in the Mortgage Lending and Real Estate Markets We have approximately $81.3 million in loans outstanding to three borrowers. These loans are secured by retail and residential real estate developments. If the current downward trends in the mortgage lending and real estate market continue, these three borrowers may be unable to perform their obligations under the loan agreements, and the collateral securing these loans may decline in value or become unmarketable. A default by any of these borrowers or on any other large loans in our portfolio, or any group of loans secured by similar collateral or affected by similar market conditions, would adversely affect our net income and financial condition. We Have a Significant Amount of Construction Loans That Pose Additional Risks to Those Risks Posed By Real Estate Loans Generally Historically, our loan portfolio has included a significant number of construction loans consisting of one-to-four family residential construction loans, commercial construction loans and land loans for residential and commercial development. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 44% of our total loan portfolio was in acquisition and development and construction loans. In addition to the risk of nonpayment by borrowers and risks associated with the fact that these loans generally bear interest at variable rates, construction lending poses additional risks that affect the ability of borrowers to repay loans and that affect the value and marketability of real estate collateral, such as: • land values may decline; • developers, builders or owners may fail to complete or develop projects; • municipalities may place moratoriums on building, utility connections or required certifications; • developers may fail to sell the improved real estate; 17 • there may be construction delays and cost overruns; • collateral may prove insufficient; or • permanent financing may not be obtained in a timely manner. Any of these conditions could negatively affect our net income and our financial condition. During 2008, we reduced our construction loans $70.7 million, or 17%, from 2007. The Bank limited any new construction loans in 2008 due to the declining real estate market. We Occasionally Purchase Non-Recourse Loan Participations From Other Banks Based on Information Provided By the Selling Bank From time to time, we purchase loan participations from other banks in the ordinary course of business, usually without recourse to the selling bank. This may occur during times when we are experiencing excess liquidity in an effort to improve our profitability. When we purchase loan participations we apply the same underwriting standards as we would to loans that we directly originate and seek to purchase only loans that would satisfy these standards. We are less likely to be familiar with the borrower and the economic conditions in the borrower’s and the selling bank’s local market, and may rely to some extent on information provided to us by the selling bank and on the selling bank’s administration of the loan relationship. We therefore have less control over, and may incur greater risk and losses with respect to, loan participations that we purchase. If We Are Unable to Increase Our Share of Deposits in Our Market, We May Accept Out of Market and Brokered Deposits, the Costs of Which May Be Higher than Expected We can offer no assurance that we can maintain or increase our market share of deposits in our highly competitive primary market area. If we are unable to do so, we may be forced to accept increased amounts of out of market or brokered deposits. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $240.1 million in out of market deposits, including brokered deposits, which represented approximately 26% of our total deposits. Recently, the cost of out of market and brokered deposits has decreased to costs below the costs of deposits in our local market. However, the costs of out of market and brokered deposits can be volatile, and if we are unable to access these markets or if our costs related to out of market and brokered deposits increases, our liquidity and ability to support demand for loans could be adversely affected. We Face Strong Competition The commercial banking business is highly competitive. We compete with a variety of financial institutions, including the following: • commercial banks; • savings banks; • savings and loan associations; • credit unions; • mortgage companies; • mutual funds; • insurance companies; • brokerage and investment banking firms; • securities firms; • non-financial entities maintaining credit programs; and • government organizations and government sponsored entities. Many of these competitors have much greater resources and lending limits, more diversified markets and larger branch networks, and are able to offer similar and additional services more efficiently than we can. We compete with these institutions both in attracting 18 deposits and in making loans. We generally have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Several of our competitors are well-established and much larger financial institutions, and we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size and lack of geographic diversification. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the extensive regulations that we are. Any future federal or state legislation could further affect this level of competition. In addition, as a result of recent developments in the credit and liquidity markets, many of our competitors in our primary market area, in order to attract deposits, have recently offered interest rates on certificates of deposit and other products that we are unable to offer. If we cannot effectively compete for deposits in our primary market area, our liquidity could come under further pressure, and we may be unable to fund our operations. We may also be forced to rely more heavily on out-of-market and brokered deposits, the cost of which could cause a decrease in our net interest margin. Our Business Is Highly Regulated Our success depends not only on competitive factors but also on state and federal regulations affecting financial services companies generally. We operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision by several governmental regulatory agencies, including the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the Georgia Department. Regulation of the financial institutions industry has undergone extensive changes in recent years and continues to change. We cannot predict the effects of these changes, and the regulations now affecting us may be modified at any time, and could adversely affect our business. In addition, any burden that may be imposed on us by federal or state regulations may create a relative competitive disadvantage to our less regulated competitors. Finally, we cannot predict the effect of any legislation which may be passed at the state or federal level in response to the recent deterioration of the subprime, mortgage, credit and liquidity markets. The Bank’s Ability to Pay Dividends Is Limited The Company’s only source of funds for the payment of principal of, and interest on, its indebtedness, as well as for the payment of dividends on our common stock, is from dividends paid by the Bank. As a result, our success and ability to pay dividends on our common stock depend upon the earnings and capital position of the Bank. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends is limited by its obligation to maintain sufficient capital and by other general restrictions on its dividends that are applicable to Georgia banks and banks that are regulated by the FDIC. Generally, a bank cannot, without prior regulatory approval, pay more dividends than its earnings for the current year or its retained earnings for the last two years. A Georgia bank may not, without prior regulatory approval, pay dividends of more than 50% of the previous year’s after-tax profits. Please see “Supervision and Regulation” for a more detailed description of these limitations. We May Face Risks With Respect to Future Acquisitions or Mergers We may engage in acquisitions or mergers in the future. We also from time to time receive inquiries and have discussions with potential acquirers. Any future acquisitions and mergers in which we might engage involve a number of risks to us, including: • the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners; • our ability to finance any acquisition that we may make; • possible dilution to our existing shareholders; • the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction, and the integration of the assets, operations of personnel of the combining businesses; • our entry into new markets, as a result of an acquisition, where we lack experience; • the acquisition of loan portfolios that may be negatively affected by current developments in the local and general economies; • the introduction of new products and services into our business; • possible adverse effects on our results of operations and capital adequacy; • the incurrence and possible write-off of goodwill and intangibles resulting from an acquisition; and • the risk of loss of key employees and customers. 19 There can be no assurance that, following any mergers or acquisitions, whether we acquire someone or are acquired, the integration efforts will be successful. Our Financial Condition and Outlook May be Adversely Impacted by Damage to our Reputation Our financial condition and outlook is highly dependent upon perceptions of our business practices and reputation. Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation is damaged. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. Damage to our reputation could give rise to legal risks, which, in turn, could increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur related costs and expenses. We Rely on Our Executive Officers Who Would Be Difficult to Replace Our success depends, and is expected to continue to depend, on our executive officers. In particular, we rely on J. Donald Boggus, Jr., President and Chief Executive Officer of Crescent and the Bank, Leland W. Brantley, Jr., Chief Financial Officer of Crescent and the Bank, Anthony N. Stancil, Executive Vice President and Chief of Loan Production of the Bank, A. Bradley Rutledge, Sr., Executive Vice President and Chief of Loan Administration of the Bank, and Bonnie B. Boling, Executive Vice President and Retail Administrator of the Bank. Our growth will continue to place significant demands on our management, and the loss of these executive officers’ services could harm our future operations. Our Rights to Collect Interest and Take Other Actions May Be Limited by the Service Members’ Civil Relief Act of 2003 The United States declared “war” on terrorism and National Guard and reserve forces either have been called up or may be called up for domestic and international service. Under the Service Members’ Civil Relief Act of 2003 (the “Relief Act”), which amended and expanded the Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Civil Relief Act of 1940, a borrower who enters military service is afforded various types of relief under their loans and other obligations, including a maximum annual interest rate of 6% during the period of the borrower’s active duty status. The Act further provides that any interest in excess of 6% may not become due once the service member leaves active duty; any accrued interest above 6% is permanently waived. The Relief Act applies to members of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, National Guard, Reserves, Coast Guard and officers of the U.S. Public Health Service assigned to active duty. Because the Relief Act applies to individuals who enter active military service after they enter into their loans, we cannot predict the effect that the Relief Act will have on our mortgage and commercial loans, if any. Under the Relief Act, we may be unable to collect the full amount of interest otherwise due on many of our loans for an indefinite period. Further, we may be unable to foreclose on these loans during, and in some cases after, the borrower’s period of active duty. We May Incur Obligations Related to Our Discontinued Wholesale Mortgage Banking Operations Prior to the sale of our wholesale residential mortgage banking business on December 31, 2003, we originated residential mortgage loans through our subsidiary, CMS. When we sold these loans, we made certain representations and warranties to the purchasers and insurers that we had properly originated and serviced the loans under state laws, investor guidelines and program eligibility standards. In some cases, we indemnified the purchasers for unpaid principal and interest on defaulted loans if we had breached the representations and warranties with respect to the loans that we sold. At December 31, 2008, we had approximately $1.5 million of mortgage loans where we had agreed to indemnify the purchaser against losses it might suffer. While we established a reserve based upon an estimated recourse liability at December 31, 2008 of approximately $1.7 million, this reserve was based upon historical information and certain assumptions by management. Because the Company’s highest levels of mortgage production in its history were in 2002 and 2003, we could experience an increase in our indemnification liability in the future. If the balance of indemnified loan increases significantly, then we could have to make additional provisions to the recourse liability reserve. In addition, if our recourse reserve is less than our actual indemnification obligations, we would be required to pay the indemnification obligations out of earnings, and our results of operations would be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 