ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as the risk factors and uncertainties discussed in our other public filings with the SEC under the caption “Risk Factors” in evaluating us and our business and making or continuing an investment in our securities. The risks contained in this Form 10-K are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks that are not presently known, or that we presently deem to be immaterial, also could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects. The trading price of our securities could decline due to the materialization of any of these risks, and our shareholders may lose all or part of their investment. This Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that may not be realized as a result of certain factors, including, but not limited to, the risks described herein and in our other public filings with the SEC. Please refer to the section in this Form 10-K entitled “Special Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” for additional information regarding forward-looking statements. We Have Stipulated to a Cease and Desist Order with the FDIC and the Georgia Department, Which Will Restrict our Operations; Failure to Comply with this Order Can Result in Significant Penalties Under applicable laws, the FDIC, as our deposit insurer, and the Georgia Department, as our chartering authority, have the ability to impose substantial sanctions, restrictions and requirements on us if they determine, upon examination or otherwise, violations of laws with which we must comply, or weaknesses or failures with respect to general standards of safety and soundness. Applicable law prohibits disclosure of specific examination findings by the institution, although formal enforcement actions are routinely disclosed by the regulatory authorities. Following examinations of the operations of the Bank that were completed in July 2008 and based upon the Bank’s June 30, 2008 financial information, the FDIC and the Georgia Department issued the Order to the Bank. On May 11, 2009, we stipulated to the Order. The Order alleged, among other things, the following unsafe and unsound practices and violations of law and/or regulations: operating with a board of directors that has failed to provide adequate supervision over and direction to the management of the Bank; operating with management whose policies and practices are detrimental to the Bank and jeopardize the safety of its deposits; operating with marginally adequate equity capital and reserves in relation to the volume and quality of assets held by the Bank; operating with an excessive level of adversely classified items; operating with inadequate provisions for liquidity and funds management; operating with hazardous loan underwriting and administration practices; operating in such a manner as to produce operating losses; and operating in apparent violation of certain laws, regulations and/or statements of policy. The Order requires that we implement a number of actions, including developing a written analysis and assessment of our management and staffing needs; increasing our board of director’s participation in our affairs; having and retaining qualified management, including a chief executive officer responsible for the supervision of the lending function and a senior lending officer with experience in upgrading a low quality loan portfolio. The Order further requires us to increase our capital so that we have a minimum Tier 1 Capital Ratio of 8.0% and a minimum Total Risk Based Capital Ratio of at least 10.0% within 120 days of the effective date of the Order; eliminate certain classified assets not previously collected or charged-off; reduce risk exposure with respect to certain problem assets; cease the extension of additional credit to certain borrowers; implement a plan to improve our lending practices; implement a plan for reducing credit concentration; establish and maintain a policy to ensure the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses; formulate and implement a plan to improve earnings; implement an assets/liability management policy; develop and implement a written liquidity contingency funding plan; obtain a waiver from the FDIC prior to accepting, renewing or rolling over brokered deposits; review and implement Bank Secrecy Act compliance; and eliminate or correct all apparent violations of law. In the event we are in material non-compliance with the terms of the Order, our regulators have the authority to subject us to the terms of a more restrictive enforcement order, to impose civil money penalties on us and our directors and officers, and to remove directors and officers from their positions with the Bank. In addition, due to the imposition of the Order, we will be subject to heightened scrutiny by regulatory authorities and could suffer damage to our reputation. 19 We have entered into a Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, which Places Significant Restrictions on our Operations We entered into the Agreement with the FRB Atlanta and the Georgia Commissioner, effective July 16, 2009. The Agreement limits our ability to directly or indirectly receive from the Bank dividends or any form of payment representing a reduction in capital of the Bank without the prior written approval of the FRB Atlanta and the Georgia Commissioner. The Agreement also limits our ability to declare or pay any dividends unless certain conditions are satisfied. The Agreement further limits our ability to make any distributions of interest, principal or other sums on subordinated debentures or trust preferred securities without the prior written approval of the FRB Atlanta, the Director and the Georgia Commissioner. In addition, we are prohibited from directly or indirectly incurring, increasing or guaranteeing any debt and purchasing or redeeming any shares of our common stock, in each case, without the prior written approval of the FRB Atlanta and the Georgia Commissioner. The Agreement requires us to implement a number of actions, including submitting to the FRB Atlanta and the Georgia Commissioner a written capital plan to maintain sufficient capital at the Company on a consolidated basis, and at the Bank on a stand-alone basis and submitting a written progress report to the FRB Atlanta and the Georgia Commissioner within 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter. In the event we are in material non-compliance with the terms of the Agreement, our regulators have the authority to subject us to the terms of a more restrictive enforcement order, to impose civil money penalties on us and our directors and officers, and to remove directors and officers from their positions with the Bank. In addition, due to our entry into the Agreement, we will be subject to heightened scrutiny by regulatory authorities and could suffer damage to our reputation. Our Liquidity Continues to Suffer, and Funding to Provide Liquidity May Not Be Available to Us on Favorable Terms or At All Our success and ongoing viability is dependent on our ability to raise sufficient capital and improve our liquidity position. In recent periods, a number of factors have placed significant stress on our liquidity, including increases in our non-performing assets, increases in our allowance for loan losses, increases in loan demand, increased competition for deposits in our primary market area and decreases in interest rates. These factors also have contributed to compression of our net interest margin and net income. We have historically had access to a number of alternative sources of liquidity, but given the recent and dramatic downturn in the credit and liquidity markets and our entry into the Order with the FDIC and the Georgia Department, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain such liquidity on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. For example, financial institutions may be unwilling to extend credit to banks because of concerns about the banking industry and the economy generally and, given recent downturns in the economy, there may not be a viable market for raising equity capital. In addition, because the Bank is below the well capitalized requirements of the FDICIA, the Bank cannot originate or renew brokered deposits and is limited in the rates that it can offer on deposits generally. From April 2010 through December 2010, the Bank has approximately $120 million in brokered and out-of market deposits maturing, and, if the Bank does not return to a well capitalized position, then it will not be able to renew these deposits. Therefore, the Bank may have to increase deposit rates in its local markets in the future, which would adversely affect its net interest margin and net income. However, there are regulatory limitations on the Bank’s ability to raise interest rates in its local markets to attract deposits. If the Bank is unable to offer competitive rates on its deposits in local markets, then its liquidity would be adversely affected. Finally, as a result of our financial condition, the FHLB suspended our line of credit during the second quarter of 2009, and our access to federal funds lines of credit from correspondent institutions may be restricted or unavailable in the future. If liquidity sources are unavailable to us, or are available only on unfavorable terms, then our liquidity, net interest margin and net income, will be adversely affected and could impair our viability. We are Heavily Regulated by Federal and State Agencies; Changes in Laws and Regulations or Failures to Comply with Such Laws and Regulations May Adversely Affect Our Operations and Our Financial Results We are heavily regulated at the federal and state levels. This regulation is designed primarily to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including interpretation and implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, including EESA, the Financial Stability Plan and the ARRA could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer. While we cannot predict the regulatory changes that may be borne out of the current economic crisis, and we cannot predict whether we will become subject to increased regulatory scrutiny by any of these regulatory agencies, any regulatory changes or scrutiny could be expensive for us to address and/or could result in our changing the way that we do business. Federal and state regulators have the ability to impose substantial sanctions, restrictions and requirements on us if they determine, upon examination or otherwise, violations of laws with which we must comply, or weaknesses or failures with respect to general standards 20 of safety and soundness. Such enforcement actions may be formal or informal and can include directors’ resolutions, memoranda of understanding, cease and desist orders, civil money penalties and termination of deposit insurance and bank closures. The imposition of regulatory sanctions, including monetary penalties, may have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations, and damage our reputation. In addition, compliance with any such action could distract management’s attention from our operations, cause us to incur significant expenses, restrict us from engaging in potentially profitable activities, and limit our ability to raise capital. If We Are Deemed to Have Insufficient Capital, We Could Face Prompt Corrective Action, Which Could Result in Additional Restrictions on Our Activities, Receivership or Conservatorship Institutions that are not sufficiently capitalized in accordance with regulatory standards may face capital directives or prompt corrective action. Significantly undercapitalized depository institutions may be subject to a number of requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized, to be acquired by a bank or thrift holding company or to be combined with another insured depository institution, to limit certain affiliate transactions, to restrict interest rates paid on deposits, to restrict asset growth or reduce total assets, to alter or eliminate any activities that pose excessive risk, to improve management through a new election of the board of directors, dismissals, or the hiring of new executives, to cease accepting deposits from correspondent banks, to prohibit capital distributions by the institution’s holding company, to require divestitures by the holding company, and to require other appropriate action. The appropriate federal banking agency is expected by statute to require the sale of voting shares or to become acquired or combined, to limit affiliate transactions, and to restrict interest rates on deposits. A critically undercapitalized institution is subject to the appointment by the appropriate federal banking agency of a receiver or conservator, generally within 90 days of the date on which it becomes critically undercapitalized, unless the agency determines in writing (with the concurrence of the FDIC, if the FDIC is not already the appropriate federal banking agency) that other action would resolve the institution at the least possible long-term loss to the deposit insurance fund. If a conservator or receiver is not appointed, the agency must redetermine every 90 days whether to appoint a conservator or receiver or whether to take alternative action. If the insured depository institution is, on average, critically undercapitalized for 270 days, then a receiver must be appointed unless the agency determines that such institution has positive net worth, has been in substantial compliance with an approved capital restoration plan which requires consistent improvement in the institution’s capital since the date of the approval of the plan, is profitable or has an upward trend in earnings that the agency projects as sustainable, is reducing its ratio of nonperforming loans to total loans, and the head of the agency (as well as the Chairman of the FDIC, if different from the agency) certifies that the institution is both viable and not expected to fail. After 60 days of becoming critically undercapitalized, an insured depository institution is prohibited from paying principal or interest on subordinated debt without FDIC approval. In addition, several other restrictions, much like the discretionary limitations described above for significantly undercapitalized institutions, automatically take effect. FDIC approval is required for a critically undercapitalized institution to engage in certain activities, including but not limited to, entering into any material transaction other than in the usual course of business, extending credit for any highly leveraged transaction, making any material change in accounting methods, amending its articles or bylaws, engaging in any “covered transaction” with an affiliate (as defined in section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act), paying excessive compensation or bonuses, and paying interest on deposits in excess of the prevailing rate in the institution’s market area. Additional restrictions may be imposed on significantly or critically undercapitalized institutions at the regulators’ discretion, including but not limited to, terminating, reducing or altering activities that pose excessive risk to the institution, requiring the institution to elect a new board of directors, to dismiss any director or senior executive officer or to employ new senior executive officers, and prohibiting any controlling bank holding company from making any capital distributions without prior approval. The imposition of a prompt corrective action could impact our ability to continue operations. Our Independent Registered Public Accountant has Expressed Substantial Doubt about our Ability to Continue as a Going Concern Our independent registered public accountant in their audit report for fiscal years 2008 and 2009 has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Continued operations depend on our ability to raise additional capital, which we may be unable to accomplish in this weakened economic environment. The potential lack of sources of liquidity raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern for the foreseeable future. Our audited financial statements were prepared under the assumption that we will continue our operations on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the discharge of liabilities in the normal course of business. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if we are unable to continue as a going concern. If we cannot continue as a going concern, our shareholders will lose some or all of their investment in the Company. The Agreement Currently Limits Our Ability to Receive Dividends from the Bank, a Primary Source of our Liquidity The primary source of our liquidity, as a bank holding company, is dividends from the Bank, which is governed by certain rules and regulations of various state and federal banking regulatory agencies. The Agreement with the FRB Atlanta and the Georgia Commissioner limits our ability to directly or indirectly receive dividends from the Bank, or any form of payment representing a reduction in capital of the Bank, without the prior written approval of the FRB Atlanta and the Georgia Commissioner. The loss of this source of liquidity will adversely affect our financial condition. 21 Our Access to Certain Lines of Credit May be Restricted or Unavailable At December 31, 2009, we had approximately $14.5 million of federal funds lines of credit available from correspondent institutions. Based upon our financial condition and weak capital position, our access to the federal funds lines of credit could be restricted in 2010 and may not be available at all, which will negatively impact our liquidity and general financial condition. During the second quarter of 2009, the FHLB suspended our line of credit due to the financial condition of the Bank. The Bank can renew its current advances as they mature, however we cannot borrow additional advances at this time. The Current and Further Deterioration of the Residential Mortgage Market Likely Will Result In Further Increases In Our Non-Performing Assets and Allowance for Loan Losses, and Make It More Difficult For Us to Recover Our Losses with Respect to Defaulted Loans Beginning in the third quarter of 2007, there were well-publicized developments in the credit, liquidity and real estate markets, beginning with a decline in the sub-prime mortgage lending market, which later extended to the markets for collateralized mortgage obligations, mortgage-backed securities and the lending markets generally. This dramatic decline in the real estate markets, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, which continued throughout 2008 and 2009, has resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored and major commercial investment banks. There have also been restrictions in the resale markets for non-conforming loans, which have had an adverse effect on retail mortgage lending operations in many markets. In light of these market conditions, we regularly reassess the market value of our loan portfolio, the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the sufficiency of our allowance for loan losses. Our allowance for loan losses increased from 2.84% at December 31, 2008 to 3.82% at December 31, 2009. We made a provision for loan losses of approximately $26.2 million during 2009 and we charged-off approximately $20.5 million in loans in 2009. The Bank has taken an aggressive approach and charged-off the balances based upon the current downturn in the economy and real estate market. Of the total amount of charge-offs during 2009, $14.3 million was related to our ADC loan portfolio, where the Bank has seen significant deterioration in asset quality, including an increase in the inability of some borrowers to make payments and declines in the value and marketability of underlying collateral. The increase in the provision for loan losses was due to an increase in classified loans and non-performing assets (which is comprised of non-accrual loans and other real estate owned by us as a result of foreclosures). We will likely experience further increases in classified loans and non-performing assets in the foreseeable future, as well as related increases in loan charge-offs, as the deterioration in the credit and real estate markets causes borrowers to default. During 2009, the Bank’s impaired loans increased $175.3 million, or 267%, from $65.6 million at December 31, 2008 to $240.9 million at December 31, 2009, non-performing loans increased $51.9 million, or 141%, from $36.8 million at December 31, 2008 to $88.7 million at December 31, 2009 and foreclosed properties increased $17.3 million, or 67%, from $25.8 million at December 31, 2008 to $43.1 million at December 31, 2009. The main sector of the Bank’s loan portfolio that experienced this deterioration was its ADC loans. The Bank’s impaired loans, non-performing loans and foreclosed properties related to its construction and acquisition and development loan portfolio increased $103.9 million, $30.9 million and $16.9 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2009. Further, the value of the collateral underlying a given loan, and the realizable value of such collateral in a foreclosure sale, likely will be negatively affected by the recent downturn in the real estate market, and therefore may result in our inability to realize a full recovery in the event that a borrower defaults on a loan. In addition, when we take collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related loan to the then fair market value of the collateral, which is referred to as “mark-to-market” accounting. Any further increase in our non-performing assets, any increase in our loan charge-offs, any further increase in our provision for loan losses (whether as the result of new real estate appraisals, loan evaluations or otherwise) or any inability by us to realize the full value of underlying collateral in the event of a loan default and mark-to-market valuation of collateral will negatively affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, capital position, operating results, cash flow and the price of our securities. We May Be Unable to Renew Out-Of-Market Deposits Maturing in 2010 Based on Our Capital Position Because we are currently below the well-capitalized requirements of the FDICIA, we cannot acquire brokered deposits and we are limited in the rates we are able to offer on out-of-market deposits. From April 2010 to December 2010, we have approximately $120 million in brokered out-of-market deposits maturing. If we do not improve our capital position and return to a well-capitalized position, we will likely be unable to renew these out-of-market deposits and we may be required to increase our deposit rate in our local markets, which would adversely impact our net interest margin. 22 If We Cannot Meet the Nasdaq Capital Market Maintenance Requirements and Nasdaq Rules, Nasdaq May Delist Our Common Stock, Which Could Negatively Affect the Price of the Common Stock and Your Ability to Dispose of or Obtain Accurate Quotations As to the Market Price of Our Common Stock In the future, we may not be able to meet the listing maintenance requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market and Nasdaq rules, which require, among other things, a minimum bid price for our common stock of $1.00. On January 13, 2010, we received a Nasdaq staff deficiency notice indicating that we were no longer in compliance with Nasdaq Rule 5550(a)(2) because the closing bid price per share of our common stock was below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days. We were provided with 180 calendar days, or until July 12, 2010 to regain compliance with this rule. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with this bid price rule. We may violate this rule or other Nasdaq requirements in the future. If we are unable to satisfy Nasdaq criteria for maintaining listing, our common stock would be subject to delisting. Trading, if any, of our common stock would thereafter be conducted in the over-the-counter (“OTC”) market, in the so-called “pink sheets” or on the OTC “electronic bulletin board.” As a consequence of any such delisting, our stockholders would find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations, as to the prices of our common stock. New Rules That Take Effect in July 2010 Will Limit Our Ability to Charge Overdraft Fees New rules regarding overdraft charges for every day debit card and ATM transactions will take effect on July 1, 2010. These rules will do away with the automatic overdraft protection arrangements now in common use and will require us to notify and obtain the consent of customers before enrolling them in an overdraft protection plan. The new rules will limit the Bank’s ability to charge fees for the payment of overdrafts for every day debit and ATM card transactions and will reduce our non-interest income. Downturns in General and Local Economic Conditions Could Negatively Affect Our Business Crescent Bank is a community bank operating in the market area comprised of Pickens, Bartow, Forsyth, north Fulton, Cherokee, Dawson, Cobb, Walton and Gilmer Counties, Georgia. Our success depends on the economic conditions in these counties. Additionally, our ability to diversify and manage economic risks is limited by the performance of these local economies. Any significant downturn in these local economies will likely affect our loan demand as well as the value of the collateral that secures these loans. Our market area is primarily retail-oriented and our operations are dependent upon local individuals and small- to medium-sized businesses. As a result, we may face greater lending and credit risks than financial institutions lending to larger, better-capitalized businesses. In addition, any economic slowdown or recession over a prolonged period or other similar economic problems in our market area may be accompanied by reduced demand for consumer credit and declining real estate values in these areas, which may in turn result in an increased possibility of loss in the event of default. Any sustained period of decreased economic activity and increased delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could harm our growth and the results of our banking operations. Because approximately 94% of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, any further downturn in the real estate markets in our primary market area would adversely affect our business and operations. The Failure of Other Banks Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and the Results of Our Banking Operations Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and potential failures of other banking institutions, both nationally and in our market area. From January 2009 until March 2010, 32 of the 181 banks closed nationally, or approximately 18%, have occurred in the State of Georgia. Banks are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. We have exposure to many different counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with a variety of counterparties in the banking industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or concerns about, one or more institutions with whom we do business, or the banking industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our Net Interest Income Could Be Negatively Affected By Interest Rate Adjustments, Which Would Negatively Affect our Financial Condition Net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on interest-earning assets, such as investment securities and loans, and the interest expense that we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings, is our primary source of income. Our net interest income is, in turn, our primary source of funding for our operations, including extending credit and reserving for loan losses. As a result, any change in general market interest rates, including changes in the Federal Reserve Board’s fiscal and monetary policies, can have a significant impact on our net interest income and total income. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 21% of our commercial banking loan portfolio has a variable rate without a floor, which adjusts 23 with changes in the prime rate, while 79% of our commercial banking loan portfolio has either a fixed rate or a variable rate with a floor, which means that the interest rate associated with such loans will not change until the fixed rate loans mature or until prime rates increase to a rate that is higher than the variable rate loan floors. Most of the floors on our variable rate loans are between 5.00% and 7.50%. In addition, approximately $207.3 million of our deposits are in interest bearing checking accounts that could reprice immediately in the event of any changes in interest rates, while approximately $573.9 million of our certificates of deposit mature and reprice within one year. In total, approximately 87% of our deposits could reprice within one year. More of the Bank’s interest bearing liabilities have the potential to reprice over the next year than the Bank’s interest earning assets, making the Bank liability sensitive. This reduction in net interest income likely will be exacerbated by increases in our provision for loan losses and by the high level of competition that we face in our primary market area, which requires us to offer more attractive interest rates to borrowers, both on loans and deposits, and to rely upon out-of-market funding sources. Any reduction in our net interest income will negatively affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, operating results, cash flow and/or the price of our securities. We Face Credit Risks and Our Allowance for Loan Losses May Be Insufficient We may suffer losses because borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform their obligations in accordance with the terms of their loans. We also are exposed to risks that the realizable value of collateral securing loans may be insufficient to provide a full recovery in the event a borrower defaults on a loan. A significant portion of our net income is derived from our loan portfolio. Our credit policies and underwriting and credit monitoring procedures may not be adequate and we may be unable to anticipate unexpected losses that could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. We have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. While this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the establishment of loan losses is an estimate based upon experience, judgment, estimates and expectations regarding our borrowers, the economies in which we and our borrowers operate, as well as the judgments of our regulators. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our loan loss reserves will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses. In addition, the downturn in the credit market may result in a level of defaults in excess of the estimates upon which our reserves are based, and the deterioration in the real estate market may result in certain loans in our portfolio being under-collateralized. When we evaluate collateral-dependent impaired loans for loan loss reserves, we base the valuation allowance, if needed, on the updated appraised value of the underlying collateral, less estimated selling costs. If actual losses exceed our estimates and we increase our provision for loan losses, or if we are unable to realize the full value on the sale of any real estate collateral, our net income would decrease. During 2007, our loan portfolio grew by approximately $117.9 million, or approximately 17%. Given the relatively young age of a large portion of our loan portfolio, there may be unidentified risk since problems related to loan collections typically do not become evident until some time after the loans are originated. During 2008 and 2009, our loan portfolio actually declined $29.8 million, or 4% and $53.8 million, or 7%, respectively. The Bank made the strategic decision to slow loan growth in 2008 and 2009 and focus on asset quality and core deposit growth. Further, state and federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and our allowance for loan losses. Regulators, when reviewing our loan portfolio, may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, which would negatively affect our net income. Because a Significant Portion of Our Loan Portfolio Is Secured By Real Estate, Any Negative Conditions Affecting Real Estate May Harm Our Business Approximately 94% of our loan portfolio consists of commercial and consumer loans that are secured by various types of real estate, the value and marketability of which are sensitive to economic conditions and interest rates. In addition, these loans are subject to the risk that the local real estate markets will be overbuilt or will otherwise experience deterioration in value, driving down the value and marketability of the real estate that secures these loans. The current decline in the real estate markets may cause a decrease in collateral values, which could increase our costs and time of collection, as well as the amount of potential losses we may incur on loans secured by real estate. Commercial real estate or “CRE” is cyclical and poses risks of possible loss due to concentration levels and similar risks of the asset. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $413.5 million in CRE loans, or approximately 57% of our loan portfolio. Our CRE loans have declined by approximately $66.8 million, or 14%, since December 31, 2008. The banking regulators are giving CRE lending greater scrutiny, and may require banks with higher levels of CRE loans to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly higher levels of allowances for possible losses and capital levels as a result of CRE lending growth and exposures, which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operation. 24 We Have Large Loan Balances with a Small Number of Borrowers Who Could Be Affected by Recent Trends in the Mortgage Lending and Real Estate Markets We have approximately $76.0 million in loans outstanding to three borrowers. These loans are secured by retail and residential real estate developments. If the current downward trends in the mortgage lending and real estate market continue, these three borrowers may be unable to perform their obligations under the loan agreements, and the collateral securing these loans may decline in value or become unmarketable. A default by any of these borrowers or on any other large loans in our portfolio, or any group of loans secured by similar collateral or affected by similar market conditions, would adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Concern by Customers over Deposit Insurance May Cause a Decrease in Deposits and Changes in the Mix of Funding Sources Available to Us With recent increased concerns about bank failures, customers increasingly are concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit with their bank is fully insured and some may seek deposit products or other bank savings and investment products that are collateralized. Decreases in deposits and changes in the mix of funding sources may adversely affect our funding costs and net income. The Impact of Emergency Measures Designed to Stabilize the U.S. Banking System is Unknown Since mid-2008, a host of legislation and regulatory actions have been implemented in response to the financial crisis and the recession. Some of the programs are beginning to expire and the impact of the wind-down of these programs on the financial sector, including our counterparties, and on the economic recovery is unknown. • The Troubled Asset Relief Program, established pursuant to the EESA legislation, is scheduled to expire on October 3, 2010. TARP includes the Capital Purchase Program, pursuant to which the Treasury is authorized to purchase senior preferred stock and warrants to purchase common stock of participating financial institutions. Also under TARP, the Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments, from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Recent indications from the Treasury are that TARP funds may be used to stimulate small business lending and to support mortgage loan modification efforts. • The Treasury guarantee on money market mutual funds established on September 19, 2008 expired on September 18, 2009 and the Treasury did not extend the program. • On September 9, 2009, the FDIC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking requesting comments on whether a temporary emergency facility should be left in place following the expiration on October 31, 2009 of the Temporary Liquidity Guaranty program, which guarantees certain senior unsecured debt of banks and certain holding companies. The Transaction Account Guarantee portion of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, which guarantees noninterest bearing bank transaction accounts on an unlimited basis, expires on June 30, 2010. • Since 2008, the Federal Reserve has purchased several billion dollars of mortgage-related assets in order to support the mortgage lending industry during the financial crisis. The Federal Reserve is beginning to reduce its balance sheet as the financial crisis appears to abate, with the result that the supply of mortgage related assets on the market may increase substantially. • As part of its response to the financial crisis, the Federal Reserve has maintained interest rates at historically low levels. The chairman of the Federal Reserve has indicated that rates will remain low at least for several months in 2010, but an increase in rates could occur in the coming year. In addition, a stall in the economic recovery could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. Future Legislation Could Impact Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations Congress is considering additional proposals to substantially change the financial institution regulatory system and to expand or contract the powers of banking institutions and bank holding companies. Such legislation may significantly change existing banking statutes and regulations, as well as our current operating environment. If enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, impose new operational requirements, increase our consumer compliance obligations, limit or expand our 25 permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. We cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any regulations, would have on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We Have a Significant Amount of Construction Loans That Pose Additional Risks to Those Risks Posed By Real Estate Loans Generally Historically, our loan portfolio has included a significant number of construction loans consisting of one-to-four family residential construction loans, commercial construction loans and land loans for residential and commercial development. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 37% of our total loan portfolio was in ADC loans. In addition to the risk of nonpayment by borrowers and risks associated with the fact that these loans generally bear interest at variable rates, construction lending poses additional risks that affect the ability of borrowers to repay loans and that affect the value and marketability of real estate collateral, such as: • land values may decline; • developers, builders or owners may fail to complete or develop projects; • municipalities may place moratoriums on building, utility connections or required certifications; • developers may fail to sell the improved real estate; • there may be construction delays and cost overruns; • collateral may prove insufficient; or • permanent financing may not be obtained in a timely manner. Any of these conditions could negatively affect our net income and our financial condition. During 2009, we reduced our construction loans $73.8 million, or 21%, from 2008. The Bank limited any new construction loans in 2008 and 2009 due to the declining real estate market. We Occasionally Purchase Non-Recourse Loan Participations From Other Banks Based on Information Provided By the Selling Bank From time to time, we purchase loan participations from other banks in the ordinary course of business, usually without recourse to the selling bank. This may occur during times when we are experiencing excess liquidity in an effort to improve our profitability. When we purchase loan participations we apply the same underwriting standards as we would to loans that we directly originate and seek to purchase only loans that would satisfy these standards. We are less likely to be familiar with the borrower and the economic conditions in the borrower’s and the selling bank’s local market, and may rely to some extent on information provided to us by the selling bank and on the selling bank’s administration of the loan relationship. We therefore have less control over, and may incur greater risk and losses with respect to, loan participations that we purchase. We are Currently In Default on a Line of Credit, Which is Secured by all of the Issued and Outstanding Shares of the Common Stock of the Bank We received notice from a financial institution on November 12, 2009, that an event of default exists under our loan agreement with such financial institution, and demanding payment of the amount outstanding pursuant to the loan. On December 28, 2009, the Company negotiated a renewal on the line of credit for six months until June 27, 2010. During this period, interest will be paid monthly at prime rate, as reported in the Wall Street Journal, floating with a 6.00% floor. In connection with this renewal, the Company paid down $1,650,000 of the line of credit with funds contributed by CMS to the Company and from funds received through an income tax refund in 2009. The line of credit was frozen at the current balance of $3,918,509. The line of credit is secured by all of the issued and outstanding shares of the common stock of the Bank. In the event of an uncured default under this line of credit, the lender could foreclose upon the common stock of the Bank and deprive the Company of its principal source of income. The Company is currently in default related to its minimum capital ratios covenants and its minimum book value covenant and has not received a waiver from the lender related to falling below these minimum covenant levels. 26 We Will Realize Additional Future Losses if the Proceeds we Receive Upon Liquidation of Non-Performing Assets are Less than the Fair Value of Such Assets We have developed a disciplined strategy to dispose of non-performing assets, a portion of which may not be currently identified. Non-performing assets are recorded on our financial statements at fair value, as required under GAAP, unless these assets have been specifically identified for liquidation, in which case they are recorded at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value. In current market conditions, dispositions of non-performing assets likely will result in proceeds that are significantly less than the recorded fair value of such assets, which will result in additional future realized losses that negatively affect our financial results. Our Use of Appraisals in Deciding Whether to Make a Loan On or Secured by Real Property or How to Value Such Loan in the Future May Not Accurately Describe the Net Value of the Real Property Collateral that We Can Realize We generally require an appraisal of the property when considering whether to make a loan secured by real property. However, an appraisal is only an estimate of the value of the property at the time the appraisal is made, and, as real estate values in our market area have experienced recent volatility, this estimate might not accurately describe the net value of the real property collateral after the loan has been closed. If the appraisal does not reflect the amount that may be obtained upon any sale or foreclosure of the property, we may not realize an amount equal to the indebtedness secured by the property. The valuation of the property may negatively impact the continuing value of such loan and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We Face Strong Competition The commercial banking business is highly competitive. We compete with a variety of financial institutions, including the following: • commercial banks; • savings banks; • savings and loan associations; • credit unions; • mortgage companies; • mutual funds; • insurance companies; • brokerage and investment banking firms; • securities firms; • non-financial entities maintaining credit programs; and • government organizations and government sponsored entities. Many of these competitors have much greater resources and lending limits, more diversified markets and larger branch networks, and are able to offer similar and additional services more efficiently than we can. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. We generally have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Several of our competitors are well-established and much larger financial institutions, and we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size and lack of geographic diversification. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the extensive regulations that we are. Any future federal or state legislation could further affect this level of competition. In addition, as a result of recent developments in the credit and liquidity markets, many of our competitors in our primary market area, in order to attract deposits, have recently offered interest rates on certificates of deposit and other products that we are unable to offer. If we cannot effectively compete for deposits in our primary market area, our liquidity could come under further pressure, and we may be unable to fund our operations. We may also be forced to rely more heavily on out-of-market deposits, the cost of which could cause a decrease in our net interest margin. 27 Our Business Is Highly Regulated Our success depends not only on competitive factors but also on state and federal regulations affecting financial services companies generally. We operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision by several governmental regulatory agencies, including the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the Georgia Department. Regulation of the financial institutions industry has undergone extensive changes in recent years and continues to change. We cannot predict the effects of these changes, and the regulations now affecting us may be modified at any time, and could adversely affect our business. In addition, any burden that may be imposed on us by federal or state regulations may create a relative competitive disadvantage to our less regulated competitors. Finally, we cannot predict the effect of any legislation which may be passed at the state or federal level in response to the recent deterioration of the subprime, mortgage, credit and liquidity markets. We May Face Risks With Respect to Future Acquisitions or Mergers If we are able to obtain adequate capital, we may engage in acquisitions or mergers in the future. We also from time to time receive inquiries and have discussions with potential acquirers. Any future acquisitions and mergers in which we might engage involve a number of risks to us, including: • the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners; • our ability to finance any acquisition that we may make; • possible dilution to our existing shareholders; • the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction, and the integration of the assets, operations of personnel of the combining businesses; • our entry into new markets, as a result of an acquisition, where we lack experience; • the acquisition of loan portfolios that may be negatively affected by current developments in the local and general economies; • the introduction of new products and services into our business; • possible adverse effects on our results of operations and capital adequacy; • the incurrence and possible write-off of goodwill and intangibles resulting from an acquisition; and • the risk of loss of key employees and customers. There can be no assurance that, following any mergers or acquisitions, whether we acquire someone or are acquired, the integration efforts will be successful. Our Financial Condition and Outlook May be Adversely Impacted by Damage to our Reputation Our financial condition and outlook is highly dependent upon perceptions of our business practices and reputation. Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation is damaged. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. Damage to our reputation could give rise to legal risks, which, in turn, could increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur related costs and expenses. The Short Term and Long Term Impact of a Likely New Capital Framework Is Uncertain For U.S. banking institutions with assets of less than $250 billion and foreign exposures of less than $10 billion, including the Company and the Bank, a proposal is currently pending that would apply the “standardized approach” of the new risk-based capital standards developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (“Basel II”) to such banks. As a result of the recent deterioration in the global credit markets and increases in credit, liquidity, interest rate, and other risks, the U.S. banking regulators have discussed possible increases in capital requirements, separate from the standardized approach of Basel II. Furthermore, in September 2009, the Treasury issued principles for international regulatory reform, which included recommendations for higher capital standards for all banking organizations to be implemented as part of a broader reconsideration of international risk-based 28 capital standards developed by Basel II. Any new capital framework is likely to affect the cost and availability of different types of credit. U.S. banking organizations are likely to be required to hold higher levels of capital and could incur increased compliance costs. It is unclear at this time if similar increases in capital standards will be incorporated into a revised Basel II proposal that would be adopted by international financial institution. Any of these developments, including increased capital requirements, could have a material negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We Rely on Our Executive Officers Who Would Be Difficult to Replace Our success depends, and is expected to continue to depend, on our executive officers. In particular, we rely on J. Donald Boggus, Jr., President and Chief Executive Officer of Crescent and the Bank, Leland W. Brantley, Jr., Chief Financial Officer of Crescent and the Bank, Anthony N. Stancil, Executive Vice President and Chief of Loan Production of the Bank, A. Bradley Rutledge, Sr., Executive Vice President and Chief of Loan Administration of the Bank, and Bonnie B. Boling, Executive Vice President and Retail Administrator of the Bank. Our growth will continue to place significant demands on our management, and the loss of these executive officers’ services could harm our future operations. Our Rights to Collect Interest and Take Other Actions May Be Limited by the Service Members’ Civil Relief Act of 2003 The United States declared “war” on terrorism and National Guard and reserve forces either have been called up or may be called up for domestic and international service. Under the Service Members’ Civil Relief Act of 2003 (the “Relief Act”), which amended and expanded the Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Civil Relief Act of 1940, a borrower who enters military service is afforded various types of relief under their loans and other obligations, including a maximum annual interest rate of 6% during the period of the borrower’s active duty status. The Act further provides that any interest in excess of 6% may not become due once the service member leaves active duty; any accrued interest above 6% is permanently waived. The Relief Act applies to members of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, National Guard, Reserves, Coast Guard and officers of the U.S. Public Health Service assigned to active duty. Because the Relief Act applies to individuals who enter active military service after they enter into their loans, we cannot predict the effect that the Relief Act will have on our mortgage and commercial loans, if any. Under the Relief Act, we may be unable to collect the full amount of interest otherwise due on many of our loans for an indefinite period. Further, we may be unable to foreclose on these loans during, and in some cases after, the borrower’s period of active duty. We May Incur Obligations Related to Our Discontinued Wholesale Mortgage Banking Operations Prior to the sale of our wholesale residential mortgage banking business on December 31, 2003, we originated residential mortgage loans through our subsidiary, CMS. When we sold these loans, we made certain representations and warranties to the purchasers and insurers that we had properly originated and serviced the loans under state laws, investor guidelines and program eligibility standards. In some cases, we indemnified the purchasers for unpaid principal and interest on defaulted loans if we had breached the representations and warranties with respect to the loans that we sold. At December 31, 2009, we had approximately $1.9 million of mortgage loans where we had agreed to indemnify the purchaser against losses it might suffer. While we established a reserve based upon an estimated recourse liability at December 31, 2009 of approximately $1.4 million, this reserve was based upon historical information and certain assumptions by management. Because the Company’s highest levels of mortgage production in its history were in 2002 and 2003, we could experience an increase in our indemnification liability in the future. If the balance of indemnified loan increases significantly, then we could have to make additional provisions to the recourse liability reserve. In addition, if our recourse reserve is less than our actual indemnification obligations, we would be required to pay the indemnification obligations out of earnings, and our results of operations would be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 