ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS General and Local Economic Conditions Strongly Affect Our Business Crescent Bank is a community bank operating in the market area comprised of Pickens, Bartow, Forsyth, north Fulton, Cherokee, Dawson, Cobb, Walton and Gilmer Counties, Georgia. Our success depends on the economic conditions in these counties and, specifically, in those areas where we operate our offices. Additionally, our ability to diversify and manage economic risks is limited by the performance of these local economies. Any significant downturn in these local economies will likely affect our loan demand as well as the value of the collateral that secures these loans. Our market area is primarily retail-oriented and our operations are dependent upon local individuals and small- to medium-sized businesses. As a result, we may face greater lending and credit risks than financial institutions lending to larger, better-capitalized businesses. In addition, any economic slowdown or recession over a prolonged period or other similar economic problems in our market area may be accompanied by reduced demand for consumer credit and declining real estate values in these areas, which may in turn result in an increased possibility of loss in the event of default. Any sustained period of decreased economic activity and increased delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could harm our growth and the results of our banking operations. Because approximately 94% of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, any further downturn in the real estate markets in our primary market area would adversely affect our business and operations. Changes in Interest Rates May Adversely Affect Our Earnings As a financial institution, our earnings are significantly dependent on our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income we earn on loans, investments and other interest-earning assets and the interest expense we pay on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. Therefore, any change in general market interest rates, including changes resulting from changes in the Federal Reserves fiscal and monetary policies, affects us more than non-financial institutions and can have a significant effect on our net interest income and net income. Our assets and liabilities may react differently to changes in overall market rates or conditions because there may be mismatches between the repricing or maturity characteristics of the assets and liabilities. As a result, an increase or decrease in market interest rates could have material adverse effects on our net interest margin and results of operations. Given the recent reductions in interest rates and the expected continuation of this trend, we expect our income for 2008 to be significantly lower than in previous years. Our Net Interest Income Could Be Negatively Affected By the Federal Reserve’s Recent Interest Rate Adjustments, Recent Developments in the Credit and Real Estate Markets and Competition in Our Primary Market Area Net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on interest-earning assets, such as investment securities and loans, and the interest expense that we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings, is our primary source of income. Our income is in turn our primary source of funding for our operations, including extending credit and reserving for loan losses. In response to the dramatic deterioration of the subprime, mortgage, credit and liquidity markets, the Federal Reserve recently reduced interest rates on three occasions in 2007 by a total of 100 basis points, to 4.25%, and by another 200 basis points, to 2.25%, during the first quarter of 2008. Approximately 60% of our loans, including construction and development loans and other commercial loans, bear interest at variable rates. The interest rates on these loans decrease when the Federal Reserve reduces interest rates, which will reduce our net interest income. Because the deterioration in the credit and real estate markets is likely to cause more borrowers to default and the value of collateral to decline, we increased our provision for loan losses during 2007, and may further increase our provision for loan losses in 2008. In addition, in order to compete for deposits in our primary market areas, we may offer more attractive interest rates to borrowers on deposit accounts and certificates of deposit, and we may increasingly rely on out-of-market or brokered deposits as a source of liquidity. The decrease in interest rates will reduce our net interest income during the first quarter of 2008 and the foreseeable future. This reduction in net interest income likely will be exacerbated by increases in our provision for loan losses and by the high level of competition that we face in our primary market area, which requires us to offer more attractive interest rates to borrowers, both on loans and deposits, and to rely upon out-of-market funding sources. Any reduction in our net interest income will negatively affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, operating results, cash flow and/or the price of our securities. The Deterioration of the Residential Mortgage Market Likely Will Result In Further Increases In Our Non-Performing Assets and Allowance for Loan Losses, and Make It More Difficult For Us to Recover Our Losses with Respect to Defaulted Loans Beginning in the third quarter of 2007, there were well-publicized developments in the credit, liquidity and real estate markets, beginning with a decline in the sub-prime mortgage lending market, which later extended to the markets for collateralized mortgage obligations, mortgage-backed securities and the lending markets generally. This decline has resulted in restrictions in the resale markets for non-conforming loans and has had an adverse effect on retail mortgage lending operations in many markets. In light of these market conditions, we regularly reassess the market value of our loan portfolio, the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the sufficiency of our allowance for loan losses. Our allowance for loan losses increased from 1.15% of total commercial banking loans at December 31, 2006 to 1.21% and we made a provision for loan losses in 2007 that exceeded our provision from 2006 by approximately 32%. This increase was due to an increase in classified loans and non-performing assets (which is comprised of non-accrual loans and other real estate owned by us as a result of foreclosures). We may experience further increases in classified loans and non-performing assets in the foreseeable future, as well as related increases in loan charge-offs, as the deterioration in the credit and real estate markets causes borrowers to default. Further, the value of the collateral underlying a given loan, and the realizable value of such collateral in a foreclosure sale, likely will be negatively affected by the recent downturn in the real estate market, and therefore may result in our being unable to realize a full recovery in the event that a borrower defaults on a loan. Any further increase in our non-performing assets, any increase in our loan charge-offs, any further increase in our provision for loan losses and/or any inability by us to realize the full value of underlying collateral in the event of a loan default, will negatively affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, operating results, cash flow and/or the price of our securities. We Face Credit Risks and Our Allowance for Loan Losses May Be Insufficient We may suffer losses because borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform their obligations in accordance with the terms of their loans. We also are exposed to risks that the realizable value of collateral securing loans may be insufficient to provide a full recovery in the event a borrower defaults on a loan. A significant portion of our net income is derived from our loan portfolio. Our credit policies and underwriting and credit monitoring procedures may not be adequate and we may be unable to avoid unexpected losses that could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. We have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. While this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the establishment of loan losses is an estimate based upon experience, judgment, estimates and expectations regarding our borrowers, the economies in which we and our borrowers operate, as well as the judgments of our regulators. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our loan loss reserves will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses. In addition, the recent downturn in the credit market may result in a level of defaults in excess of the estimates upon which our reserves are based, and the deterioration in the real estate market may result in certain loans in our portfolio being under-collateralized. If actual losses exceed our estimates and we increase our provision for loan losses, or if we are unable to realize the full value on the sale of any real estate collateral, our net income would decrease. During 2006 and 2007, our loan portfolio grew by approximately $118 million and $104 million, or approximately 17% and 17%, respectively. Continued rapid growth in the loan portfolio of this magnitude has the potential to strain the Bank’s administrative capabilities and may result in losses which are, at present, unidentified. Also, given the relatively young age of a large portion of our loan portfolio, there may be unidentified risk since problems related to loan collections typically do not become evident until some time after the loans are originated. Further, state and federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and our allowance for loan losses. Regulators, when reviewing our loan portfolio, may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, which would negatively affect our net income. We May Experience Increased Costs of Liquidity in Future Periods, and Capital May Not Be Available to Us on Favorable Terms or At All In recent periods, we have experienced an increase in non-performing assets, an increase in our allowance for loan losses, an increase in loan demand, and an increase in competition in our primary market area, as well as a decrease in interest rates. Collectively, these factors require us to seek liquidity to fund our operations and, in particular, the origination of new loans, the support of our continued growth and branching and other strategic initiatives. We have historically had access to a number of alternative sources of liquidity, but given the recent downturn in the credit and liquidity markets, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain such liquidity on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. For example, in recent periods we have originated out-of-market deposits as a means of supplementing our deposit growth. Although the cost of out-of-market and brokered deposits are currently below the cost of deposits of similar maturity in the Company’s local market area, and are thus attractive sources to fund our current loan demand, any future increase in the cost of those deposits would make them less attractive as a funding source. If our access to these markets is limited in any way, then our liquidity and ability to support commercial loan demand could be adversely affected. Since June 30, 2006, we have reduced our balances in federal funds sold and interest-bearing deposits with other banks in an effort to improve our net interest margin, which has the effect of reducing available liquidity. In addition, we may require additional capital in the future to, among other things, fund our operations, expand the range of our services and finance our future growth and capital adequacy. We cannot provide any assurance that, at the time we might need this additional capital, additional financing will be available on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Our ability to obtain additional financing will be subject to a number of factors, including market conditions, our operating performance and investor sentiment. In particular, the recent downturn in the credit and liquidity markets may restrict our ability to borrow funds or raise capital on favorable terms or at all. These factors may make the timing, amount, terms and conditions of additional financing unattractive to us. Our inability to raise capital on favorable terms, if at all, may impede our growth opportunities and may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Because a Significant Portion of Our Loan Portfolio Is Secured By Real Estate, Any Negative Conditions Affecting Real Estate May Harm Our Business Approximately 94% of our loan portfolio consists of commercial and consumer loans that are secured by various types of real estate, the value and marketability of which are sensitive to economic conditions and interest rates. In addition, these loans are subject to the risk that the local real estate markets will be overbuilt or will otherwise experience deterioration in value, driving down the value and marketability of the real estate that secures these loans. The current decline in the real estate markets may cause decrease in collateral values could increase our costs and time of collection, as well as the amount of potential losses we may incur on loans secured by real estate. Commercial real estate or “CRE” is cyclical and poses risks of possible loss due to concentration levels and similar risks of the asset. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $647.4 million in CRE loans, or approximately 79% of our loan portfolio. Our CRE loans have grown by approximately 19% since December 31, 2006. The banking regulators are giving CRE lending greater scrutiny, and may require banks with higher levels of CRE loans to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly higher levels of allowances for possible losses and capital levels as a result of CRE lending growth and exposures. We Have Large Loan Balances with a Small Number of Borrowers Who Could Be Affected by Recent Trends in the Mortgage Lending and Real Estate Markets. We have approximately $40 million in loans outstanding to two borrowers. These loans are secured by retail developments and residential real estate. If the current trends in the mortgage lending and real estate market continue, these two borrowers may be unable to perform their obligations under the loan agreements, and the collateral securing these loans may decline in value or become unmarketable. A default on either of these two loans or on any other large loans in our portfolio, or any group of loans secured by similar collateral or affected by similar market conditions, would adversely affect our net income and financial condition. We Have a Significant Amount of Construction Loans That Pose Additional Risks to Those Posed By Real Estate Loans Generally Historically, our loan portfolio has included a significant number of construction loans consisting of one-to-four family residential construction loans, commercial construction loans and land loans for residential and commercial development. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 51% of our total loan portfolio was in acquisition and development and construction loans. In addition to the risk of nonpayment by borrowers and risks associated with the fact that these loans generally bear interest at variable rates, construction lending poses additional risks that affect the ability of borrowers to repay loans and that affect the value and marketability of real estate collateral, such as: • land values may decline; • developers, builders or owners may fail to complete or develop projects; • municipalities may place moratoriums on building, utility connections or required certifications; • developers may fail to sell the improved real estate; • there may be construction delays and cost overruns; • collateral may prove insufficient; or • permanent financing may not be obtained in a timely manner. Any of these conditions could negatively affect our net income and our financial condition. We Occasionally Purchase Non-Recourse Loan Participations From Other Banks Based on Information Provided By the Selling Bank From time to time, we purchase loan participations from other banks in the ordinary course of business, usually without recourse to the selling bank. This may occur during times when we are experiencing excess liquidity in an effort to improve our profitability. When we purchase loan participations we apply the same underwriting standards as we would to loans that we directly originate and seek to purchase only loans that would satisfy these standards. We are less likely to be familiar with the borrower and the economic conditions in the borrower’s and the selling bank’s local market, and may rely to some extent on information provided to us by the selling bank and on the selling bank’s administration of the loan relationship. We therefore have less control over, and may incur greater risk and losses with respect to, loan participations that we purchase. If We Are Unable to Increase Our Share of Deposits in Our Market, We May Accept Out of Market and Brokered Deposits, the Costs of Which May Be Higher than Expected We can offer no assurance that we can maintain or increase our market share of deposits in our highly competitive primary market area. If we are unable to do so, we may be forced to accept increased amounts of out of market or brokered deposits. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $177.5 million in out of market deposits, including brokered deposits, which represented approximately 23% of our total deposits. Recently, the cost of out of market and brokered deposits has decreased to costs below the costs of deposits in our local market. However, the costs of out of market and brokered deposits can be volatile, and if we are unable to access these markets or if our costs related to out of market and brokered deposits increases, our liquidity and ability to support demand for loans could be adversely affected. We Face Strong Competition The commercial banking business is highly competitive. We compete with a variety of financial institutions, including the following: • commercial banks; • savings banks; • savings and loan associations; • credit unions; • mortgage companies; • mutual funds; • insurance companies; • brokerage and investment banking firms; • securities firms; • non-financial entities maintaining credit programs; and • government organizations and government sponsored entities. Many of these competitors have much greater resources and lending limits, more diversified markets and larger branch networks, and are able to offer similar and additional services more efficiently than we can. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. We generally have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Several of our competitors are well-established and much larger financial institutions, and we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size and lack of geographic diversification. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the extensive regulations that we are. Any future federal or state legislation could further affect this level of competition. In addition, as a result of recent developments in the credit and liquidity markets, many of our competitors in our primary market area, in order to attract deposits, have recently offered interest rates on certificates of deposit and other products that we are unable to offer. If we cannot effectively compete for deposits in our primary market area, our liquidity could come under further pressure, and we may be unable to fund our operations. We may also be forced to rely more heavily on out-of-market and brokered deposits, the cost of which could cause a decrease in our net interest margin. Our Business Is Highly Regulated Our success depends not only on competitive factors but also on state and federal regulations affecting financial services companies generally. We operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision by several governmental regulatory agencies, including the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the Georgia Department. Regulation of the financial institutions industry has undergone extensive changes in recent years and continues to change. We cannot predict the effects of these changes, and the regulations now affecting us may be modified at any time, and could adversely affect our business. In addition, any burden that may be imposed on us by federal or state regulations may create a relative competitive disadvantage to our less regulated competitors. Finally, we cannot predict the effect of any legislation which may be passed at the state or federal level in response to the recent deterioration of the subprime, mortgage, credit and liquidity markets. The Bank’s Ability to Pay Dividends Is Limited The Company’s only source of funds for the payment of principal of, and interest on, its indebtedness, as well as for the payment of dividends on our common stock, is from dividends paid by the Bank. As a result, our success and ability to pay dividends on our common stock depend upon the earnings and capital position of the Bank. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends is limited by its obligation to maintain sufficient capital and by other general restrictions on its dividends that are applicable to Georgia banks and banks that are regulated by the FDIC. Generally, a bank cannot, without prior regulatory approval, pay more dividends than its earnings for the current year or its retained earnings for the last two years. A Georgia bank may not, without prior regulatory approval, pay dividends of more than 50% of the previous year’s after-tax profits. Please see “Supervision and Regulation” for a more detailed description of these limitations. We May Face Risks With Respect to Future Acquisitions or Mergers We may engage in acquisitions or mergers in the future. We also from time to time receive inquiries and have discussions with potential acquirers. Any future acquisitions and mergers in which we might engage involve a number of risks to us, including: • the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners; • our ability to finance any acquisition that we may make; • possible dilution to our existing shareholders; • the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction, and the integration of the assets, operations of personnel of the combining businesses; • our entry into new markets, as a result of an acquisition, where we lack experience; • the acquisition of loan portfolios that may be negatively affected by current developments in the local and general economies; • the introduction of new products and services into our business; • possible adverse effects on our results of operations and capital adequacy; • the incurrence and possible write-off of goodwill and intangibles resulting from an acquisition; and • the risk of loss of key employees and customers. There can be no assurance that, following any mergers or acquisitions, whether we acquire someone or are acquired, the integration efforts will be successful. We Rely on Our Executive Officers Who Would Be Difficult to Replace Our success depends, and is expected to continue to depend, on our executive officers. In particular, we rely on J. Donald Boggus, Jr., President and Chief Executive Officer of Crescent and the Bank, Leland W. Brantley, Jr., Chief Financial Officer of Crescent and the Bank, Anthony N. Stancil, Executive Vice President and Chief of Loan Production of the Bank, A. Bradley Rutledge, Sr., Executive Vice President and Chief of Loan Administration of the Bank, and Bonnie B. Boling, Executive Vice President and Retail Administrator of the Bank. Our growth will continue to place significant demands on our management, and the loss of these executive officers’ services could harm our future operations. Our Rights to Collect Interest and Take Other Actions May Be Limited by the Servicemembers’ Civil Relief Act of 2003 The United States declared “war” on terrorism and National Guard and reserve forces either have been called up or may be called up for domestic and international service. Under the Servicemembers’ Civil Relief Act of 2003 (the “Relief Act”), which amended and expanded the Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Civil Relief Act of 1940, a borrower who enters military service is afforded various types of relief under their loans and other obligations, including a maximum annual interest rate of 6% during the period of the borrower’s active duty status. The Act further provides that any interest in excess of 6% may not become due once the servicemember leaves active duty; any accrued interest above 6% is permanently waived. The Relief Act applies to members of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, National Guard, Reserves, Coast Guard and officers of the U.S. Public Health Service assigned to active duty. Because the Relief Act applies to individuals who enter active military service after they enter into their loans, we cannot predict the effect that the Relief Act will have on our mortgage and commercial loans, if any. Under the Relief Act, we may be unable to collect the full amount of interest otherwise due on many of our loans for an indefinite period. Further, we may be unable to foreclose on these loans during, and in some cases after, the borrower’s period of active duty. We May Incur Obligations Related to Our Discontinued Wholesale Mortgage Banking Operations Prior to the sale of our wholesale residential mortgage banking business on December 31, 2003, we originated residential mortgage loans through our subsidiary, CMS. When we sold these loans, we made certain representations and warranties to the purchasers and insurers that we had properly originated and serviced the loans under state laws, investor guidelines and program eligibility standards. In some cases, we indemnified the purchasers for unpaid principal and interest on defaulted loans if we had breached the representations and warranties with respect to the loans that we sold. At December 31, 2007, we had approximately $1.7 million of mortgage loans where we had agreed to indemnify the purchaser against losses it might suffer. While we established a reserve based upon an estimated recourse liability at December 31, 2007 of approximately $2.0 million, this reserve was based upon historical information and certain assumptions by management. Because the Company’s highest levels of mortgage production in its history were in 2002 and 2003, we could experience an increase in our indemnification liability in the future. If the balance of indemnified loan increases significantly, then we could have to make additional provisions to the recourse liability reserve. In addition, if our recourse reserve is less than our actual indemnification obligations, we would be required to pay the indemnification obligations out of earnings, and our results of operations would be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 