Risk Factors Our business can be significantly affected by direct and indirect governmental regulation, which reduces our flexibility and increases the costs of doing business. Our business is affected by federal, state and foreign regulations. Noncompliance with these regulations could result in the suspension or revocation of our licenses or registrations, including broker-dealer licenses and registrations and insurance producer licenses and registrations. Regulatory authorities could also impose on us civil fines and criminal penalties for noncompliance. Some of our subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as broker-dealers. Much of the federal regulation of broker-dealers has been delegated to self-regulatory organizations, principally the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. and the national securities exchanges. Broker-dealers are subject to regulations which cover all aspects of their securities business, including, for example: • sales methods; • trading practices; • use and safekeeping of customers’ funds and securities; • capital structure; • recordkeeping; and • the conduct of directors, officers and employees. The operations of our broker-dealers and their profitability could be affected by: • federal and state legislation; • changes in rules and regulations of the SEC, banking and other regulatory agencies, and self-regulatory agencies; and • changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws, rules and regulations. Banks and other depository institutions with whom we do business are also subject to extensive regulation at the federal and state levels under laws and regulations applicable to regulated financial institutions. They are also subject to extensive examination and oversight by federal and state regulatory agencies. Changes in the laws, rules and regulations affecting our client banks and financial institutions, and the examination of their activities by applicable regulatory agencies could adversely affect our results of operations. Some of our subsidiaries, and officers and employees of these subsidiaries, are required to be licensed as insurance producers in various jurisdictions in which we conduct our insurance services business. They are subject to regulation under the insurance laws and regulations of these jurisdictions. Changes in the laws, rules and regulations affecting licensed insurance producers could adversely affect our operations. A portion of our revenues in our Insurance Services group are based on income tax-driven and estate planning-driven sales of life insurance and annuity products. Changes in laws, rules and regulations relating to income taxes and estate taxes could adversely affect this portion of our business. 9 In addition, the applicability of laws and regulations directly applicable to the businesses of the clients and companies we represent, particularly in the fields of banking, investing and insurance, will continue to affect us. The security of information about our clients’ end-users continues to be an area where a variety of laws and regulations with respect to privacy and confidentiality are enacted. As our clients implement the protections and prohibitions with respect to the transmission of end-user data, our customers will look to us to assist them in remaining in compliance with this evolving area of regulation. In particular the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act contains restrictions with respect to the use and protection of financial records for end-users whose information may pass through our systems and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) contains provisions that require the insurance companies we represent to ensure the confidentiality of their policy holders’ health care information. If we violate these privacy standards, we may be subject to fines, sanctions and penalties. Our revenues and earnings are subject to changes, which could negatively impact our financial results. A significant portion of our earnings are derived from fees based on the average market value of the assets we administer for our clients. Changes in interest rates or a substantial decline in the securities market could influence an investor’s decision whether to invest or maintain an investment in an investment vehicle administered by us. As a result, fluctuations could occur in the amount of assets which we administer. If investors were to seek alternatives to those investment vehicles, it could have a negative impact on our revenues by reducing the amount of assets we administer. Revenues in our insurance services business are derived from commissions, which are less predictable than our other revenues. In addition, the cyclical nature of life and commercial property/casualty premium rates may make the financial results in our insurance services business volatile and unpredictable. Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could adversely impact the reliability of our internal control over financial reporting. Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2005, and this assessment identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of June 30, 2005. For a discussion of these material weaknesses and our responsive measures, please see “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures” of this report. Material weaknesses and other control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures have led to restatements of our consolidated financial statements. Since the identification of the material weaknesses, we have implemented and are continuing to implement various initiatives intended to improve our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures to address these material weaknesses. No assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully implement remediated controls and procedures or that our remediated controls and procedures will be effective in remedying all identified deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. There also can be no assurances that these material weaknesses will be rectified or that additional material weaknesses in our internal controls will not be identified. The existence of one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting impacts the reliability of our internal control over financial reporting. We are currently a defendant in securities litigation and may be the target of further actions, which may be costly and time-consuming to defend. We are currently subject to legal proceedings and claims, including securities class action lawsuits and a shareholder derivative lawsuit. In the future, more lawsuits may be filed against us. See Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot 10 presently be determined and may require significant commitment of our financial and management resources and time, which may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurances that any of the claims can be resolved without costly and protracted litigation, and the outcome may have a material adverse impact upon our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Defending against existing and potential litigation relating to the restatement of our consolidated financial statements, or responding to other regulatory inquiries or investigations, will likely require significant time, attention and resources of management, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to an SEC investigation relating to the restatement of our financial statements. We notified the SEC in May 2004 that we would restate certain prior period financial statements, and subsequently, the SEC advised the Company that it was conducting an investigation into the facts and circumstances related to this restatement. On May 17, 2004, we announced that we would restate our financial results for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2003, 2002, and 2001 and for the quarters ended December 31 and September 30, 2003 (the “2004 restatement”) in order to record adjustments for correction of errors resulting from various accounting matters in the Life Insurance Services division. An amended Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003 was filed with the SEC on August 10, 2004 along with amended Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended December 31 and September 30, 2003 to reflect the restated financial results. In July 2005, the Company determined that an additional restatement of previously issued financial statements was necessary and the SEC’s investigation has been expanded to include the 2005 restatement. The investigation is ongoing. We have cooperated and intend to continue to cooperate with the SEC’s investigation, which has resulted and will likely continue to result in significant expenses. We cannot predict when the SEC will conclude its investigation or the outcome or impact thereof. We are subject to an SEC investigation related to marketing and distribution arrangements in our mutual funds business. We also are responding to an SEC investigation and requests for information related to marketing and distribution arrangements in the fund services business. We have cooperated and intend to continue to cooperate with the SEC’s investigation. While we have submitted an offer of settlement, which has the support of the SEC Staff, the Staff has not yet presented the offer of settlement to the Commission for approval and no assurance can be give that such approval will be granted. We have established an estimated liability of $20.9 million at June 30, 2005, representing expected amounts to be paid as part of the settlement. The SEC investigations may negatively impact the Company. Our senior management and Board of Directors have been required to devote significant time to the SEC investigations and related matters and may in the future be required to continue to do so. Expenses incurred in connection with these investigations (which include substantial fees of lawyers and other professional advisors and potential obligations to indemnify officers and directors who may be parties to such actions) could adversely affect our cash position. As a result of the investigations beyond what has been described above in connection with the marketing and distribution arrangements, we may be required to pay material fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct or suffer other penalties, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Moreover, any further action by the SEC against us, and potentially members of our management, may cause the company to be subject to injunctions, fines and other penalties or sanctions or result in private civil actions, loss of key personnel or other adverse consequences and may require us to devote additional time and resources to these matters. The investigation may adversely affect our ability to obtain, and/or increase the cost of obtaining, directors’ and officers’ liability insurance and/or 11 other types of insurance, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the SEC investigations and the remedies applied may affect certain of our business relationships and consequently may have an adverse effect on our business in the future. Our acquisition strategy subjects us to risks, including increased debt, assumption of unforeseen liabilities and difficulties in integrating operations. Since our founding, we have acquired a number of other companies. We may make additional acquisitions. We cannot predict if or when any additional acquisitions will occur or whether they will be successful. Acquiring a business involves many risks, including: • incurrence of unforeseen obligations or liabilities; • difficulty in integrating the acquired operations and personnel; • difficulty in maintaining uniform controls, procedures and policies; • possible impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of the integration of new personnel; • risk of entering markets in which we have minimal prior experience; • decrease in earnings as a result of non-cash charges; • dilution to existing stockholders from the issuance of our common stock to make or finance acquisitions; and • incurrence of debt. Our systems may be subject to infiltration by unauthorized persons. We maintain and process data on behalf of our clients, some of which is critical to the business operations of our clients. For example, our Investment Services group maintains transfer agency records and processes trades for our mutual fund clients. If our systems or facilities were infiltrated and damaged by unauthorized persons, our clients could experience data loss, financial loss and significant business interruption. If that were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because of the confidential nature of health information related to insurance policy requests that we store and transmit, security breaches could also expose us to a risk of regulatory action, litigation, possible liability and loss. Disruption of our disaster recovery plans and procedures in the event of a catastrophe could adversely affect our operations. We have made a significant investment in our infrastructure, and our operations are dependent on our ability to protect the continuity of our infrastructure against damage from catastrophe or natural disaster, breach of security, loss of power, telecommunications failure or other natural or man-made events. A catastrophic event could have a direct negative impact on us or an indirect impact on us by adversely affecting our customers, the financial markets or the overall economy. While we have implemented business continuity and disaster recovery plans, it is impossible to fully anticipate and protect against all potential catastrophes. If our business continuity and disaster recovery plans and procedures were disrupted or unsuccessful in the event of a catastrophe, we could experience a material adverse interruption of our operations. 12 We face significant competition from other companies. Many of our competitors are well-established companies, and some of them have greater financial, technical and operating resources than we do. Competition in our business is based primarily upon: • pricing; • quality of products and services; • breadth of products and services; • new product development; and • the ability to provide technological solutions. We depend on key management personnel, most of whom do not have long-term employment agreements. Our success depends upon the continued services of our key senior management personnel, including our executive officers and the senior managers of our businesses. None of our executive officers have employment agreements with us and substantially all of our other senior management personnel do not have employment agreements with us. The loss of any key executive officers or senior managers could potentially impede our ability to execute effectively on our business strategy and could also potentially harm our operating results or business prospects. We depend on our ability to attract and retain skilled personnel. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel in all areas of our business. We cannot assure that we will be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms in the future. Our inability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel could have an adverse effect on our business prospects. We do not intend to pay dividends. We have never paid cash dividends to stockholders and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, our existing credit facility limits our ability to pay cash dividends. Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock is subject to volatility. From July 1, 2004 to March 31, 2006, the last sale price of our common stock ranged from a low of $12.45 per share to a high of $16.63 per share. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the appearance that such shares are available for sale, could adversely affect the market price for our common stock. As of March 31, 2006, we had 120,460,848 shares of common stock outstanding. As of March 31, 2006, we also had options to purchase 11,028,639 shares of our common stock outstanding and 11,246,431 shares of our common stock reserved for issuance pursuant to options available for issuance under our stock option plans and employee stock purchase plan. Anti-takeover effects of certain by-law provisions, Delaware law, and our shareholder rights plan could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control. We have a shareholder rights plan. Under the plan, if a person or group were to acquire or announce the intention to acquire 15% or more of our outstanding shares of common stock, and in some cases 10%, each right would entitle the holder, other than the acquiring person or group, 13 to purchase shares of our common stock at $175, the exercise price of the right, with a value of twice the exercise price. This plan could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing persons from attempting to acquire us. In addition, the Delaware General Corporation Law, to which we are subject, prohibits, except under circumstances specified in the statute, a corporation from engaging in any mergers, significant sales of stock or assets or business combinations with any stockholder or group of stockholders who own at least 15% of our common stock. ITEM 