ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Our evaluation of strategic alternatives may negatively impact business operations and our assets. On August 10, 2006, we announced that we engaged an investment banker to assist us in a review of our strategic alternatives including a sale of the company. As this review is ongoing, we are uncertain as to what strategic alternatives may be available to us, whether we will elect to pursue any such strategic alternatives, or what impact any particular strategic alternative will have on our stock price if pursued. There are various uncertainties and risks relating to our exploration of strategic alternatives, including: exploration of strategic alternatives may distract management and disrupt operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results; the process of exploring strategic alternatives may be time consuming and expensive and may adversely affect our ability to sign new business; we may not be able to successfully achieve the benefits of any strategic alternative undertaken by us; and perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in the loss of employees, clients or business partners. If the exploration of strategic alternatives does result in a transaction, we are unable to predict what the market prices of our common stock would be after the announcement of such a transaction. In addition, the market price of our stock could be highly volatile for several months as we explore strategic alternatives and may continue to be more volatile if and when a transaction is announced or we announce that we are no longer exploring strategic alternatives. 7 We have an interim Chief Executive Officer and depend on key management personnel, most of whom do not have long-term employment agreements. We currently do not have a permanent Chief Executive Officer, which creates uncertainty and could adversely affect our relationships with our customers and employees and also our reputation in the marketplace. We believe that it will be difficult to recruit and retain a permanent Chief Executive Officer given our announcement concerning exploration of strategic alternatives, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends upon the continued services of our key senior management personnel, including our executive officers and the senior managers of our businesses. Our interim Chief Executive Officer and other executive officers do not have employment agreements with us and substantially all of our other senior management personnel do not have employment agreements with us. The loss of any key executive officers or senior managers could potentially impede our ability to execute effectively on our business strategy and could also potentially harm our operating results or business prospects. Although we have taken steps to address these risks while we are exploring strategic alternatives, including providing retention bonus awards to key employees and separation agreements to executive officers, there can be no assurance that any such losses or distractions will not adversely affect the operations or financial results of the Company. Our business can be significantly affected by direct and indirect governmental regulation, which reduces our flexibility and increases the costs of doing business. Our business is affected by federal, state and foreign regulations. Noncompliance with these regulations could result in the suspension or revocation of our licenses or registrations, including broker-dealer licenses and registrations and insurance producer licenses and registrations. Regulatory authorities could also impose on us civil fines and criminal penalties for noncompliance. Some of our subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as broker-dealers. Much of the federal regulation of broker-dealers has been delegated to self-regulatory organizations, principally the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. and the national securities exchanges. Broker-dealers are subject to regulations which cover all aspects of their securities business, including, for example: sales methods; trading practices; use and safekeeping of customers’ funds and securities; capital structure; recordkeeping; and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. The operations of our broker-dealers and their profitability could be affected by: federal and state legislation; changes in rules and regulations of the SEC, banking and other regulatory agencies, and self- regulatory agencies; and changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws, rules and regulations. Some of our subsidiaries, and officers and employees of these subsidiaries, are required to be licensed as insurance producers in various jurisdictions in which we conduct our insurance services businesses. They are subject to regulation under the insurance laws and regulations of these jurisdictions. Changes in the laws, rules and regulations affecting licensed insurance producers could adversely affect our operations. A portion of our revenues in our Insurance Services group are based on income tax-driven and estate planning-driven sales of life insurance and annuity products. Changes in laws, rules and regulations relating to income taxes and estate taxes could adversely affect this portion of our business. 8 In addition, the applicability of laws and regulations directly applicable to the businesses of the clients and companies we represent, particularly in the fields of investing and insurance, will continue to affect us. The security of information about our clients’ end-users continues to be an area where a variety of laws and regulations with respect to privacy and confidentiality are enacted. As our clients implement the protections and prohibitions with respect to the transmission of end-user data, our customers will look to us to assist them in remaining in compliance with this evolving area of regulation. In particular the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act contains restrictions with respect to the use and protection of financial records for end-users whose information may pass through our systems and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) contains provisions that require the insurance companies we represent to ensure the confidentiality of their policy holders’ health care information. If we violate these privacy standards, we may be subject to fines, sanctions and penalties. Our revenues and earnings are subject to changes, which could negatively impact our financial results. A significant portion of our earnings are derived from fees based on the average market value of the assets we administer for our clients. Changes in interest rates or a substantial decline in the securities market could influence an investor’s decision whether to invest or maintain an investment in an investment vehicle administered by us. As a result, fluctuations could occur in the amount of assets which we administer. If investors were to seek alternatives to those investment vehicles, it could have a negative impact on our revenues by reducing the amount of assets we administer. Revenues in our insurance services business are derived from commissions, which are less predictable than our other revenues. In addition, the cyclical nature of life and commercial property/casualty premium rates may make the financial results in our insurance services business volatile and unpredictable. Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could adversely impact the reliability of our internal control over financial reporting. Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2006, and this assessment identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of June 30, 2006. For a discussion of these material weaknesses and our responsive measures, please see Part II, Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures” of this report. Material weaknesses and other control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures have led to restatements of our consolidated financial statements. Since the identification of the material weaknesses, we have implemented and are continuing to implement various initiatives intended to improve our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures to address these material weaknesses. No assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully implement remediated controls and procedures or that our remediated controls and procedures will be effective in remedying all identified deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. There also can be no assurances that these material weaknesses will be rectified or that additional material weaknesses in our internal controls will not be identified. The existence of one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting impacts the reliability of our internal control over financial reporting. We are currently a defendant in securities litigation and may be the target of further actions, which may be costly and time-consuming to defend. We are currently subject to legal proceedings and claims, including securities and shareholder derivative lawsuits. Although we have reached an agreement to settle the consolidated securities class action lawsuit, the settlement is subject to necessary court approvals, and members of the class may elect to “opt out” of the settlement to pursue their claims separately. Although we have also reached an agreement to settle a related lawsuit putatively brought on behalf of a class of holders of non-publicly-traded Company securities, the settlement is on an individual basis and is contingent on the settlement of the consolidated securities class action lawsuit. In addition, shareholder derivative actions remain 9 pending, and we are unable to predict the outcome of the derivative actions or potential future litigation relating to the restatements of our consolidated financial statements. Costs associated with the proposed settlements and additional judgments in or settlements of related matters could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. See Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” We are subject to an SEC investigation relating to the restatement of our financial statements. We notified the SEC in May 2004 that we would restate certain prior period financial statements, and subsequently, the SEC advised the Company that it was conducting an investigation into the facts and circumstances related to this restatement. On May 17, 2004, we announced that we would restate our financial results for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2003, 2002, and 2001 and for the quarters ended December 31 and September 30, 2003 (the “2004 restatement”) in order to record adjustments for correction of errors resulting from various accounting matters in the Life Insurance Services division. An amended Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003 was filed with the SEC on August 10, 2004 along with amended Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended December 31 and September 30, 2003 to reflect the restated financial results. In July 2005, the Company determined that an additional restatement of previously issued financial statements was necessary, and the SEC’s investigation had been expanded to include the additional restatement filed in April 2006. We have cooperated and intend to continue to cooperate with the SEC’s investigation, which has resulted in significant expenses. While we have submitted an offer of settlement, which has the support of the SEC Staff, the Staff has not yet presented the offer of settlement to the Commission for approval and no assurance can be given that such approval will be granted. See Part I, Item 3, “Regulatory Investigations.” Under the proposed settlement, which remains subject to final approval by the SEC, BISYS will consent to refrain from future violations of the reporting, books and records and internal controls provisions of the federal securities laws and related SEC rules. BISYS has agreed to pay $25.1 million in disgorgement and prejudgment interest. The proposed settlement and additional expenses incurred in connection with this investigation (which include substantial fees of lawyers and other professional advisors and potential obligations to indemnify officers and directors who may be parties to such actions) could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Moreover, any further action by the SEC against us, and potentially members of our management, may cause the company to be subject to injunctions, fines and other penalties or sanctions or result in private civil actions, loss of key personnel or other adverse consequences and may require us to devote additional time and resources to these matters. The investigation may adversely affect our ability to obtain, and/or increase the cost of obtaining, directors’ and officers’ liability insurance and/or other types of insurance, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The SEC investigation and settlement related to marketing and distribution arrangements in our mutual funds business could adversely affect our business. On September 26, 2006, the SEC approved our settlement offer with respect to the SEC’s investigation of certain past marketing and distribution arrangements in our mutual funds services business. See Part I, Item 3, “Regulatory Investigations.” In connection with the settlement with the SEC, we consented to cease and desist from aiding and abetting or causing any violations of the referenced provisions of the federal securities laws and related SEC rules. If we are found to be in violation of the consent order, we may be subject to increased penalties and consequences as a result of the prior actions. As part of the settlement, for a period of up to 18 months following the order of settlement, we are required to retain an independent consultant to review our fund services policies and procedures governing (i) the receipt of revenues and payment of expenses associated with its administrative, fund accounting and distribution services, and (ii) the accuracy of disclosures to fund boards of directors concerning agreements between the Company, the funds, advisors, banks and related entities with respect to those services. We are also required to retain an independent distribution consultant to review and administer the plan of distribution of the funds paid by BFS as part of the settlement. Our senior management and Board of Directors have been required to devote significant time to the SEC settlement and related matters and may in the future be required to continue to do so. Expenses required to implement the settlement (which include 10 substantial fees of lawyers and other professional advisors, including the independent consultants) could adversely affect our cash position. In addition, the investigation and settlement of this matter has resulted in negative publicity concerning the Company’s past involvement in these marketing and distribution arrangements and related industry practices. Heightened scrutiny on our fund services policies and procedures has resulted in, and could continue to result in, a loss of client confidence, harm to our reputation, exposure to further disciplinary action and potential liability to certain mutual fund clients. Our acquisition strategy subjects us to risks, including increased debt, assumption of unforeseen liabilities and difficulties in integrating operations. Since our founding, we have acquired a number of other companies. We may make additional acquisitions. We cannot predict if or when any additional acquisitions will occur or whether they will be successful. Acquiring a business involves many risks, including: incurrence of unforeseen obligations or liabilities; difficulty in integrating the acquired operations and personnel; difficulty in maintaining uniform controls, procedures and policies; possible impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of the integration of new personnel; risk of entering markets in which we have minimal prior experience; decrease in earnings as a result of non-cash charges; dilution to existing stockholders from the issuance of our common stock to make or finance acquisitions; and incurrence of debt. Our systems may be subject to access by unauthorized persons. We maintain and process data on behalf of our clients, some of which is critical to the business operations of our clients. For example, our Investment Services group maintains transfer agency records and processes trades for our mutual fund clients. If our systems or facilities were accessed and damaged by unauthorized persons, our clients could experience data loss, financial loss and significant business interruption. If that were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because of the confidential nature of health information related to insurance policy requests that we store and transmit, security breaches could also expose us to a risk of regulatory action, litigation, possible liability and loss. Disruption of our disaster recovery plans and procedures in the event of a catastrophe could adversely affect our operations. We have made a significant investment in our infrastructure, and our operations are dependent on our ability to protect the continuity of our infrastructure against damage from catastrophe or natural disaster, breach of security, loss of power, telecommunications failure or other natural or man-made events. A catastrophic event could have a direct negative impact on us or an indirect impact on us by adversely affecting our customers, the financial markets or the overall economy. While we have implemented business continuity and disaster recovery plans, it is impossible to fully anticipate and protect against all potential catastrophes. If our business continuity and disaster recovery plans and procedures were disrupted or unsuccessful in the event of a catastrophe, we could experience a material adverse interruption of our operations. 11 We face significant competition from other companies. Many of our competitors are well-established companies, and some of them have greater financial, technical and operating resources than we do. Competition in our business is based primarily upon: pricing; quality of products and services; breadth of products and services; new product development; and the ability to provide technological solutions. We depend on our ability to attract and retain skilled personnel. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel in all areas of our business. Perceived uncertainties as to our future direction arising from our announcement concerning exploration of strategic alternatives may make it more difficult to attract and retain such personnel. We cannot assure that we will be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms in the future. Our inability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel could have an adverse effect on our business prospects. We do not intend to pay dividends. We have never paid cash dividends to stockholders and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, our existing credit facility limits our ability to pay cash dividends. Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock is subject to volatility. From July 1, 2005 to June 30, 2006, the last sale price of our common stock ranged from a low of $12.49 per share to a high of $15.95 per share. In addition, the market price of our stock could be highly volatile for several months as we explore strategic alternatives and may continue to be more volatile if and when a transaction is announced or we announce that we are no longer exploring strategic alternatives. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the appearance that such shares are available for sale, could adversely affect the market price for our common stock. As of November 30, 2006, we had 121,013,040 shares of common stock outstanding. As of November 30, 2006, we also had options to purchase 8,385,686 shares of our common stock outstanding and 10,025,477 shares of our common stock reserved for issuance pursuant to options available for issuance under our stock option plans and employee stock purchase plan. Anti-takeover effects of certain by-law provisions, Delaware law, and our shareholder rights plan could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control. We have a shareholder rights plan. Under the plan, if a person or group were to acquire or announce the intention to acquire 15% or more of our outstanding shares of common stock, and in some cases 10%, each right would entitle the holder, other than the acquiring person or group, to purchase shares of our common stock at $175, the exercise price of the right, with a value of twice the exercise price. This plan could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing persons from attempting to acquire us. In addition, the Delaware General Corporation Law, to which we are subject, prohibits, except under circumstances specified in the statute, a corporation from engaging in any mergers, significant sales of stock or assets or business combinations with any stockholder or group of stockholders who own at least 15% of our common stock. 12 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 