Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks. We may face risks in addition to the risks and uncertainties described below. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Any of the risks described below could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. You should carefully consider and evaluate the risks and uncertainties listed below, as well as the other information set forth in this Form 10-K. We have a history of losses, and we expect to continue to incur losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability. If we continue to incur losses and are unable to access sufficient working capital from our operations or through external financings, we will be unable to fund future operations and operate as a going concern. The extent of our future losses and the timing of profitability are highly uncertain, and we may never achieve profitable operations. As of December 31 2005, we had an inception to date net loss of approximately $65.7 million, and total stockholders’ deficit of approximately $5.9 million. Historically, our net sales have varied significantly. We may need to generate additional revenue to achieve profitability in the future. The Company likely will not achieve profitability, if at all, unless we receive clearance from the FDA of our 510(k) application relating to the collagen scaffold or the CMI is approved by the FDA and becomes commercially available in the U.S. We submitted the 510(k) application to the FDA on December 28, 2005. The 510(k) clearance process usually takes from three to nine months, but could last longer. We will likely not pursue completion of the PMA for the CMI unless the regulatory efforts with respect to the collagen scaffold are unsuccessful. Should the FDA provide clearance for our 510(k) application relating to the collagen scaffold or approve the CMI for sale in the U.S., sales of the collagen scaffold or the CMI in the U.S. are not expected to occur until, at the earliest, the first quarter of 2007. If we are unable to achieve profitability, or to maintain profitability if achieved, it may have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price and we may be unable to continue to operate as a going concern, if at all. The Company cannot assure that it will generate additional revenues or achieve profitability. 22 Table of Contents Based upon current cash reserves, including the net proceeds of the July 2005 Financing described under Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below; planned spending rates for 2006; and estimated spending beyond 2006, management estimates that the Company has adequate cash on hand to support ongoing operations, including continuation of our marketing and distribution activities in Europe, through at least January 1, 2007. Our estimate may change, however, if actual results differ significantly from our expectations. Key assumptions that may affect our estimate include (i) actual sales that may vary significantly from our expectations; (ii) the actual timeline of events with respect to the CMI MCT and our 510(k) and PMA submissions to the FDA; (iii) decisions we make regarding our business objectives; and (iv) other developments in our business. If necessary, we have the intent and ability to reduce planned spending during 2006 by controlling costs that are within management’s discretion. Such costs include (but are not limited to) consulting, advertising and promotion, personnel, other administrative costs and/or capital expenditures. However, if unforeseen events occur, it is possible that additional cash may be needed in 2006. If we are unable to access sufficient working capital from our operations or through external financings, we will be unable to fund future operations and operate as a going concern. We are a development stage company and have no significant operating history with which investors can evaluate our business and prospects. We are a development stage company and have no significant operating history and are operating in a new, specialized and highly competitive field. Our ability to successfully provide the guidance and management needed to continue and grow the business on an ongoing basis has not yet been established and cannot be assured. Our business is subject to all of the risks inherent in our type of business, including, but not limited to, potential delays in the development of products, the need for FDA or other regulatory approvals of certain of our products and devices, including the collagen scaffold and the CMI, uncertainties of the healthcare marketplace and reimbursement levels of insurers and similar governmental programs, unanticipated costs and other uncertain market conditions. Our debt level could adversely affect our financial health and affect our ability to run our business. As of December 31 2005, our debt was approximately $7.4 million, of which $14,000 was the current portion of capital lease obligations. This level of debt could have important consequences to you as a holder of shares. Below are some of the material potential consequences resulting from this significant amount of debt: • We may be unable to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes. • Our ability to adapt to changing market conditions may be hampered. We may be more vulnerable in a volatile market and at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt. • Our operating flexibility is more limited due to financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on incurring additional debt, creating liens on our properties, making acquisitions and paying dividends. • We are subject to the risks that interest rates and our interest expense will increase. • Our ability to plan for, or react to, changes in our business is more limited. Under certain circumstances, we may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future. If we add new debt, the related risks that we now face could intensify. Product introductions or modifications may be delayed or canceled if we are unable to obtain FDA clearance or approval and we are unable to sell the collagen scaffold or CMI in the U.S. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities rigorously regulate the medical devices we manufacture and market. Our failure to comply with such regulations could lead to the imposition of injunctions, suspensions or loss of regulatory 23 Table of Contents approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution, or product seizures. In the most egregious cases, we could face criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facility. The process of obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the FDA, can be costly and time-consuming. There can be no assurance that such clearances or approvals will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. In particular, the FDA permits commercial distribution of a new medical device only after the device has received clearance under Section 510(k) of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, de novo (risk-based) classification into class I or II under Section 513(a)(1) of the Act, or premarket approval under Section 515 of the Act, unless an exemption applies. The FDA will clear marketing of a medical device through the 510(k) process if it is demonstrated that the new product is substantially equivalent to other 510(k)-cleared products. Our ability to gain clearance of the collagen scaffold under 510(k) is dependent upon the FDA concluding that the collagen scaffold is a class II medical device and is substantially equivalent to previously cleared devices. Moreover, the FDA may require submission of clinical data to support the 510(k) application. If the 510(k) process takes longer than expected or the collagen scaffold device is not cleared, it might substantially delay our ability to commercialize the collagen scaffold and negatively impact our business. If the collagen scaffold device is not cleared through the 510(k), we may proceed with our submission of the PMA for the CMI to the FDA. The PMA process is typically more costly, lengthy and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process. A PMA application must be supported by extensive data, including, but not limited to, technical, preclinical, clinical trial, manufacturing and labeling data, to demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction the safety and efficacy of the device for its intended use. Commercialization of any products we develop that require regulatory clearance or approval may be delayed. There is no assurance that the FDA will not require that a certain new product or product enhancement go through the lengthy and expensive PMA process. We have limited experience in obtaining clearance of a 510(k) submission or premarket approval. An ongoing risk exists that the FDA’s policies, both formal and informal, may change, or be applied in new ways, or that additional government regulations may be enacted which could prevent or delay regulatory clearance or approval of potential products. In addition, recent safety issues related to certain FDA cleared or approved products already on the market may have increased the FDA’s scrutiny of safety concerns and has caused the FDA to heighten its scrutiny of clinical trial data submitted in support of marketing applications. As a result the Company’s ongoing and future clinical studies may receive increased scrutiny which could adversely affect our ability to obtain approval of the collagen scaffold or the CMI. In particular, the FDA has not yet approved the collagen scaffold or the CMI and there is no guarantee that we will obtain such approval. There is no assurance that our management and administration of the clinical trials, the strength of the clinical outcomes, patient compliance and surgeon documentation will be sufficient to meet the stringent demands necessary for FDA approval. Sales of the collagen scaffold or the CMI in the U.S. will not occur until it has been cleared or approved for sale in the U.S. by the FDA. Foreign governmental authorities have become increasingly strict and we may be subject to more rigorous regulation by such authorities in the future. Any inability or failure of our foreign independent distributors to comply with the varying regulations or new regulations could restrict such distributors’ ability to sell our products internationally and this could adversely affect our business. All products and manufacturing facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspection by regulatory agencies. Following these periodic inspections, or audits, the FDA may issue a Form 483 notice of inspection observations or, in some cases, a more formal “warning letter” that could cause us to modify certain activities identified during the inspection. A Form 483 notice is generally issued at the conclusion of an FDA inspection and lists conditions the FDA investigators believe may violate good manufacturing practices or other FDA regulations. In April 2005, one of the clinical trial sites in the MCT was audited. As a result of that audit, the site received a Form 483 notice. The site has prepared and submitted a response to the FDA’s notice. In the second quarter of 2005, the FDA initiated an audit of the Company’s records relating to the MCT. As a result of this audit, in May of 2005 the FDA issued a Form 483 notice. The Company responded to the FDA’s audit notice and, where deemed necessary by management, took corrective action to address the investigators’ observations. 24 Table of Contents In the third quarter of 2005, the Company received a warning letter from the FDA dated September 16, 2005 (the “Warning Letter”). The Warning Letter was a follow-up to the Form 483 notice. The observations related primarily to the Company’s monitoring and retention of records in the conduct of the MCT for the CMI. The Company was aware of the issues that led to the observations prior to the time of the FDA inspection. In fact, the Company had earlier notified the FDA of such issues and had commenced corrective action. The Company submitted its response to the Form 483 via letter dated June 7, 2005. The Company also submitted to the FDA a revised set of training and other procedures on August 16, 2005 (the “Updated Procedures”). The Updated Procedures specifically address training of the new corrective procedures, as well as follow-up and monitoring to ensure the effective implementation of the corrective actions called for by the Form 483 observations. The Warning Letter indicated that at that time the FDA believed the Company had not adequately addressed in its June 7, 2005 written response the specific observations and issues identified in the Form 483. The Company believes that it responded to the issues raised in the Form 483 through the response to the Form 483 and the Updated Procedures previously provided to the FDA. Management believes that the Warning Letter may not have taken into account the Company’s adoption and implementation of the Updated Procedures. In October 2005, the Company submitted its written response to the Warning Letter, which referenced the Company’s response to the Form 483, submitted on June 7, 2005 and included the Updated Procedures. Responding to FDA inquiries and audits and providing the FDA with information is time consuming for management and may result in the delay of product clearance or approvals and access to U.S. markets. Failure to comply with FDA or other governmental regulations can result in fines, unanticipated compliance expenditures, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, suspension of the FDA’s review of Company submissions, enforcement actions, injunctions and criminal prosecution. Off-label promotion of our products could result in substantial penalties. We are only permitted to promote our products for the uses indicated on the respective label as cleared by the FDA. The U.S. Attorneys’ offices and other regulators, in addition to the FDA, have recently focused substantial attention on off-label promotional activities and have initiated civil and criminal investigations related to such practices. If it is determined by these or other regulators that we have promoted our products for off-label use, we could be subject to fines, legal proceedings, injunctions or other penalties. The collagen scaffold and CMI are novel products and they contain biologic materials and so may face additional obstacles to FDA clearance or approval. To complete successful clinical trials, a product must meet the criteria for clinical approval, or endpoints, established in the clinical study. These endpoints are established in consultation with the FDA, following its clinical trial design guidelines to establish the safety and effectiveness for approval of Class III medical devices. However, in the case of products which are novel or which target parts of the human body for which there are no FDA approved products, the scientific literature may not be as complete and there may not be established guidelines for the design of studies to demonstrate the effectiveness of such products. As a result, clinical trials considering such products may take longer than average and obtaining approval may be more difficult. Additionally, the endpoints established for such a clinical trial might be inadequate to demonstrate the safety and efficacy levels required for regulatory approval because they do not measure the clinical benefit of the product being tested. In certain cases additional data collected in the clinical trial or further clinical trials may be required by the FDA. To our knowledge, the FDA has not to date approved or established endpoints for any other product with the potential to facilitate the growth of new tissue in the space created when meniscus tissue is removed through a partial meniscectomy procedure. It is possible that the FDA or the Company could determine that 25 Table of Contents the endpoints established for the CMI clinical trial should be modified because they are inadequate to demonstrate the safety and efficacy levels required for regulatory approval of the CMI or that such endpoints fail to measure the benefit of the CMI. If this were to occur, we may be required to collect additional patient data or to re-design our clinical trial using different measures. If we are required to identify new measures to test our endpoints, we will face substantial delays in our current timeline to commercialize and launch the CMI in the U.S. and will incur additional costs associated with these activities. Any delays in regulatory approval will delay commercialization of the CMI in the U.S., which would harm our business prospects. The FDA regulates human therapeutic products in one of three broad categories: drugs, biologics or medical devices. The FDA’s scrutiny of products containing biologic materials may be heightened. We use a biologic material, bovine tendon, in the production of the collagen scaffold and the CMI. Use of this biological material in the collagen scaffold and the CMI may result in heightened scrutiny of our product which may result in further delays in, or obstacles to, obtaining FDA approval. Sales of our products are largely dependent upon third party reimbursement and our performance may be harmed by health care cost containment and coverage initiatives. In the U.S. and other markets, health care providers, such as hospitals and physicians, that purchase health care products, such as our products, generally rely on third party payers to reimburse all or part of the cost of the health care product. Such third party payers include Medicare, Medicaid and other health insurance and managed care plans. Reimbursement by third party payers may depend on a number of factors, including the payer’s determination that the use of our products is clinically useful and cost-effective, medically necessary, and not experimental or investigational. Also, third party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Since reimbursement approval is required from each payer individually, seeking such approvals can be a time consuming and costly process. In the future, this could require us or our marketing partners to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of our products to each payer separately. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. Third party payers are increasingly attempting to contain the costs of health care products and services by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new therapeutic products and by refusing, in some cases, to provide coverage for uses of approved products for disease indications for which the FDA has not granted marketing approval. There can be no assurance that third party reimbursement coverage will be available or adequate for any products or services that we develop. We may be subject to product liability claims and our limited product liability insurance may not be sufficient to cover the claims, or we may be required to recall our products. We manufacture medical devices that are used on patients in surgical procedures and we may be subject to product liability claims. During 2001 and 2002, the Company shipped certain components of the SharpShooter that were later identified to have the potential to become non-sterile. After becoming aware of this potential in 2002, the Company voluntarily instituted a recall of such product components. The Company reworked the packaging design to correct the issue that led to the recall. This reworked packaging required FDA approval before the reworked products could be returned to the customer. The Company received a termination letter from the FDA closing the recall on July 3, 2003. We may be subject to other product recalls in the future. The medical device industry has been historically litigious and we face an inherent business risk of financial exposure to product liability claims. Since our products are often implanted in the human body, manufacturing errors, design defects or packaging defects could result in injury or death to the patient. This could result in a recall of our products and substantial monetary damages. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in a diversion of our resources, an increase in our product liability insurance premiums and/or an inability to secure coverage in the future. We would also have to pay any amount awarded by a court in excess of our policy limits. In addition, any recall of our products, whether initiated by us or by a regulatory agency, may result in adverse publicity for us that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our product liability insurance policies have various exclusions; therefore, we may be subject to a product liability claim or recall for which we have no insurance coverage. In such a case, we may have to pay the entire amount of the award or costs of 26 Table of Contents the recall. Finally, product liability insurance is expensive and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. Negative publicity or medical research regarding the health effects of the types of products used in the collagen scaffold and the CMI could affect us. Since December 2003, the U.S. Department of Agriculture has announced diagnoses of bovine spongiform encephalopathy, also known as mad cow disease, in adult cows in three isolated instances. This could raise public concern about the safety of using certain other animal-derived products, including the bovine tendon based material used in the collagen scaffold and the CMI. The U.S. Department of Agriculture has indicated that human transmission of mad cow disease is limited to nervous system tissue such as the brain, spinal cord, retina, dorsal root ganglia (nervous tissue located near the backbone), distal ileum and the bone marrow. Additionally, the literature indicates that certain steps used in the manufacture of the collagen scaffold or the CMI have a high probability of destroying any of the prions, or protein particles, believed to be responsible for mad cow disease, even if they were present in the tendon tissue. Currently, we obtain our supply of bovine tissue from the Achilles tendon of U.S. cows that are 24 months or younger in age and source the tendon material from a third-party supplier. However, we are still subject to risks resulting from public perception that the bovine collagen may be affected by mad cow disease. To date, we have not, as a result of concerns about mad cow disease, suffered any negative financial results or received any indication that such concerns could delay or prevent clearance by the FDA of our 510(k) application relating to the collagen scaffold or the approval of the CMI by the FDA. However, should public concerns about the safety of bovine collagen or other cow-derived substances increase, as a result of further occurrences of mad cow disease or for any other reason, we could suffer a loss of sales or face increased risks to obtaining FDA clearance or approval. This could have a material and adverse affect on our financial results. To be commercially successful, we will have to convince physicians that using our products to repair damaged menisci is an effective alternative to existing therapies and treatments. We believe that physicians will not widely adopt our products unless they determine based on experience, clinical data and published peer reviewed journal articles, that the use of the collagen scaffold, CMI, the SharpShooter or any future products we develop provides an effective alternative to conventional means of treating a damaged meniscus or other injury. To date, we have completed only limited clinical studies of the CMI and the SharpShooter. Clinical experience may not indicate that treatment with our products provides patients with sustained benefits. In addition, we believe that continued recommendations and support for the use of the collagen scaffold, CMI and the SharpShooter by influential physicians are essential for widespread market acceptance of these products. If our products do not continue to receive support from these physicians or from long-term data, surgeons may not use, and the facilities may not purchase, our products. Moreover, our competitors may develop and successfully commercialize medical devices that directly or indirectly accomplish in a superior and less expensive manner what our products are designed to accomplish. If our competitors’ products prove to be more successful than ours, our products could be rendered obsolete. As a result, we may not be able to produce sufficient sales to obtain or maintain profitability. We are dependent on a few products. We anticipate that most of our revenue growth in the future, if any, will come from our tissue growth and repair technology products including the collagen scaffold, CMI and other supporting products, including the SharpShooter. We may not be able to successfully increase sales of our current product offering. Additionally, our efforts to develop new products, including enhancements to our existing products may not be successful. If our development efforts are successful, we may not be successful in marketing and selling our new products. 27 Table of Contents We will need to obtain financing in the future which may be difficult and may result in dilution to our stockholders. In the future, we will need to raise additional funds through equity or debt financing, collaborative relationships or other methods. Our future capital requirements depend upon many factors, including: • Our ability to increase revenue, which depends on whether we and our distribution partners can increase sales of our products; • Our ability to obtain FDA clearance of our 510(k) application relating to the collagen scaffold; • Our ability to complete the CMI clinical trial and obtain FDA approval; • Our ability to effectively produce our products and adequately control the cost of production; • The extent to which we allocate resources toward development of our existing or new products; • The timing of, and extent to which, we are faced with unanticipated marketing or medical challenges or competitive pressures; • Our ability to successfully transfer liability for or restructure long-term facility leases for facilities that exceed our present capacity needs; • The amount and timing of leasehold improvements and capital equipment purchases; and • The response of competitors to our products. Because of our potential long-term capital requirements, we may access the public or private equity markets whenever conditions appear to us to be favorable, even if we do not have an immediate need for additional capital at that time. To the extent we access the equity markets, the price at which we sell shares may be lower than the current market prices for our common stock. Our stock price has historically experienced significant volatility, which may make it more difficult to price a transaction at then current market prices. There can be no assurance that any such additional funding will be available when needed or on terms favorable to us, if at all. The Board of Directors and the shareholders authorized an amendment to the Company’s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to increase the number of our authorized shares of common stock from 130,000,000 shares to 165,000,000 shares. The Company amended its Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares to 165,000,000, effective May 24, 2004. As of December 31, 2005, a total of 69,146,662 shares of the Company’s currently authorized 165,000,000 shares of common stock were issued and outstanding. Additionally, the Company has reserved 24,306,662 shares of common stock for conversion of outstanding Preferred Stock and 26,674,801 shares of common stock for exercise of stock options and warrants. The increase in the number of authorized but unissued shares of common stock will enable the Company, without further stockholder approval, to issue shares from time to time as may be required for proper business purposes, including, among others, future financing transactions. If we obtain financing through the sale of additional equity or debt securities, this could result in dilution to our stockholders by increasing the number of shares of outstanding stock. We cannot predict the effect this dilution may have on the price of our common stock. In addition, in order to obtain additional equity financing, we must have a sufficient number of authorized shares available for issuance under our charter. If such shares are not available for issuance, in order to complete such financing, we would be required to seek the approval of our shareholders to amend our charter to increase our authorized shares available for issuance. We may face challenges to our patents and proprietary rights. Our ability to develop and maintain proprietary aspects of our business, including the collagen scaffold, CMI and the SharpShooter, is critical for our future success. We rely on a combination of confidentiality protections, contractual requirements, trade secret protections, patents, trademarks and copyrights to protect 28 Table of Contents our proprietary intellectual property. Our patent positions and those of other medical device companies are uncertain and involve complex and evolving legal and factual questions. Pending patent applications may not result in issued patents. Patents issued to or licensed by us may be challenged or circumvented by competitors and such patents may not be found to be valid or sufficiently broad to protect our technology or to provide us with any competitive advantage. Any future litigation, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial expense and significant diversion of the efforts of our technical and management personnel. While we attempt to ensure that our products do not infringe other parties’ patents and proprietary rights, our competitors may assert that our products or the methods they employ are covered by patents held by them. Furthermore, third parties could obtain patents that may require licensing for the conduct of our business, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain the required licenses. We also rely on nondisclosure agreements with certain employees, consultants and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary technology. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our patents and license agreements, to protect our trade secrets or know-how or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. An adverse determination in any such proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, or require us to seek licenses from third parties or pay royalties that may be substantial. An adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing or selling certain of our products which in turn would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The terms of our Credit Agreements with Zimmer, the successor-in-interest to Centerpulse, subject us to the risk of foreclosure on certain intellectual property. Zimmer, the successor-in-interest to Centerpulse, has provided us debt financing pursuant to two Credit Agreements. The credit agreements provide that the debt will mature on the earlier of 36 months from the date we receive FDA approval for the CMI or December 31, 2009. To secure our obligations under one of the Credit Agreements (the “2000 Credit Agreement”), we have granted Zimmer a security interest in certain of our intellectual property and have agreed not to license or sell such intellectual property, other than in the ordinary course of our business. As of December 31 2005, we owed approximately $7.4 million under these credit facilities, of which approximately $4.8 million is collateralized by a security interest in certain of our intellectual property. If a specified event of default occurs under the 2000 Credit Agreement, Zimmer may exercise its right to foreclose on certain intellectual property used as collateral for the payment of these obligations. Any such default and resulting foreclosure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We are dependent on a single or a limited number of suppliers and the loss of any of these suppliers could adversely affect our business. We rely upon our vendors for the supply of raw materials and product components used in the manufacture of our collagen scaffold, CMI and SharpShooter products. Furthermore, in several cases we rely on a single vendor to supply critical materials or components. In the event that we are unable to obtain components for any of our products, or are unable to obtain such components on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to manufacture or distribute our products on a timely and competitive basis, or at all. If we experience any delays in product availability, the costs incurred in locating alternative suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our reliance on third parties to distribute our products may increase our operating costs and reduce our operating margins. We rely on third parties to distribute our products. The inability or lack of desire of these third parties to deliver or perform for us in a timely or cost-effective manner could cause our operating costs to rise and our margins to fall. We are subject to the risk that outside factors may prevent such third parties from meeting our distribution needs. 29 Table of Contents Although the FDA has not cleared our 510(k) application relating to the collagen scaffold or approved the CMI for sale in the U.S., if the FDA does clear the collagen scaffold or approve the CMI for sale in the U.S., we do not yet have a primary distributor for either product in the U.S. There is no guarantee that we will be able to find suitable third parties to effectively distribute the collagen scaffold or the CMI in the U.S. or elsewhere. We may not be successful in entering into distribution arrangements and marketing alliances with other third parties or if we do, we will be subject to a number of risks, including: • we may be required to relinquish important rights to our products; • we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our distributors may devote to the commercialization of our products; • our distributors may experience financial difficulties; and • business combinations or significant changes in a distributor’s business strategy may also adversely affect a distributor’s willingness or ability to complete its obligations under any arrangement. Failure to market and distribute products to our customers in a timely and cost effective manner would cause our potential future sales to decrease, our operating costs to increase and our margins to fall. Developing a sales and marketing organization is difficult, expensive and time-consuming. The Company has created a Swiss subsidiary to conduct its European distribution activities through local market distributors and a limited number of employees to be hired by the Company or its subsidiary. The Company may elect to conduct its marketing and distribution activities itself in the U.S. Conducting marketing and distribution activities will force us to invest in sales and marketing personnel and related costs. Developing the sales force to market and sell products is a difficult, expensive and time-consuming process. We have limited experience developing a sales organization and may be unsuccessful in attempting to do so. Factors that may inhibit our efforts to market our products without third party distributors include our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel and the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to use our products. If we are unable to develop a sales and marketing operation or if such sales or marketing operation is not successful, we may not be able to increase market awareness and sell our products through out the world. Our reliance on Zimmer as a shareholder and lender may allow it to exert control over our actions. Based on shares outstanding as of December 31, 2005, Zimmer beneficially owns approximately 6.0% of our common stock. Zimmer has also provided us debt financing pursuant to two Credit Agreements. To secure our obligations under one of the Credit Agreements, we have granted Zimmer a security interest in certain of our intellectual property and have agreed not to license or sell such intellectual property, other than in the ordinary course of our business. These factors, individually or taken together, may result in Zimmer being able to exercise substantial control over the Company. In many cases, Zimmer’s interests and the Company’s interests are not aligned and so Zimmer may exert control in a manner that is inconsistent with the Company’s interests. Disruption of our manufacturing could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations are dependent upon the continued operation of our manufacturing facility in Redwood City, California. The operation of biomedical manufacturing plants involves many risks. Such risks include the risks of breakdown, failure or substandard performance of equipment, the occurrence of natural and other disasters, and the need to comply with the requirements of directives from government agencies, including the FDA. The occurrence of material operational problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations during the period of such operational difficulties. 30 Table of Contents Our success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain key personnel. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to attract and retain qualified operating personnel. Competition for skilled personnel in the areas of research and development, manufacturing, marketing and other areas is highly competitive. In addition, we believe that our success will depend on the continued employment of our Chairman, President and CEO, Dr. Gerald Bisbee, with whom we have entered into an employment agreement, and our Senior Vice President, Clinical and Regulatory Affairs, John Dichiara, with whom we have no formal employment agreement, and others involved in the management and operation of the Company. We do not maintain key person life insurance for any of our personnel. To the extent we are unable to recruit or retain qualified personnel, our business may be adversely affected. If we, or our third party suppliers, do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous chemical and biologic materials, and produce waste products. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of such materials and waste products. Our efforts to comply with applicable environmental laws require an ongoing and significant commitment of our resources. Although we believe that our procedures for handling and disposing of such materials and waste products materially comply with the standards prescribed by such laws and regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials or waste products cannot be eliminated completely. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result and appropriate corrective action and any such liability could exceed our financial resources. Future changes in applicable federal, state or local laws or regulations or in the interpretation of current laws and regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure to comply could subject us to denial of the right to conduct business, fines, criminal penalties and other enforcement actions. Although we maintain workers’ compensation insurance to cover us for costs and expenses we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of hazardous chemical and biologic materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. We do not maintain insurance for environmental liability or toxic tort claims that may be asserted against us. If our third party suppliers do not comply with federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations applicable to the manufacture and delivery of their products, our business could be adversely affected by the affects on third party product supply and/or pricing or we could be held liable for any resulting damages. Our business could be materially adversely impacted by risks inherent in international markets. During the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, approximately 27% and 46%, respectively, of our revenue from sales was generated by customers outside the U.S. We expect that customers outside the U.S. will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue in the future, at least until we are able to market the collagen scaffold or the CMI (or other new products) in the U.S. Our international sales subject us to inherent risks related to changes in the economic, political, legal and business environments in the foreign countries in which we do business, including the following: • Fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • Regulatory, product approval and reimbursement requirements; • Tariffs and other trade barriers; • Greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; • Difficulties and costs of managing foreign distributors; • Reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • Burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; 31 Table of Contents • The impact of recessions in economies outside the U.S.; and • Political and economic instability. If we fail to successfully market and sell our products in international markets, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Our full Board of Directors, which is not fully independent, acts as the compensation committee; therefore, compensation and benefits may be excessive, inadequate or improperly structured. Our compensation committee, which was set up to determine the compensation and benefits of our executive officers, to administer our stock plans and employee benefit plans and to review policies relating to the compensation and benefits of our employees, and which formerly consisted of one director who was not independent under the listing standards of the national securities exchanges and automated quotation systems, has been eliminated. The full Board of Directors now performs those duties. Compensation decisions made by a Board of Directors, which is not independent, could result in excess compensation or benefits to our executives or employees. Additionally, the Board of Directors could recommend inadequate or improperly structured compensation and benefits for our executives or employees, which could result in a failure to retain or an inability to hire executives or employees. The price of our common stock has been, and will likely continue to be, volatile. The market price of our common stock, like that of the securities of many other development stage companies, has fluctuated over a wide range and it is likely that the price of our common stock will fluctuate in the future. Over the past three fiscal years, the closing price of our common stock, as reported by the OTC Bulletin Board, has fluctuated from a low of $0.41 to a high of $1.54. The market price of our common stock could be impacted by a variety of factors, including: • Fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies or of the markets generally; • Disclosure of the results of regulatory proceedings, including the clearance or lack of clearance of our 510(k) application relating to the collagen scaffold or the approval or lack of approval by the FDA of the CMI; • Changes in government regulation; • Additions or departures of key personnel; • Our investments in research and development or other corporate resources; • Announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products or services by us or our competitors; • Developments in the patents or other proprietary rights owned or licensed by us or our competitors; • The timing of new product introductions; • Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • Our ability to effectively and consistently manufacture our products and avoid costs associated with the recall of defective or potentially defective products; • Our ability and the ability of our distribution partners to market and sell our products; • Changes in distribution channels; and • The ability of our vendors to effectively and timely deliver necessary materials and product components. Further, due to the relatively fixed nature of most of our costs, which primarily include personnel costs as well as facilities costs, any unanticipated shortfall in revenue in any fiscal quarter would have an adverse 32 Table of Contents effect on our results of operations in that quarter. Accordingly, our operating results for any particular quarter may not be indicative of results for future periods and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. These fluctuations could cause the trading price of our stock to be negatively affected. Our quarterly operating results have varied substantially in the past and may vary substantially in the future. In addition, the stock market has been very volatile, particularly on the OTC Bulletin Board where our stock is quoted. This volatility is often not related to the operating performance of companies listed thereon and will probably continue in the foreseeable future. Ownership of our stock is concentrated and this small group of stockholders may exercise substantial control over our actions. Based on shares outstanding as of December 31, 2005, the following entities beneficially own five percent or more of our common stock: Robert McNeil, Ph.D. owns approximately 28.4% (which includes shares owned by Sanderling Ventures); Sanderling Ventures owns approximately 27.4%; Iridian Asset Management, LLC (First Eagle Fund) owns approximately 7.8%, Zimmer, the successor-in-interest to Centerpulse, owns approximately 6.0%, L-R Global Partners LP and L-R Partners Global Fund, Ltd. own approximately 6.2% (4.2% and 2.0% respectively), Gerald E. Bisbee, Jr., Ph.D. owns approximately 5.3% and Angelo Gordon and affiliates owns approximately 5.1%. These stockholders, if acting together, have the ability to exert substantial influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control. Additionally, the holders of approximately 31.1% of our outstanding common stock on an as converted basis are parties to a stockholders’ agreement. The parties to the stockholders’ agreement agreed to vote all of their shares of capital stock of ReGen in favor of certain corporate actions, including but not limited to, maintaining ReGen’s board of directors at seven members, electing certain individuals to ReGen’s board, a reverse split of the capital stock of ReGen, amending ReGen’s certificate of incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of common stock of ReGen and amending ReGen’s by-laws. A substantial number of shares of our common stock are eligible for sale and this could cause our common stock price to decline significantly. All of the shares of common stock issued in connection with the merger of the Company and RBio and the shares of common stock issued or issuable upon exercise of warrants or conversion of preferred stock issued in connection with the financings in September 2003, April 2004 and July 2005 are eligible for sale, other than the shares of common stock issued or issuable upon exercise of the 2005 Warrants issued in the July 2005 Financing. As a result, there are 65,158,292 shares eligible for sale as of March 10, 2005. Our Series A Stock and our Series C Stock are convertible into common stock on a one-for-one basis, and are convertible at any time at the election of the holders of Series A Stock and our Series C Stock. The 2005 Warrants may be exercised to purchase shares of common stock at any time at an initial exercise price of $1.00, subject to adjustment. In order to sell the shares of common stock issuable upon the conversion of convertible preferred stock or the exercise of warrants, any such shares of Series A Stock and Series C Stock and any such 2005 Warrants must first be converted into or exercised for shares of common stock by the selling stockholders thereof. If our stockholders sell, or the market perceives that our stockholders intend to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. These sales may also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As a result of restrictions on resale ending and in conjunction with the eligibility to sell common stock by the selling stockholders, the market price of our common stock could drop significantly if the holders of such shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. 33 Table of Contents The subordination of our common stock to our preferred stock could hurt common stockholders. Our common stock is expressly subordinate to our Series A Stock and Series C Stock in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. With respect to our Series A Stock and Series C Stock, any merger or sale of substantially all of our assets shall be considered a deemed liquidation. If we were to cease operations and liquidate our assets, we would, as of December 31, 2005, first be required to pay approximately $10.9 million to the holders of our Series A Stock and Series C Stock and there may not be any remaining value available for distribution to the holders of common stock after providing for the Series A Stock and Series C Stock liquidation preference. The exercise of warrants or options may depress our stock price and may result in dilution to our common stockholders. There are a significant number of outstanding warrants and options to purchase our stock. If the market price of our common stock rises above the exercise price of outstanding warrants and options, holders of those securities are likely to exercise their warrants and options and sell the common stock acquired upon exercise of such warrants and options in the open market. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market by holders of warrants or options may depress the prevailing market price for our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the future sale of our equity securities. Additionally, if the holders of outstanding options or warrants exercise those options or warrants, our common stockholders will incur dilution. As of December 31, 2005, warrants to purchase 7,223,897 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $0.72 per share were outstanding and exercisable and options to purchase 12,494,220 shares of common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $0.65 per share were outstanding and exercisable. We issue common stock and grant stock options and warrants as payment for consulting services and the exercise of such options and warrants may result in dilution to our common stockholders. In the past we have issued common stock and granted stock options and warrants to purchase our common stock as payment for consulting services and we may continue to do so in the future. During 2005 we issued 100,000 shares valued at $93,000, to a vendor in partial payment for consulting services. In 2004, we issued 10,000 options to acquire common stock with an exercise price of $0.90 per share. In 2003, we issued 30,523 options to acquire common stock with an exercise price of $0.45 per share and 700,000 warrants to acquire common stock with an exercise price of $0.45 per share. In 2002, we issued 1,543,478 options to acquire common stock as payment for consulting services with exercise prices ranging from $0.13 per share to $0.22 per share. To the extent that we issue additional shares of stock or such options or warrants are exercised, our shareholders will incur dilution. We may not be able to utilize all of our net operating loss carryforwards. The Company had a net operating loss carryforward at December 31, 2005 of approximately $57.2 million and a research and development tax credit of approximately $410,000. The federal and state net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2006, if not utilized. The federal and state research and development credit carryforwards will begin to expire in 2006, if not utilized. The utilization of net operating loss carryforwards may be limited due to changes in the ownership of the Company, a lack of taxable income in future periods, and the effect of the reverse merger and recapitalization completed on June 21, 2002. We have established several anti-takeover measures that could delay or prevent a change of our control. Under the terms of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our board of directors is authorized, without any need for action by our stockholders, but subject to any limitations prescribed by law, to issue shares of our preferred stock in one or more series. Each series may consist of such number of shares and have the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, such as dividend rights, dividend rates, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, redemption prices, liquidation preferences and the right to increase 34 Table of Contents or decrease the number of shares of any series, as the board of directors shall determine. The board of directors may issue preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that may delay, defer or prevent a change in control of our company and that may adversely affect the market price of the common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of common stock. Additionally, our board of directors adopted a stockholder rights plan and declared a dividend distribution of one right for each outstanding share of our common stock. Each right, when exercisable, entitles the registered holder to purchase securities at a specified purchase price, subject to adjustment. The rights plan may have the anti-takeover effect of causing substantial dilution to the person or group that attempts to acquire our company on terms not approved by the board of directors. The existence of the rights plan could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our capital stock and could delay, defer or prevent a merger or acquisition of our company that stockholders may consider favorable. Our common stock is subject to the SEC’s Penny Stock rules, which may make our shares more difficult to sell. Because our common stock is not traded on a stock exchange or on NASDAQ, and the market price of the common stock is less than $5.00 per share, the common stock is classified as a “penny stock.” The SEC rules regarding penny stocks may have the effect of reducing trading activity in our common stock and making it more difficult for investors to sell. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: • make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; • receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; • provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; • obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed; and • give bid and offer quotations and broker and salesperson compensation information to the customer orally or in writing before or with the confirmation. These rules may make it more difficult for broker-dealers to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities and may result in a lower trading volume of our common stock and lower trading prices. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 