Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our Senior Notes and common stock involves a high degree of risk. The risks can generally be divided into three categories: risks relating to our Plan of Liquidation; risks relating to our assets and liabilities; and risks relating to our organization and structure. The risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our net assets in liquidation and cash flows to differ materially from those suggested by this filing or which may materially and adversely affect our performance and the timing and amount repaid to the Senior Note holders include, but are not limited to, those discussed below or identified elsewhere in this Report or from time to time in our public filings. Risks related to our Plan of Liquidation We cannot assure the Senior Note holders of the timing or amount of their liquidating distributions. If note holders believe that we will be unable to complete our Plan of Liquidation in a timely manner or if liquidating distributions do not meet current estimates, the market price of our notes may decline. As a result of the adoption of the Plan of Liquidation, our basis of accounting has changed from the going-concern basis to that of the liquidation basis of accounting. Under the liquidation basis of accounting, assets are stated at their estimated net realizable value and liabilities are stated at their estimated settlement amount. These estimates will be periodically reviewed and adjusted as appropriate. The valuation of assets at their net realizable value and liabilities at their anticipated settlement amount represent estimates, based on present facts and circumstances of the net realizable value of our assets and the costs associated with carrying out the Plan of Liquidation based on certain assumptions. The actual values and costs associated with carrying out the Plan of Liquidation are expected to differ from the amounts reflected in the accompanying financial statements because of the plan’s inherent uncertainty. These differences may be material. In particular, the estimates of our costs will vary with the length of time necessary to complete the Plan of Liquidation. Accordingly, it is not possible to predict with certainty the aggregate amount which will ultimately be distributed to note holders and no assurance can be given that the distributions will equal or exceed the estimate presented in the accompanying Statement of Net Assets in Liquidation or the price at which the Senior Notes have traded or are expected to trade in the future. 5 Table of Contents A number of other factors including (i) unknown liabilities or claims, (ii) greater or less than expected expenses, and (iii) greater or less than anticipated net proceeds of asset sales could result in the distributions to the Senior Note holders being more or less than anticipated or delayed. As a result of the adoption of a Plan of Liquidation, potential purchasers of our assets may try to take advantage of our liquidation process and offer less-than-optimal prices for our assets. We cannot predict how these factors and changes in aviation markets and the national economy or other factors may affect the prices that we can obtain from sales of our remaining assets or the timing of such sales. It is becoming more difficult to offset the costs of collecting the remaining portfolio. As we continue to liquidate assets and change our portfolio composition, it becomes increasingly more difficult to offset the costs associated with collecting the remaining portfolio and being a public company. Additionally, we incur the risks of potential liabilities that are associated with dispositions of assets, in the form of indemnifications, representations and warranties. Our Board may abandon the Plan of Liquidation without further action by our stockholders or the Bankruptcy Court. Furthermore, our Board may modify the Plan of Liquidation as necessary, but any material amendment may require further approval of the Bankruptcy Court or stockholders. Thus, we may decide to conduct the liquidation differently than as described, to the extent we are permitted to do so by Delaware law. At any time, we may transfer to a liquidating trust any assets not sold or distributed, subject to outstanding liabilities. If a liquidating trust were established, we would distribute to the then holders of Senior Notes interests in the liquidating trust in proportion to the number of notes owned by such note holders. Such a distribution could have tax ramifications to note holders. Historically, extraordinary corporate actions, such as a plan of liquidation, often lead to securities lawsuits being filed against a company. We are currently not aware of any pending securities lawsuits relating to our Plan of Liquidation; however, in the event such litigation should occur, it is likely to be expensive and, even if we ultimately prevail, the process will be time consuming and will divert management’s attention from implementing the Plan of Liquidation and otherwise operating our business. If we do not prevail in any such lawsuit, we may be liable for damages, the validity of our approval of the Plan of Liquidation may be challenged, or we may be unable to complete some transactions that we contemplated as part of the Plan of Liquidation. We cannot predict the outcome or the amount of expenses and damages, but the amounts could have a material adverse effect on our business, net assets in liquidation, cash flows and the timing and amount of liquidating distributions to Senior Note holders. Risks related to our Assets and Liabilities Our ability to sell the remaining assets is impacted by limitations of buyers. Risks associated with the sale of our assets, which if they materialize, could have a material adverse effect on our business, net assets in liquidation and cash flows include: • Lack of demand by prospective buyers; • Inability to find qualified buyers; • Inability of buyers to obtain satisfactory financing; • Lower than anticipated sale prices; and • The inability to close on sales of assets under contract. Our net assets in liquidation and cash flows are greatly affected by economic conditions and the performance of our borrowers. Economic conditions in general or in particular market segments could impair the ability of our borrowers to operate or expand their businesses, which might result in decreased performance, adversely affecting their ability to repay their obligations to us. If this were to occur, the rate of borrower defaults or bankruptcies may increase. A worsening of economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to realize estimated cash flows. Continued instability and uncertainty in the airline industry could adversely affect the value of our aircraft portfolio, lease rates and demand. Conditions affecting our aircraft portfolio, include changes in Federal Aviation Administration directives and demand for used aircraft and spare parts. Our aircraft are often of older vintage and contain configurations of engines, avionics, fuel tanks and other components that may not be as high in demand as other available aircraft in that class. Future demand for those aircraft may decrease as newer or more desirable aircraft and components become available. High fuel prices may adversely affect the demand for less fuel-efficient aircraft, including many of those in our portfolio. 6 Table of Contents We rely on information from third parties, which may not be accurate. Third party information is supplied by our borrowers or prepared by appraisers. Inaccuracies in that information could lead to inaccuracies in our estimates, including asset valuations and cash flow projections. We are increasingly subject to concentrations of credit risk. As our portfolio declines, increasing concentrations of financial assets in certain industries such as aviation could make our overall portfolio more sensitive to changes in performance in that industry. Additionally, we previously completed multiple financial transactions with individual borrowers and their affiliates. As a result, we are subject to greater total exposure to those borrowers beyond the typical transaction size and increased concentration risk to economic events affecting the industries (including aviation) of such borrowers and their affiliates. Current and future legal and administrative claims and proceedings against us may result in increased costs and diversion of management’s attention. We are party either as plaintiff or defendant to various actions, proceedings and pending claims, including legal actions, some of which involve claims for compensatory, punitive or other damages in significant amounts. Litigation often results from our attempts to enforce our lending agreements against borrowers and other parties to those transactions. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties. It is possible that some of the legal actions, proceedings or claims could be decided against us. Legal matters decided against us could have a material adverse impact on our net assets in liquidation or cash flows. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” for a discussion of specific claims outstanding against us. We have current and future obligations to creditors. Claims, liabilities and expenses from operations (such as operating costs, salaries, bonuses, management fees, directors’ and officers’ insurance, payroll and local taxes, legal professional services, accounting and consulting fees and miscellaneous office expenses) will continue to be incurred through the liquidation process. As part of this process, we will attempt to satisfy any obligations with creditors remaining after the sale of our assets. These expenses will reduce the amount of assets available for ultimate distribution to Senior Note holders. To the extent our liabilities exceed the estimates that we have made, the amount of liquidating distributions to Senior Note holders will be reduced. Cash reserve estimations are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could materially impact our ability to meet obligations as they come due. The terms of the Indenture governing the Senior Notes prohibit us from using available funds (after certain permitted uses) for any purpose other than to satisfy our obligations to creditors and to make limited payments to stockholders in certain circumstances. Under the terms of the Indenture, we are permitted to establish a cash reserve in an amount not to exceed certain defined criteria. Due to our limited sources of liquidity, the estimation of cash reserves is critical to our overall liquidity. Failure to adequately estimate a cash reserve in one period could result in insufficient liquidity to meet obligations in that period, or in a subsequent period, if actual cash requirements exceed the cash reserve estimates. Historically, cash reserves typically equaled anticipated cash flows to cover operating costs, tax payments, fundings under existing customer commitments, interest payments and any other necessary cash flows expected to occur during the next six month period. We have the discretion to and have from time to time adjusted our cash reserve methodology. As we continue to liquidate assets, our incoming cash flows will diminish and the estimation of cash reserves will become increasingly more critical to ensure we retain sufficient funds to meet obligations (including, but not limited to, interest payments on the Senior Notes, settlement of known and unknown claims and normal operating expenses) as they become due throughout the liquidation process. Cash investments are subject to credit exposure and interest rate fluctuations, which could result in the increase or decrease in the value of the investments. A substantial portion of our cash reserves are invested in short-term instruments, including money markets, federal agencies, government sponsored enterprises, commercial paper and other investments. Although our investment policy is designed to provide for short-term liquidity and low levels of risk, such investments are subject to credit exposure and interest rate fluctuations. Consequently, the value of investments could increase or decrease accordingly. Any decrease would reduce the amount available for distribution to Senior Note holders. Risks related to our Organization and Structure We may not be able to retain key employees. We must retain a sufficient number of employees with relevant knowledge and skills to continue to monitor, collect and sell our portfolio. Additionally, we must retain key employees that are experienced with our internal systems and have the skills to research information that is vital in our ability to refute known and unknown claims that may surface as we complete the liquidation and dissolution process. Our failure to do so could result in additional losses or more cash being directed towards the settlement of claims. Retention incentives intended to retain those key employees may not be successful in the future. In addition, as staff is reduced, internal controls and procedures must be readjusted to help assure proper handling and reporting of financial and other matters. Doing so becomes more difficult as our staff is reduced, and the loss of key personnel could have a significant impact on our ability to maximize value from our portfolio and minimize the settlement of claims. 7 Table of Contents It is unlikely we will be able to utilize our tax attributes. We have not recorded a benefit in our financial statements for existing tax attributes and estimated future tax deductions since we do not expect to generate the future taxable income needed to use those tax benefits. We do not anticipate being able to use those tax attributes, including most of our net operating loss carryforwards. We intend to continue to conduct our operations in a manner that will exempt us from the registration requirements of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “1940 Act”). We believe that we are not within or will not be within the definition of “investment company” as that term is defined under the 1940 Act, or alternatively, we may rely on one or more of the 1940 Act’s exemptions. If we were deemed to be an investment company because of our investment securities holdings, we must register as an investment company under the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act places significant restrictions on the capital structure and corporate governance of a registered investment company. Compliance with the 1940 Act could also increase our operating costs. Such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business and the timing and amount of liquidating distributions to Senior Note holders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 