Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows to differ materially from those suggested by this filing or which may materially and adversely affect our performance and the amount repaid to the Senior Note holders include, but are not limited to, those discussed below or identified elsewhere in this Report or from time to time in our public filings. We may not be successful in implementing our business strategy. The carrying amounts and impairment of our portfolio are based on estimates of asset value and the estimation and timing of future cash flows. Actual results may differ from the estimated amounts. If we fail to fully implement our business strategy to maximize the value of our portfolio through orderly collection or sales of assets, our ability to repay our outstanding debt and other obligations could be impaired and could have a materially adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. Our results of operations and financial condition are greatly affected by economic conditions and the performance of our borrowers. Economic conditions in general or in particular market segments could impair the ability of our borrowers to operate or expand their businesses, which might result in decreased performance, adversely affecting their ability to repay their obligations to us. If this were to occur, the rate of borrower defaults or bankruptcies may increase. A worsening of economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to realize estimated cash flows. We may not be able to retain our employees. We must retain a sufficient number of employees with relevant knowledge and skills to continue to monitor, collect and sell our portfolio. Our failure to do so could result in additional losses. Retention incentives intended to retain that employee base may not be successful in the future. In addition, as staff is reduced, internal controls and procedures must be readjusted to help assure proper handling and reporting of financial and other matters. Doing so becomes more difficult as our staff is reduced, and the loss of key personnel could have a significant impact on our ability to monitor, collect and manage our portfolio. Continued instability and uncertainty in the airline industry could adversely affect the value of our aircraft portfolio, lease rates and demand. Conditions affecting our aircraft portfolio, including changes in Federal Aviation Administration directives and demand for used aircraft and spare parts. Our aircraft are often of older vintage and contain configurations of engines, avionics, fuel tanks and other components that may not be as high in demand as other available aircraft in that class. Future demand for those aircraft may decrease as newer or more desirable aircraft and components become available. High fuel prices may adversely affect the demand for less fuel-efficient aircraft, including many of those in our portfolio. It is unlikely we will be able to utilize our tax attributes. We have not recorded a benefit in our financial statements for existing tax attributes and estimated future tax deductions since we do not expect to generate the future taxable income needed to use those tax benefits. We may never be able to use those tax attributes, including most of our net operating loss carryforwards. It is becoming more difficult to offset the costs of collecting the remaining portfolio. As we continue to liquidate assets and change our portfolio composition, it becomes increasingly more difficult to offset the costs associated with collecting the remaining portfolio and being a public company. Additionally, we incur the risks of potential liabilities that are associated with dispositions of assets, in the form of indemnifications, representations and warranties. We rely on information from third parties, which may not be accurate. Third party information is supplied by our borrowers or prepared by appraisers. Inaccuracies in that information could lead to inaccuracies in our estimates, including asset valuations and cash flow projections. We are increasingly subject to concentrations of credit risk. As our portfolio declines, increasing concentrations of financial assets in certain industries such as transportation could make our overall portfolio more sensitive to changes in performance in that industry. Additionally, we previously completed multiple financial transactions with individual borrowers and their affiliates. As a result, we are subject to greater total exposure to those borrowers beyond the typical transaction size and increased concentration risk to economic events affecting the industries (including transportation) of such borrowers and their affiliates. Current and future legal and administrative claims and proceedings against us may result in increased costs and diversion of management’s attention. We are party either as plaintiff or defendant to various actions, proceedings and pending claims, including legal actions, some of which involve claims for compensatory, punitive or other damages in significant amounts. Litigation often results from our attempts to enforce our lending agreements against borrowers and other parties to those transactions. 6 Table of Contents Litigation is subject to many uncertainties. It is possible that some of the legal actions, proceedings or claims could be decided against us. Legal matters decided against us could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” for a discussion of specific claims outstanding against us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 