ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a variety of risks and thus an investment in our stock is also subject to risk. The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and in the forward-looking statements that are contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as certain of our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Any of the following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, the trading price of our stock and the outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or currently believe are immaterial may also impact our business operations.All of our stores are located within the United States, making us highly susceptible to macroeconomic conditions in the United States and their impact on consumer demand for our apparel and accessories. General economic conditions, particularly those in the United States, may adversely affect our business. All of our stores are located within the United States, making our results highly dependent on U.S. macroeconomic conditions and their impact on consumer spending. In addition, a significant portion of our total sales is derived from stores located in nine states: Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, New York, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, resulting in further dependence on local economic conditions in these states. While the United States economy has improved since the global financial crisis in 2008, a prolonged economic downturn and slow recovery, including higher rates of unemployment, rising commodity prices, declining real estate market values and increasing tax rates, have had in the past, and may continue to have, a material negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, economic conditions could negatively impact the Company's retail landlords and their ability to maintain their shopping centers in a first-class condition and otherwise perform their obligations, which in turn could negatively impact our sales.Our ability to attract customers to our stores that are located in regional malls and other shopping centers depends heavily on the success of the malls and the centers in which our stores are located, and any decrease in customer traffic could cause our sales to be less than expected. The vast majority of our current stores are located in shopping malls and other retail centers. Sales at these stores are derived in considerable part from the volume of traffic generated in those malls or retail centers and surrounding areas. Our stores benefit from the ability of adjacent tenants to generate consumer traffic near our stores and the continuing popularity of the regional malls and outlet, lifestyle and power centers where our stores are located. Customer traffic and, in turn, our sales volume may be adversely affected by, among other things, economic downturns nationally or regionally, high fuel prices, increased competition from other retail companies or from non-mall or retail centers where we do not have stores, changes in consumer demographics, the closing of anchor stores or a decline in the popularity of shopping malls and other retail centers among our target customers. A reduction in customer traffic as a result of these and any other factors could result in lower sales and leave us with excess inventory. In such circumstances, we may have to respond by increasing markdowns or initiating marketing promotions to reduce excess inventory, which could adversely impact our merchandise margins and operating income. To take advantage of customer traffic and the shopping preferences of our customers, we need to maintain or acquire stores in desirable locations where competition for suitable store locations is strong.Our inability to sustain an acceptable level of gross margins could have a material adverse impact on our business, profitability and liquidity. We experienced significant declines in our overall gross margin for the transition period ended January 28, 2012. During the latter portion of the fiscal year ended February 2, 2013, we were able to begin reversing this trend and achieved improvement in our gross margins; however, our ability to maintain or improve these margins is subject to a variety of challenges.The apparel industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from customers to reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer spending patterns. These factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to consumers, which could cause our gross margin to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory levels and/or otherwise offset price reductions with comparable reductions in our operating costs. If our sales prices decline and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, it will adversely impact our operating income. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.9Table of ContentsWe operate in a highly competitive retail industry. The size and resources of some of our competitors may allow them to compete more effectively than we can, which could reduce our revenues, profits and market share. The women's specialty retail apparel business is highly competitive. We believe we compete primarily with department stores, specialty stores, discount stores, mass merchandisers and Internet-based retailers that sell women's apparel. Many of our competitors are companies with greater financial, marketing and other resources available to them and may offer a broader selection of merchandise than we do. They may be able to adapt to changes in customer preferences more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products, generate greater national brand recognition or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. In addition, the women's specialty apparel industry has become more promotional over the past several years. As a result, we are likely to continue to experience pricing pressure, which in turn could lead to increased marketing expenditures, loss of market share and reduced gross margins. In addition to competing for sales, we compete for favorable store locations, lease terms and qualified associates. Increased competition in these areas may result in higher costs, which could reduce our sales and margins and adversely affect our results of operations.If we are unable to anticipate or react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner and offer a compelling product at an attractive price, our sales, gross margins and results of operations would be adversely impacted.Our success largely depends on our ability to consistently gauge and respond on a timely basis to fashion trends and provide a balanced assortment of merchandise that satisfies changing fashion tastes and customer demands. Forecasting consumer demand for our merchandise is difficult. In addition, our merchandise assortment differs from season to season and, at any given time, our assortment may not resonate with our customers. On average, we begin the design process for apparel six to eight months before the merchandise is available to customers, and we typically begin to make purchase commitments four to six months in advance of delivery to stores. These lead times can make it difficult for us to respond quickly to changes in the demand for our products or to adjust the cost of the product in response to customers' fashion or price preferences. Any missteps may affect merchandise desirability and gross margins, and result in excess inventory levels. If we miscalculate either the market for our merchandise or our customers' tastes or purchasing habits, we may be required to sell a significant amount of unsold inventory at below average markups over cost, or below cost, which would have an adverse effect on our margins and results of operations. On the other hand, if we underestimate demand for our merchandise, we may experience inventory shortages, resulting in missed sales and lost revenues.If we are unable to maintain the value of our brands and our trademarks, that may adversely affect our business and financial performance. The Christopher & Banks and C.J. Banks brand names are integral to our business. Maintaining, promoting, positioning and growing our brands will depend largely on the success of our design, merchandising and marketing efforts and on our ability to provide a consistent, high quality customer experience. Our business could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve these objectives for our brands. In addition, our public image and reputation could be tarnished by negative publicity. Any of these events could negatively impact sales. We also believe that our “christopher & banks”, “cj banks” and related trademarks are important to our success and we register a number of our trademarks in an effort to protect them. Even though we take actions to establish, register and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights, we cannot be sure that we will be successful or that others will not imitate or infringe upon our intellectual property rights. In addition, we cannot assure that others will not seek to block the sale of our products as infringements of their trademark and proprietary rights. If we cannot adequately protect our existing and future trademarks or prevent infringement of them, our business and financial performance could suffer. In addition, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property rights or in marks that are similar to ours, and we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In some cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar marks. Failure to protect our trademarks could adversely affect our business.There are risks associated with our e-commerce business. We sell merchandise over the internet through our web sites, www.christopherandbanks.com and www.cjbanks.com, which represent a modest percentage of our total sales. Our e-commerce operations are subject to numerous risks, including: •unanticipated operating problems;•the successful implementation of new systems and upgrades; •reliance on a single third party relating to the operation of the website order fulfillment and customer service; •reliance on third party computer hardware and software; •diversion of sales from our stores; 10Table of Contents•liability for online content; •lack of compliance with or violations of applicable state or federal laws and regulations, including those relating to online privacy and the resulting impact on consumer purchases; •credit card fraud; •system failures or security breaches and the costs to address and remedy such failures or breaches; and •timely delivery of our merchandise to our customers by third parties. There also can be no assurance that our e-commerce operations will meet our sales and profitability plans, and the failure to do so could negatively impact our revenues and earnings.If third parties who manage some aspects of our business do not adequately perform their functions, we might experience disruptions in our business, resulting in decreased profits or losses and damage to our reputation. We use third parties in various aspects of our business or to support our operations. We have a long-term contract with a third party to manage much of our e-commerce operations, including order management, order fulfillment and customer service. We rely on third parties to inspect the factories where our products are made for compliance with our vendor code of conduct. We may rely on a third party for the implementation and/or management of certain aspects of our information technology infrastructure. We also rely on third parties to transport merchandise and deliver it to our distribution center, as well as to ship merchandise to our stores and to our third party e-commerce fulfillment center. Failure by any of these third parties to perform these functions effectively and properly could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our profitability and reputation.Extreme and/or unseasonable weather conditions could have a disproportionate effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our stores are located could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, inclement weather conditions over a prolonged period might make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores and/or result in temporary store closures. Our business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could render a portion of our merchandise offerings incompatible with those unseasonable conditions in the affected areas.Natural disasters, pandemic outbreaks, terrorist acts and global political events could cause permanent or temporary distribution center or store closures, impair our ability to purchase, receive or replenish inventory or cause customer traffic to decline, all of which could result in lost sales and otherwise adversely affect our financial performance. The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as tornadoes, fires, flood and earthquakes, pandemic outbreaks, terrorist acts or disruptive global political events, such as civil unrest in countries in which our suppliers are located, or similar disruptions could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. To the extent these events result in the closure of our distribution center and/or corporate headquarters, or a significant number of our stores, or impact one or more of our key suppliers, our operations and financial performance could be materially adversely affected. These events also could have indirect consequences, such as loss of property or other damage which may or may not be covered by insurance.We may not continue to successfully implement our strategic and tactical initiatives. In conjunction with several changes in the chief executive officer position and in our merchant organization over the past 12 to 15 months, we have undertaken a series of initiatives to improve sales, gross margins and earnings in order to return to profitability. While considerable progress on these initiatives has been made, our ability to continue to make progress depends upon a number of factors (such as continuing to provide our customers with a compelling, well balanced product assortment at reasonable prices and optimization of inventory productivity) which could result in unexpected costs, delays or failure to meet our internal expectations. If we are unable to improve our financial performance, our results of operations and ability to generate cash flow could be adversely affected.We are subject to risks associated with leasing all of our store locations. We currently lease all of our store locations. Our leases range from month-to-month to approximately ten years. A number of our leases have early termination provisions if we do not achieve specified sales levels after an initial term and, in some cases, allow us to pay rent based on a percent of sales if we fail to achieve certain specified sales levels. The leases for approximately 11Table of Contents59% of our store base expire between March 1, 2013 and January 31, 2015. We believe that over the last few years we have been able to negotiate favorable rental rates and extend leases due in part to the state of the economy and higher than usual vacancy rates. It is possible this trend may not continue and that we will either need to pay higher operating costs or close stores in connection with such lease extension negotiations, which could adversely impact our financial performance, results of operations and ability to generate cash flow. Improving our store productivity will be largely dependent upon our success in continuing to rationalize our existing store portfolio, as well as in maintaining or increasing customer traffic in our stores and converting that traffic into sales. The average sales per square foot in our stores has improved during the recently completed fiscal year, a reflection of the positive effect of our strategic and tactical initiatives. However, the average sales per square foot of our current store base is well below historical levels. Improving the profitability of our existing stores and optimizing store productivity is critical to our future growth and profitability. Our ability to increase the productivity of our stores will be largely dependent upon our ability to continue to rationalize our existing store portfolio as well as our ability to generate customer traffic to our stores and to convert that traffic into sales.We have closed more than 170 stores over the last 24 months and, as of March 1, 2013, operate 605 stores. We expect that the reduction in store locations will help to increase our store productivity by eliminating overlap in certain markets and allowing management to focus its resources, such as store merchandise inventories and capital expenditures, on a more streamlined and more productive store base. If the restructured occupancy costs or improvements in store productivity are not at the level that we expect, our revenues, margins, liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected.We are highly dependent on a few suppliers and our business could suffer if we needed to replace them. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities. Instead we depend on independent third parties to manufacture our merchandise. For the most recently completed fiscal year, our ten largest suppliers accounted for approximately 56% of the merchandise we purchased and we purchased 18% and 12% of our goods respectively from our two largest suppliers. We generally maintain non-exclusive relationships with the suppliers that manufacture our merchandise and we compete with other companies for production facilities. As a result, we have no contractual assurances of continued supply or pricing, and any supplier, including our key suppliers, could discontinue selling to us at any time. Moreover, a key supplier may not be able to supply our inventory needs due to capacity constraints, financial instability or other factors beyond our control, or we could decide to stop using a supplier due to quality or other issues. If we were required to change suppliers or if a key supplier were unable to supply desired merchandise in sufficient quantities on acceptable terms, we could experience delays in receipt of inventory until alternative supply arrangements were secured. These delays could result in lost sales and a decline in customer satisfaction.Our reliance on foreign sources of production poses various risks. For the last fiscal year, we directly imported approximately 28% of our merchandise, and much of the merchandise we purchase domestically is made overseas. Substantially all of our directly imported merchandise is manufactured in Asia. Because a significant portion of our merchandise is produced overseas, we are subject to the various risks of doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, such as: •significant delays in the delivery of cargo; •imposition of or increases in duties, taxes or other charges on imports; •imposition of new legislation or regulations relating to import quotas or other restrictions that may limit or prohibit merchandise that may be imported into the United States from countries or regions where we do business or increase the cost of the merchandise we purchase; •financial or political instability in any of the countries in which our merchandise is manufactured;•potential recalls or cancellations of orders for any merchandise that does not meet our quality standards; •inability to meet our production needs due to labor shortages; and•natural disasters, political or military conflicts, disease epidemics and health related concerns, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas. Any of the foregoing factors, or a combination of them, could result in our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of merchandise or increase our costs, thereby negatively impacting sales, gross profit and operating income.12Table of ContentsIt is also possible that the inability of our suppliers to access credit, or concerns suppliers or their lenders may have with our creditworthiness, may cause them to extend less favorable terms to us, which could adversely affect our cash flows, margins and financial condition, as well as limit the availability under our revolving line of credit. Additionally, delays by our suppliers in supplying our inventory needs could cause us to incur more expensive transportation charges, which may adversely affect our margins.Costs of raw materials, transportation or labor rates may increase, which could erode margins and impact our profitability. The raw materials used to manufacture our products and our transportation and contract manufacturing labor costs are subject to availability constraints and price volatility. Consequently, higher product costs as a result of one or more of these factors could have a negative effect on our gross profits, as we may not be able to pass such costs on to our customers and, therefore, our gross margins may decline due to such higher sourcing costs.We rely on independent third party transportation providers for substantially all of our merchandise shipments. We currently rely upon independent third party transportation providers for substantially all of our merchandise shipments, including shipments to our stores, our e-commerce fulfillment center and our e-commerce customers. Our use of outside delivery services for shipments is subject to a variety of risks which may impact a shipper's ability to provide delivery services that adequately meet our shipping needs. If we change shipping companies, we could face logistical difficulties that could adversely impact deliveries and we would incur costs and expend resources in connection with such a change. Moreover, we may not be able to obtain terms as favorable as those received from independent third party transportation providers we currently use, which would increase our costs.We and our suppliers utilize ports to import our products from Asia and other regions.The vast majority of our products are shipped by ocean. If a disruption occurs, for whatever reason, in the operation of ports through which our products are imported, we and our suppliers may have to ship some or all of our products from Asia by air freight or to alternative shipping destinations in the United States. Shipping by air is significantly more expensive than shipping by ocean and our profitability could be reduced. Similarly, shipping to alternative destinations in the U.S. could lead to increased lead times and costs on our products. A disruption at ports (domestic or abroad) through which our products are imported could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.Our business could suffer if one or more of our suppliers fails to comply with applicable laws or to follow acceptable labor practices. We expect manufacturers of the goods that we sell to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations and comply with our social compliance program. Although each of our purchase orders requires adherence to accepted labor practices, applicable laws and compliance with our vendor code of conduct, we do not supervise or control our suppliers or the manufacturers that produce the merchandise we sell. Our social compliance program is intended to promote ethical business practices, and our staff and the staff of the third party auditing service company periodically visit or inspect the operations of our independent manufacturers to, among other things, assess compliance with our vendor code of conduct. Nonetheless, the violation of any labor or other laws, or the divergence from ethical labor practices, by any of our suppliers or their U.S. and non-U.S. factories could damage our reputation, interrupt or disrupt shipment of products, result in a decrease in customer traffic to our stores and adversely affect our sales and net income.We have experienced considerable management turnover and our future success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to retain the current leadership team and their ability to execute a successful business strategy. Our business requires disciplined execution at all levels of our organization in order to timely deliver and display fashionable merchandise in appropriate quantities in our stores. This execution requires experienced and talented management. Over the past two years, we have experienced a number of changes in our leadership ranks, including the positions of president and chief executive officer, chief financial officer and lead merchants. We currently have a leadership team with a great deal of experience in apparel retailing. If we were to lose the benefit of this experience, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on the current leadership team's ability to successfully manage the business, to lead and motivate our employees, and to work effectively together. If this leadership team is not successful in that regard, our ability to execute our business strategy and tactical initiatives could be adversely affected. Future turnover within senior management could adversely impact the execution of our business strategies and our results of operations, and it may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult.13Table of ContentsOur sales and results of operations could deteriorate if we fail to attract, develop and retain qualified employees. We believe that our success will depend considerably on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. There is a high level of competition for personnel in the retail industry. Like most retailers, we experience significant employee turnover rates, particularly among store sales associates and store managers. We therefore must continually attract, hire and train new personnel to meet our staffing needs. We constantly compete for qualified personnel with companies in our industry and in other industries and qualified individuals may be in short supply in some geographic areas. A significant increase in the turnover rate among our sales associates and managers would increase our recruiting and training costs and could decrease our operating efficiency and productivity. If we are unable to retain our current employees or attract, train, assimilate and retain other skilled personnel in the future, we may not be able to service our customers as effectively, which could impair our ability to increase sales and could otherwise harm our business.We are heavily dependent on our information technology systems and our ability to maintain and upgrade these systems from time-to-time. The efficient operation of our business is heavily dependent on our information technology systems (“IT systems”). In particular, we rely on point-of-sale terminals, which provide information to our host analysis systems used to track sales and inventory. The host systems help integrate our design, third party manufacturing, distribution and financial functions, and we integrated with our reporting service to provide daily financial and sales information. Although our applications and data are backed up and securely stored off-site, our main data center is located at our headquarters in Plymouth, Minnesota. The data center and our operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from:•fire, flood and other natural disasters;•power loss, computer systems failures, Internet and telecommunications or data network failure, operator negligence, improper operation by or supervision of employees, physical and electronic loss of data or security breaches, IT systems appropriation and similar events; and•computer viruses or software bugs.Any disruption in the operation of our IT systems, the loss of employees knowledgeable about such systems or our failure to continue to effectively modify such systems could interrupt our operations or interfere with our ability to sell goods in-store, which could result in reduced net sales and affect our operations and financial performance. In addition, any interruption in the operation of our Internet websites could cause us to lose sales due to the inability of customers to purchase merchandise through our websites during such interruption. From time-to-time, we improve and upgrade our IT systems and the functionality of our Internet websites. The cost of any such system upgrades or enhancements can be significant. If we are unable to maintain and upgrade our systems or Internet websites, or to integrate new and updated systems or changes to our Internet websites in an efficient and timely manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.We are subject to cyber security risks and may incur additional expenses in order to mitigate such risks or in response to a security breach. In addition, incidents in which we fail to protect our customers' information against security breaches could result in monetary damages against us and could otherwise damage our reputation, harm our businesses and adversely impact our results of operations.Our business, and that of our third party service providers, employ systems and websites that allow for the secure storage and/or transmission of proprietary or confidential information by us and these third party service providers regarding our customers, employees, job applicants and others, including credit card information and personal identification information. Despite these preventative efforts, security and/or privacy breaches could expose us and our third party service providers to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation and potential liability. Attacks may be targeted at us or our customers. Actual or anticipated attacks may cause us to incur significant additional expense, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third party experts and consultants. Any compromise or breach of our security may result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, considerable additional expense, and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. Experienced computer programmers and hackers, or even internal users, may be able to penetrate, create systems disruptions or cause shutdowns of our information systems or that of third party companies with which we have contracted to provide payment processing services. As a result, we could incur significant expenses addressing problems created by these breaches. In addition, any compromise of customer information could subject us to customer or government litigation and harm our reputation, which could adversely affect our business and growth.14Table of ContentsWe collect and store customer information for marketing purposes. In addition, a number of states have adopted breach of data security statutes or regulations that require notification to consumers if the security of their personal information is breached. Any limitations imposed on the use of such customer information, whether imposed by federal or state governments or business partners, could have an adverse effect on our future marketing activities. Governmental focus on data security may lead to additional legislative action, and the increased emphasis on information security may lead customers to request that we take additional measures to enhance security. As a result, we may have to modify our business with the goal of further improving data security, which would result in increased expenses and operating complexity.We depend on a single facility to conduct our operations and distribution of merchandise and our business would suffer a material adverse effect if this facility were shut down or its operations severely disrupted. Our corporate headquarters and our only distribution facility are located in one facility in Plymouth, Minnesota. Our distribution facility supplies merchandise to our retail stores and our third party e-commerce provider. Any serious disruption to our distribution facility or a shut down for any reason, could delay shipments to stores and result in inventory shortages which could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, much of our computer equipment and all of our senior management, including critical resources dedicated to merchandising, finance and administrative functions, are located at our corporate headquarters. In the event of a disaster or other calamity impacting our corporate operations, our management and staff would have to find and operate out of other suitable locations. We have little experience operating essential functions away from our main corporate offices and are uncertain what effect operating such satellite facilities might have on business, personnel and results of operations. Although we maintain business interruption and property insurance, management cannot be assured that our insurance coverage will be sufficient or that any insurance proceeds will be timely paid to us if our distribution center or corporate offices were shut down for any unplanned reason.The sufficiency and availability of our sources of liquidity may be affected by a variety of factors. The sufficiency and availability of our sources of liquidity may be affected by a variety of factors, including, without limitation: (i) the level of our operating cash flows, which are impacted by consumer acceptance of our merchandise, general economic conditions and the level of consumer discretionary spending; and (ii) our ability to maintain borrowing availability and to comply with applicable covenants contained in our Credit Facility. Our ability to become profitable and to generate positive cash flows is dependent upon many factors, including improvement in economic conditions and consumer spending and our ability to execute successfully our financial plan and strategic initiatives. There can be no assurance that our cash flows from operations will be sufficient at all times to support our Company without additional financing or credit availability.Should we be unable in the future to borrow under the Credit Facility, it is possible, depending on the cause of our inability to borrow, that we may not have sufficient cash resources for our operations. If that were to occur, our liquidity would be significantly impaired, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our new Credit Facility contains borrowing base restrictions that may limit our ability to access it. It also imposes financial and operating restrictions. The actual amount of credit that is available from time-to-time under our new Credit Facility is limited to a borrowing base amount that is determined according to the value of eligible credit card receivables and inventory, as reduced by certain reserve amounts per the terms of the Credit Facility. Although we currently do not have any borrowings under this facility, we use it periodically for letters of credit, which reduces the amount available for borrowings. Consequently, it is possible that, should we need to access our Credit Facility, it may not be available in full. Moreover, under our Credit Facility, we are subject to various covenants and requirements that limit or restrict our ability to engage in certain financial or operational transactions. Should we be unable to comply with certain of the covenants and requirements in the Credit Facility, we may be unable to borrow under our Credit Facility.Access to additional financing from the capital markets may be limited. Primarily as a result of our operating losses during the last two fiscal years, our cash, cash equivalents and short and long-term investments have decreased from $105.6 million at February 26, 2011, to $61.7 million at January 28, 2012, to $40.7 million at February 2, 2013. While we have availability under our Credit Facility to bolster our liquidity, we may need additional capital 15Table of Contentsto fund our operations, particularly if our operating results and cash flows from operating activities were to worsen or if the Credit Facility were unavailable. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securities in order to improve our liquidity would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. If we borrow under our Credit Facility or incur other debt, our expenses will increase and we could be subject to additional covenants that may restrict our operating flexibility. Newly issued securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior or otherwise superior to those of our common stock. There is no assurance that equity or debt financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us. Without sufficient liquidity, we will be more vulnerable to future downturns in our business or the general economy.Our stock price has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate widely. The market price for our common stock has experienced, and could continue to experience in the future, substantial volatility as a result of many factors. Failure to meet market expectations would likely result in a decline in the market value of our stock. In addition, stock markets generally have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and market prices for the stock of many companies, including ours, have experienced wide price fluctuations disproportionate to, or not necessarily related to, their operating performance.The current price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices. Fluctuations in the market price of our common stock in the future may have a negative impact on our liquidity and access to capital, and may expose us to stockholder litigation, which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements could damage our reputation, financial condition and market price of our stock. We are subject to numerous regulations and laws that govern our operations, marketing and sale of our merchandise, corporate structure, and financial controls and disclosures. Our policies, procedures and internal controls are designed to comply with those applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), as well as applicable employment and consumer protection laws. Any changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations or the enactment of any new legislation may increase the complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations may damage our reputation, impact our financial condition and reduce the market price of our stock.We may be subject to adverse outcomes in current or future litigation matters. We are involved from time-to-time in litigation and other claims against our business. There are also other types of claims that could be asserted against us based on litigation that has been asserted against others, particularly in the retail industry. These matters typically arise in the ordinary course of business but, in some cases, could also raise complex factual and legal issues requiring significant management time and, if determined adversely to the Company, could subject the Company to material liabilities. In recent years, there has been increasing activity by companies which have acquired intellectual property rights but do not practice those rights (sometimes referred to as “patent trolls”) to engage in very broad licensing programs aimed at a large number of companies in a wide variety of businesses, or at retail companies specifically. These efforts typically involve proposing licenses in exchange for a payment of money and may also include the threat or actual initiation of litigation for that purpose. Any such litigation can be costly to defend, even if unsubstantiated or invalid. There is one such matter pending against us as to which our third party e-commerce provider has agreed to defend and indemnify us, subject to the terms of our e-commerce agreement with them. We also receive from time-to-time communications from patent trolls relating to proposed licenses. It is not possible to predict the impact, if any, of such claims on our business and operations.Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover. We are entitled to certain other protective provisions under Delaware law. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of the Company, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. We also have adopted a stockholder rights plan, commonly known as a “poison pill”, that entitles our stockholders to acquire additional shares of us, or a potential acquirer of us, at a substantial discount to their market value in the event of an attempted takeover. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable by, among other things:16Table of Contents•prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors;•authorizing the Board to designate and issue “blank check” preferred stock;•limiting persons who can call special meetings of the Board of Directors or stockholders;•prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and•establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at a stockholders meeting.Changes in accounting rules and regulations may adversely affect our results of operations. Changes to existing accounting rules or regulations may impact our future results of operations. Other new accounting rules or regulations and varying interpretations of existing accounting rules and regulations may occur in the future. For instance, accounting regulatory authorities have indicated that they may begin to require lessees to capitalize operating leases in their financial statements in the next few years. If implemented, such a change would require us to record a significant amount of lease-related assets and liabilities on our balance sheet and make other changes to the recording and classification of lease-related expenses on our statements of operations and cash flow. This and other future changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.We could have failures in our system of internal controls causing us to inaccurately report our financial results or to fail to prevent fraud.We maintain a documented system of internal controls which is reviewed and monitored by management, who meet regularly with our Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. We believe we have a well-designed system to maintain adequate internal controls over the business. We cannot assure you that there will not be any control deficiencies in the future. Should we become aware of any control deficiencies, we would report them to the Audit Committee and, if significant, recommend prompt remediation.We devote significant resources to document, test, monitor and improve our internal controls and will continue to do so; however, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that our controls are adequate in the future or that adequate controls will be effective in preventing fraud. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Any failures in the effectiveness of our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results or cause us to fail to meet reporting obligations.Our business could suffer as a result of a manufacturer's inability to produce goods for us on time and to our specifications. Our business could suffer if parties with whom the Company does business may be subject to insolvency risks or may otherwise become unable or unwilling to perform their obligations to the Company.We depend upon independent third parties, both domestic and foreign, for the manufacture of all of the goods that we sell. The inability of a manufacturer to ship orders in a timely manner or to meet our standards could have a material adverse impact on our business.We are party to contracts, transactions and business relationships with various third parties, including vendors, suppliers, service providers and lenders, pursuant to which such third parties have performance, payment and other obligations to us. If any of these third parties were to become subject to bankruptcy, receivership or similar proceedings, the rights and benefits of us in relation to these contracts, transactions and business relationships with such third parties could be terminated, modified in a manner adverse to us, or otherwise impaired. We cannot make any assurance that it would be able to arrange alternate or replacement contracts, transactions or business relationships on terms as favorable as our existing contracts, transactions or business relationships, if at all. Any inability on our part to do so could negatively affect our cash flows, financial condition and business.Changes in the health care regulatory environment could cause us to incur additional expense, and our failure to comply with related legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business.In 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law in the United States. This legislation expands health care coverage to many uninsured individuals and expands coverage to those already insured. The changes required by this legislation could cause us to incur additional health care and other costs, but we do not expect any material short-term impact on our financial results as a result of the legislation. The costs and other effects of other new, related legal requirements cannot be determined with certainty. For example, new legislation or regulations may result in increased costs directly, for our compliance, or indirectly, to the extent such 17Table of Contentsrequirements increase prices of goods and services because of increased compliance costs or reduced availability of raw materials.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no matters which are required to be reported under Item 1B.