ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We make forward-looking statements in some of our filings with the SEC and in other oral or written communications, such as our quarterly investor conference calls and earnings announcements. Our business is subject to a variety of risks. In addition to the other information in this Report, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements we may make. Set forth below are the more significant risk factors which could cause our future results to differ, in some cases, materially from what we anticipate and from those forward-looking statements. Please also see the “Forward-Looking Statements” in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, which is incorporated into this Item 1A by reference. 5 Table of Contents Economic conditions may cause a decline in business and consumer spending which could adversely affect our financial performance. Our financial performance is impacted by general economic conditions and their effect on consumer confidence and consumer spending, which may continue to be depressed for the foreseeable future. Some of the factors impacting discretionary consumer spending include general economic conditions, wages and unemployment, consumer debt, residential real estate and mortgage markets, taxation, fuel and energy prices, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors. The current economic conditions may continue to negatively affect consumer purchases of our merchandise and adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity and potential for growth. In addition, economic conditions could negatively impact the Company’s retail landlords and their ability to maintain their shopping centers in a first-class condition and otherwise perform their obligations, which in turn could negatively impact our sales. Although the recent global financial crisis eased somewhat in the United States during fiscal 2011 from the levels reached during fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010, world-wide economic conditions remain challenging and consumer spending remains depressed as compared to pre-crisis levels. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods where disposable income is adversely affected. The state of the U.S. economy may continue to affect consumer purchases of our merchandise and adversely impact our results of operations and our potential for growth. It is difficult to predict whether recent improvements in the economic, capital and credit markets will continue or whether such conditions will deteriorate, as well as the impact this might have on our business. All of our stores are located within the United States, making us highly susceptible to deteriorations in U.S. macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence. All of our stores are located within the United States, making our results highly dependent on U.S. consumer confidence and the health of the U.S. economy. In addition, a significant portion of our total sales is derived from stores located in nine states: Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, New York, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, resulting in further dependence on local economic conditions in these states. Deterioration in macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence could negatively impact our business in many ways. It is difficult to predict how long the current economic conditions will continue and what long-term impact, if any, they will have on our business. In the short-term, however, these conditions have negatively affected our results of operations. Our stock price may be volatile due to many factors affecting our sales and earnings. A variety of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our comparable sales results and profit margins. These factors include fashion trends and client preferences, changes in our merchandise mix, competition, economic conditions, weather, effective inventory management and new store openings. There is no assurance that we will achieve positive levels of sales and earnings growth, and any decline in our performance could have an adverse affect on the market price of our common stock. Our stock price has experienced, and could continue to experience in the future, substantial volatility as a result of many factors, including global economic conditions, broad market fluctuations, our operating performance and public perception of the prospects for the women’s apparel industry. Failure to meet market expectations, particularly with respect to comparable sales, net revenue, operating margins and earnings per share, would likely result in a decline in the market value of our stock. If we are unable to anticipate or react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner, our sales, merchandise margins and operating income could decline. Our success largely depends on our ability to consistently gauge and respond on a timely basis to fashion trends and provide a balanced assortment of merchandise that satisfies changing fashion tastes and customer demands that translates into appropriate, saleable product offerings for each of our two brands. Customer tastes and fashion trends change rapidly. Any missteps may affect merchandise desirability and inventory levels. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately in a timely manner to changes in fashion trends could lead to lower sales, missed opportunities and excess inventories. This in turn could lead to more frequent and larger markdowns, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. Merchandise missteps could also negatively impact our image with our customers and result in diminished brand loyalty. 6 Table of Contents Our ability to manage inventory levels and our ability to predict or respond to customer demand may impact our results. The long lead times required for a substantial portion of our merchandise makes customer demand difficult to predict and responding to changes quickly a challenge. Though we have the ability to source certain product categories with shorter lead times, we enter into contracts for a substantial portion of our merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season. Our financial condition could be adversely affected if we are unable to manage inventory levels and respond to short-term shifts in customer demand patterns. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in excessive markdowns and, therefore, lower than planned margins. On the other hand, if we underestimate demand for our merchandise we may experience inventory shortages resulting in missed sales and lost revenues. Either of these events could harm our operating results and brand image. In addition, our margins may be impacted by changes in our merchandise mix and a shift toward merchandise with lower selling prices. These changes could have an adverse affect on our results of operations. The absence of, or a further reduction in, customer traffic to our stores could significantly reduce our sales and leave us with unsold inventory. A significant portion of our current stores are located in shopping malls and other retail centers. Sales at these stores are derived in considerable part from the volume of traffic generated in those malls or retail centers, which, if reduced, in turn can result in lower traffic at our stores. Sales volume has been adversely affected by the reduction in traffic both generally and at our stores due to economic conditions, the closing of anchor department stores and competition from other brick and mortar retailers, internet retailers and other locations where we do not have stores, and the closing of other stores in the malls or retail centers in which our stores are located. If the volume of consumer traffic at malls or retail centers declines, this could limit the number of customers visiting many of our stores. This could result in lower sales and leave us with excess inventory. In such circumstances, we may have to respond by increasing markdowns or initiating marketing promotions to reduce excess inventory, which could adversely impact our merchandise margins and operating income. We operate in a highly competitive retail industry. The size and resources of some of our competitors may allow them to compete more effectively than we can, which could result in a loss of market share. The women’s specialty retail apparel business is highly competitive. Increased competition could result in price reductions, increased marketing expenditures and loss of market share, all of which could have an adverse affect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. We believe we compete primarily with women’s apparel retailers and department stores, catalog retailers and internet businesses that sell women’s apparel. We believe that the principal bases upon which we compete for sales are the quality, design and price of our merchandise, the quality of our customer service, our visual merchandise presentation and store locations. Many of our competitors are companies with greater financial, marketing and other resources available to them. They may be able to adapt to changes in customer preferences more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products, generate greater national brand recognition or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. In addition, an increased level of promotions or discounted sales by our competitors may adversely affect response rates to our merchandise or to our own level of promotions or sales. As a result, we may lose market share or experience a reduction in store traffic, which could reduce our revenues, merchandise margins and operating income. In addition to competing for sales, we compete for favorable store locations, lease terms and qualified associates. Increased competition in these areas may result in higher costs, which could reduce our sales and margins and adversely affect our results of operations. Fluctuations in our level of comparable store sales could adversely affect our earnings growth. Our results of operations for our individual stores have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to fluctuate in the future. Since the beginning of fiscal year 2007 through fiscal year 2011, our quarterly comparable store sales have ranged from an increase of 9% to a decrease of 24%. We cannot ensure that we will be able to achieve a high level of comparable store sales in the future. A variety of factors has affected, and will continue to affect, our comparable stores sales and operating results, including: · fashion trends and customer preferences; · changes in our merchandise mix; · mall or retail center traffic; 7 Table of Contents · calendar shifts of certain holiday periods; · the effectiveness of our inventory management; · the timing of promotional events; · weather conditions; · changes in general economic conditions and consumer spending patterns; and · actions of competitors or anchor tenants in retail centers or malls. There is no assurance that we will achieve positive levels of comparable store sales or earnings growth in the future, and any declines in our comparable stores sales or financial performance could have an adverse affect on the market price of our common stock, as well as result in further impairment of our long-lived (i.e., store) assets. Our sales, operating income and inventory levels fluctuate on a seasonal basis and decreases in sales or margins during our peak seasons could have a disproportionate affect on our overall financial condition and results of operations. Our business experiences seasonal fluctuations in net sales and operating income, with a significant portion of our operating income typically realized during the first and third fiscal quarters (spring and fall selling seasons). Any decrease in sales or margins particularly during these periods could have a disproportionate affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Seasonal fluctuations also affect our inventory levels. We must carry a significant amount of inventory, especially before the spring and fall selling seasons. If we are not successful in selling our inventory, we may have to write down the value of our inventory or sell it at significantly reduced prices, which could have an adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have experienced significant management turnover and our future success will depend to a significant extent on the current management team’s ability to implement a successful business strategy. In the past year, we have experienced changes in our president and chief executive officer, our chief financial officer and our top merchandising officer. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on the current management team’s ability to develop and implement a successful business strategy, to lead and motivate our employees, and to work effectively together and with our Board of Directors. If this management team is not successful in that regard, our ability to execute our business strategy and tactical initiatives could be adversely affected. Future turnover within senior management could adversely impact the execution of our business strategies, our stock price, our results of operations and it may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. Our results of operations could deteriorate if we fail to attract, develop and retain qualified employees. Our success depends to a significant extent on both the continued services of our current executive and management team, as well as our ability to attract, hire, motivate and retain qualified employees, including store personnel in the future. Competition for experienced managers in the retail industry is considerable, and our operations could be adversely affected if we cannot retain our experienced managers or if we fail to attract additional qualified individuals. Our performance also depends in large part on the talents and contributions of engaged and skilled associates in all areas of our organization. If we are unable to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain talented individuals, we may be unable to compete effectively and our business could be adversely impacted. The turnover rate in the retail industry’s store operations is high, and qualified individuals of the requisite caliber and number needed to fill open positions may be in short supply in some geographic areas. Significant increases in employee turnover rates could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Effective leadership and strategic guidance of our executives and key members of our merchandise creative team is critical to developing successful merchandise offerings that reinforce our brand identity. The loss, for any reason, of the services of any of these key individuals could delay or adversely affect the implementation of our strategic initiatives or style and quality of the merchandise we offer. 8 Table of Contents Extreme and/or unseasonable weather conditions could have a disproportionately large affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and we could be forced to mark down inventory. Extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our stores are located could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, heavy snowfall or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period might make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores. Our business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could render a portion of our inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions in the affected areas of the United States. Any such prolonged unseasonable weather conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to manage selling, general and administrative expenses and capital expenditures may impact our operating results. In order to maintain or improve our operating margins, we need to successfully manage our operating costs. Our inability to successfully manage labor costs, occupancy costs or other operating costs, or our inability to take advantage of opportunities to reduce operating costs or to manage capital expenditures, could adversely affect our operating margins and our results of operations. We are highly dependent on a few suppliers who primarily manufacture overseas. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend on independent third parties to manufacture our merchandise. We cannot be certain that we will not experience operational difficulties with our manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with merchandise specifications, insufficient quality controls and failure to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. In addition, we source our merchandise from a select group of manufacturers and we continue to strive to strengthen our relationships with those vendors. In fiscal 2011, approximately 12% of our merchandise was directly imported from foreign factories and our ten largest suppliers accounted for approximately 77% of the merchandise we purchased. While this strategy has benefits, it also has risks. If one or more of our key vendors were to cease working with us, the flow of merchandise to our stores could be impacted, which could have an adverse affect on our sales and results of operations. In addition, worldwide economic conditions continue to impact businesses around the world, and the impact of those conditions on our major suppliers cannot be predicted. Our suppliers may be unable to obtain adequate credit or access liquidity to finance their operations. A manufacturer’s failure to ship merchandise to us on a timely basis or to meet our product safety and quality standards could cause supply shortages, resulting in lost revenues and operating margins and this could adversely affect our financial performance. Our reliance on foreign sources of production poses various risks. Substantially all of our directly imported merchandise is manufactured in Asia. The majority of these goods are produced in China, Indonesia and India. An adverse change in the status of our relationship with our largest suppliers or any event causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing or imports from Asia or elsewhere, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, could harm our operations. We have no long-term merchandise supply contracts, and we compete with other companies for production facilities. Because we purchase a significant portion of our merchandise from overseas, we are subject to the various risks of doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, such as: · significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to port security considerations; · imposition of duties, taxes or other charges on imports; · imposition of new legislation relating to import quotas or other restrictions that may limit the quantity of our merchandise that may be imported into the United States from countries or regions where we do business; 9 Table of Contents · imposition of anti-dumping or countervailing duties in response to an investigation as to whether a particular product being sold in the United States at less than fair value may cause (or threaten to cause) material injury to the relevant domestic industry; · financial or political instability in any of the countries in which our merchandise is manufactured; · fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies or restrictions on the transfer of funds; · potential recalls or cancellations of orders for any merchandise that does not meet our quality standards; · disruption of imports by labor disputes and local business practices; · political or military conflict involving the United States, which could cause a delay in the transportation of the Company’s products and an increase in transportation costs; · heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods; · natural disasters, disease epidemics and health related concerns, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; and · the migration and development of manufacturers, which can affect where our products are or will be produced. Any of the foregoing factors, or a combination of them, could have an adverse affect on our business. We cannot predict whether any of the foreign countries in which our merchandise is manufactured, or in which our merchandise may be manufactured in the future, will be subject to import restrictions by the U.S. government. Any sudden disruption of manufacturing or imposition of trade restrictions, such as increased tariffs or more restrictive quotas on apparel or other items we sell, could affect the import of such merchandise and could increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Our raw material and sourcing costs may increase, which could negatively impact our profitability. The raw materials, in particular cotton and petroleum-based synthetics, used to manufacture our merchandise are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by high demand for fabrics, labor conditions, transportation or freight costs, currency fluctuations, weather conditions, supply conditions, government regulations, the economic climate and other unpredictable factors. We have taken steps to mitigate sourcing pressures from rising raw material costs by making advance commitments on key core fabrics, leveraging our strong vendor relationships and using country sourcing flexibility. Despite these measures, an increase in the demand for, or the price of, and/or a decrease in the availability of the raw materials used to manufacture our merchandise could have an adverse affect on our cost of sales or our ability to meet our customers’ needs. Increases in labor costs, especially in China, as well as a shortage of labor in certain areas of China, may also impact our sourcing costs. We may not be able to pass all or a portion of such higher sourcing costs on to our customers, which could negatively impact our profitability. Our transportation and labor costs are subject to price volatility, which could result in increased costs. Our transportation and labor costs are subject to price volatility caused by the price of oil, supply of labor, governmental regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. We may not be able to pass all or a material portion of any higher transportation or labor costs on to our customers, which could negatively impact our profitability. 10 Table of Contents Our inability to maintain the value of our brands and our trademarks may adversely affect our business and financial performance. The Christopher & Banks and C.J. Banks brand names are integral to our business, as well as to the implementation of our strategies for expanding our business. Maintaining, promoting, positioning and growing our brands will depend largely on the success of our design, merchandising and marketing efforts and on our ability to provide a consistent, high quality customer experience. Our business could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve these objectives for one or both of these brands. In addition, our public image and reputation could be tarnished by negative publicity. Any of these events could negatively impact sales. We also believe that our “christopher & banks” and “cj banks” trademarks are important to our success. Even though we register and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights, there is no assurance that our actions will protect us from the prior registration of trademarks by others or prevent others from infringing our trademarks and proprietary rights or seeking to block sales of our products as infringements of their trademarks and proprietary rights. If we cannot adequately protect our marks or prevent infringement of them, our business and financial performance could suffer. In addition, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property rights or in marks that are similar to ours, and we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In some cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar marks. Failure to protect our trademarks could adversely affect our business. The failure of our complex management information systems to operate continuously or as intended could adversely affect our sales and profitability and our reputation. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on a number of complex management information systems. In particular, we rely on our information systems to effectively manage product development, merchandising, sourcing, customer service, supply chain, finance and marketing systems, as well as our in-store point-of-sale systems. Our ability to maintain and upgrade our information systems is critical to the success of our business. The hardware and software to support our information systems may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Any disruptions to our information system infrastructure or loss of the right to use any of this hardware or software could affect our operations, which could negatively affect our business until corrected or until equivalent technology is identified, obtained or developed and integrated into our systems. In addition, the software underlying our operations can contain undetected errors. Upon detection, we may be forced to modify our operations until such problems are corrected and, in some cases, may need to implement enhancements to correct errors that we did not initially detect. Problems with the software underlying our operations could result in loss of revenue, unexpected expenses and capital costs, diversion of resources, loss of market share and damage to our reputation which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend significantly on a single operations and distribution facility. All of our administrative and distribution operations are housed in a single facility. A significant interruption in the operation of this facility due to natural disasters, accidents or other events could reduce our ability to receive and provide merchandise to our stores, as well as reduce our ability to administer and oversee our business, which could reduce our sales and results of operations. The success of our stores depends on their timely receipt of merchandise from our distribution center. A single independent third party transportation company delivers the vast majority of our merchandise to our stores and to our third party e-commerce provider. Disruptions in the delivery of merchandise or work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes by employees of this third party could delay the timely receipt of merchandise, which could result in lost sales, a loss of loyalty to our brands and the late receipt of inventory when it is no longer seasonally appropriate. Timely receipt of merchandise by our stores or our third party e-commerce provider may also be affected by factors such as inclement weather, natural disasters, accidents, system failures and acts of terrorism or other unforeseen causes. This could result in lost sales, lower profits, loss of customers or loyalty to our brands and excess inventory. If our use of our facility or distribution center were interrupted, it would disrupt business operations and could adversely affect our operations and our earnings. There are risks associated with our e-commerce business. We sell merchandise over the internet through our websites, www.christopherandbanks.com and www.cjbanks.com. Our e-commerce operations are subject to numerous risks, including: · the successful implementation of new systems and internet platforms; · reliance on a single third party fulfillment center; 11 Table of Contents · rapid technological change; · reliance on third party computer hardware and software; · diversion of sales from our stores; · liability for online content; · violations of state or federal privacy laws, including those relating to online privacy; · credit card fraud; · the failure of the computer systems that operate our websites and their related support systems, including the threat of computer viruses; · telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions; and · timely delivery of our merchandise to our customers by third parties. If consumer confidence in making purchases over the internet declines as a result of privacy or other concerns, our e-commerce sales may be adversely effected. We also may be required to incur increased costs to address or remedy any system failures or security breaches or any actual or perceived consumer privacy concerns. There also can be no assurance that our e-commerce operations will meet our sales and profitability plans and the failure to do so could negatively impact our revenues and earnings. If third parties who manage some aspects of our business do not adequately perform their functions, we might experience disruptions in our business, resulting in decreased profits or losses and damage to our reputation. We use third parties in various aspects of our business or to support our operations. We have a long-term contract with a third party to manage much of our e-commerce operations, including order management, order fulfillment, customer care, and channel management services. We rely on third parties to inspect the factories where our products are made for compliance with our vendor code of conduct and labor standards. We may rely on a third party for the implementation and/or management of certain aspects of our information technology infrastructure. We also rely on third parties to transport merchandise and deliver it to our distribution center, as well as to ship merchandise to our stores and to our third party e-commerce fulfillment center. Failure by any of these third parties to perform these functions effectively and properly could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our profitability and reputation. Effects of war, terrorism or other catastrophes could adversely impact our business or operations. Threats of terrorist attacks or actual terrorist events in the United States or worldwide could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, disrupt the production, shipment or receipt of our merchandise or lead to lower customer traffic at malls or retail centers. Natural disasters, pandemics or other significant health issues could also impact our ability to open and run our stores in affected areas or the manufacturing operations of our vendors. Lower customer traffic due to security concerns, war or the threat of war, natural disasters, pandemics or other health concerns, and the decreased sales that would likely result, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements could damage our reputation, financial condition and market price of our stock. Our policies, procedures and internal controls are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange, as well as applicable employment laws. Any changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations or the enactment of any new legislation, in response to current economic conditions or otherwise, may increase the complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations may damage our reputation, impact our financial condition or reduce the market price of our stock. 12 Table of Contents Our business could suffer if one of the manufacturers of the goods that we sell fails to follow acceptable labor practices. We expect that manufacturers of the goods that we sell to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations and comply with our social compliance program. Our social compliance program promotes ethical business practices and our staff and the staff of our third party inspection service company periodically visit or inspect the operations of our independent manufacturers to assess compliance with our social compliance program. However, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor or business practices. The violation of labor or other laws by an independent manufacturer used by us, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer’s labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States, could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt the shipment of products to us, damage our reputation or result in cancelled contracts or orders. Any of these events could have an adverse affect on our revenues and consequently our results of operations. Our marketing efforts rely upon the effective use of customer information. Restrictions on the availability or use of customer information or unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential information could adversely affect our marketing programs or expose us to litigation, which could disrupt our operations and harm our business. As part of our normal course of business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential customer information. Any limitations imposed on the use of such consumer data, whether imposed by federal or state governments or business partners, could have an adverse affect on our future marketing activities. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of our third party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or similar events. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, whether by us or our vendors, could severely damage our reputation, expose us to risks of litigation and liability, disrupt our operations and harm our business. Government mandated healthcare requirements could adversely affect our profits. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “Act”) and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (the “Reconciliation Act”) were signed into law. The Act, as modified by the Reconciliation Act, includes a large number of health care provisions to take effect over four years. The costs of these provisions are expected to be funded by a variety of taxes and fees. Some of the taxes and fees, as well as certain health care changes required by these provisions, are expected to result, directly or indirectly, in increased health care costs for us. While we are still evaluating the impact of the Act, this legislation, as well as any future changes in healthcare legislation, could increase healthcare expenses for us and have an adverse affect on our results of operations. Our ability to successfully manage store growth and optimize the productivity and profitability of our store portfolio may impact our financial performance. Our ability to return to profitability depends, in part, on our ability to successfully open and operate new stores, including new store concepts, and to optimize the performance of our current stores, including by closing under-performing stores. Due to the deterioration in the macroeconomic environment in fiscal year 2009 and the continued economic uncertainty, we reduced our capital expenditures for fiscal years 2010 and 2011. As the economy recovers, we intend to open more new stores, while relocating and remodeling a portion of our existing store base each year. Accomplishing our store opening goals depends upon a number of factors, including locating suitable sites and negotiating favorable lease terms. We must also be able to effectively renew and renegotiate lease terms for existing stores. Improving the profitability of our stores and optimizing store productivity will also depend on customer acceptance of our dual store and outlet store concepts and our effectively executing the planned store growth for fiscal 2012. Hiring and training qualified associates, particularly at the store management level, and maintaining overall good relations with our associates, is also important to our store operations. There is no assurance that we will achieve our store expansion goals, manage our potential growth effectively or operate our stores profitably. 13 Table of Contents We may be subject to adverse outcomes in current or future litigation matters. We are involved from time-to-time in litigation and other claims against our business. The types of claims that could be asserted against us based on litigation that has been asserted against others, particularly in the retail industry, includes commercial, intellectual property infringement (as discussed below), customer and employment claims, including class action lawsuits claiming that we have violated federal or state laws. These matters typically arise in the ordinary course of business but in some cases could also raise complex factual and legal issues requiring significant management time and, if determined adversely to the Company, could subject the Company to material liabilities. We believe that our current litigation matters will not have a material adverse affect on the results of our operations or financial condition. However, our assessment of current litigation could change in light of the discovery of facts with respect to legal actions pending against us not presently known to us or determinations by judges, juries or other finders of fact which do not accord with our evaluation of the possible liability or outcome of such litigation. In recent years there has been increasing activity by companies which have acquired intellectual property rights but do not practice those rights (sometimes referred to as “patent trolls”) to engage in very broad licensing programs aimed at a large number of companies in a wide variety of businesses or at retail companies specifically. These efforts typically involve proposing licenses in exchange for a substantial sum of money and may also include the threat or actual initiation of litigation for that purpose. Any such litigation can be quite costly to defend, even if unsubstantiated or invalid. There is one such matter pending against us which our third party e-commerce provider has agreed to defend and indemnify us, subject to the terms of our e-commerce agreement with them. We also receive from time-to-time communications from patent trolls relating to proposed licenses. It is not possible to predict the impact, if any, of such claims on our business and operations. We may not successfully implement our fiscal 2012 initiatives. In conjunction with recent changes in senior management, the Company has begun to undertake a series of initiatives to return the Company to profitability and growth, in particular transforming our merchandise strategy to better align with our customers’ fashion preferences. While progress on these initiatives has been made, our ability to continue to make progress depends upon a number of factors which could result in unexpected costs, delays or failure to meet our internal expectations. If we are unable to improve our financial performance, additional measures and cost controls may need to be implemented and our results of operations could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no matters which are required to be reported under Item 1B. 