ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward Looking Information and Risk Information contained in this Form 10-K contains certain “forward-looking statements” which reflect the current view of the Company with respect to future events and financial performance. Wherever used, terminology such as “may”, “will”, “expect”, “intend”, “plan”, “anticipate”, “estimate” or “continue”, or the negative thereof, or other variations thereon or comparable terminology reflect such forward-looking statements. There are certain important factors that could cause results to differ materially from those anticipated by some of these forward-looking statements. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainty. The factors, among others, that could cause actual results to differ materially include: changes in general economic conditions, including recessionary effects which may affect consumers’ spending and debt levels; the Company’s ability to execute its business plan including the successful expansion of its Christopher & Banks, C.J. Banks and Acorn concepts; the Company’s ability to open new stores on favorable terms and the timing of such store openings; the availability of quality store sites; the acceptance of the Company’s merchandising strategies by its target customers; the ability of the Company to anticipate fashion trends and consumer preferences; the loss of one or more of the Company’s key executives; the ability to hire and train qualified managerial employees and address management succession; continuity of a relationship with or purchases from major vendors, particularly those from whom the Company imports merchandise; increases in the cost of merchandise; timeliness of vendor production and deliveries; competitive pressures on sales and pricing; increases in other costs which cannot be recovered through improved pricing of merchandise; and the adverse effect of weather conditions from time to time on consumers’ ability or desire to purchase new clothing. Since the Company relies heavily on sourcing from foreign vendors, there are risks and uncertainties including transportation delays related to ocean, air and ground shipments, political instability, work stoppages, changes in import and export controls including quota restrictions and the expiration thereof. The Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this Form 10-K. 5 Certain Additional Risk Factors: Investors in the Company should consider the following risk factors as well as the other information contained herein. The Company’s efforts to select optimal retail store locations do not assure that its stores will succeed. The success of individual retail stores will depend to a great extent on locating them in desirable shopping venues in markets where the Company’s target customers shop. The success of individual stores may depend on the success of the shopping malls or lifestyle centers in which they are located. In addition, the demographic and other marketing data the Company relies on in determining the location of its stores cannot predict future consumer preferences and buying trends with complete accuracy. As a result, retail stores the Company opens may not be profitable or may be less successful than anticipated. The ability of the Company to effectively manage its growth is subject to factors beyond its control. The Company’s continued growth depends on its ability to open and operate stores successfully and to manage the Company’s planned expansion. During fiscal 2008, the Company plans to open approximately 70 new stores, including approximately 25 Christopher & Banks stores, 40 C.J. Banks stores, and five Acorn stores. The Company’s planned expansion is dependent upon a number of factors, including locating suitable store sites, negotiating favorable lease terms, sourcing sufficient levels of inventory, hiring and training qualified management and other employees and integrating new stores into its existing operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will achieve its planned expansion or that such expansion will be profitable or that the Company will be able to manage its growth effectively. The Company’s success is dependent on predicting and responding to changing customer preferences. The Company’s future success will depend on its ability to continually select the right merchandise assortment, maintain appropriate inventory levels and creatively present merchandise in a way that is appealing to its customers. Consumer preferences cannot be predicted with certainty, as they continually change and vary from region to region. On average, the Company begins the design process for its apparel six to seven months before merchandise is available to its customers and the Company typically begins to make purchase commitments four to five months in advance. These lead times make it difficult for the Company to respond quickly to changing consumer preferences and amplify the consequences of any misjudgments it might make in anticipating customer preferences. Consequently, if the Company misjudges its customers’ merchandise preferences or purchasing habits, its sales may decline significantly, and the Company may be required to mark down certain products to significantly lower prices to sell excess inventory, which would result in lower margins. Fluctuations in comparable store sales results may adversely affect the Company’s stock price. The Company’s comparable store sales results have fluctuated in the past on a monthly, quarterly and annual basis, and are expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. A variety of factors affect comparable store sales results, including changes in fashion trends, changes in the Company’s merchandise mix, calendar shifts of holiday periods, actions by competitors, weather conditions and general economic conditions. Past comparable store sales results are not an indicator of future results, and there can be no assurance that the Company’s comparable store sales results will not decrease in the future. The Company’s comparable store sales results are likely to have a significant effect on the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company competes with many retail stores and chains that are larger and have greater financial resources. The retail apparel industry is highly competitive. The Company competes with national and local department stores, specialty and discount store chains and independent retail stores that market similar lines of merchandise. Many competitors are significantly larger and have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources and enjoy greater national, regional and local name recognition than does the Company. Depth of selection in sizes, colors and styles of merchandise, merchandise procurement and pricing, ability to anticipate fashion trends and consumer preferences, inventory control, reputation, quality of merchandise, store design and location, brand recognition and customer service are all important factors in competing successfully in the retail industry. 6 The Company relies on a single distribution center. The Company relies on one distribution center, located in Plymouth, Minnesota, to receive and distribute merchandise to all of its stores. Any significant interruption in the operation of the distribution center due to natural disasters, accidents, system failures or other unforeseen causes could delay or impair the Company’s ability to distribute merchandise to its stores which could have a negative impact on sales. Changes in general economic conditions may adversely affect results. The Company’s business fluctuates according to changes in consumer preferences, which are dictated in part by fashion and season. In addition, certain economic conditions affect the level of consumer spending on merchandise offered by the Company, including, among others, unemployment levels, business conditions, interest rates and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Consumer preference and economic conditions may differ or change from time to time in each market in which the Company operates and negatively affect the Company’s net sales and profitability. The Company relies on foreign sources of production and so is exposed to possible delays, increased costs or reduced supplies. The Company directly imported approximately 75% of its total merchandise purchases in fiscal 2007. This reliance on sourcing from foreign countries may cause the Company to be exposed to certain risks. Import restrictions, including tariffs and quotas, and changes in such restrictions, could affect the import of apparel and might result in increased costs, delays in merchandise receipts or reduced supplies of apparel available to the Company and could possibly have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. The Company’s merchandise flow could also be adversely affected by political or financial instability in any of the countries where its merchandise is manufactured or by changes in the United States’ governmental policies toward such foreign countries. In addition, merchandise receipts could be delayed due to interruptions in air, ocean and ground shipments. The Company’s business will be adversely affected if it is unable to hire and retain talented personnel. The Company’s success and ability to properly manage its growth depends to a significant extent both upon the performance of its current executive and senior management team and its ability to attract, hire, motivate and retain additional qualified management personnel in the future. The Company’s inability to recruit and retain such additional personnel, or the loss of the services of any of its executive officers, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s stock price is volatile. The market price of the Company’s common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and there can be no assurance that the market price of the common stock will not continue to fluctuate significantly. Future announcements or management discussions concerning the Company or its competitors, sales and profitability results, quarterly variations in operating results or monthly comparable store net sales, changes in earnings estimates by analysts or changes in accounting policies, among other factors, could cause the market price of the common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, stock markets, in general, have experienced price and volume volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. 7 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no matters which are required to be reported under Item 1B. 