ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a variety of risks and thus an investment in our stock is also subject to risk. The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and in the forward-looking statements that are contained in this Transition Report on Form 10-K, as well as in some of our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). If any of the risks and uncertainties described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or currently believe are immaterial may also impact our business operations. All of our stores are located within the United States, making us highly susceptible to macroeconomic conditions in the United States and their impact on consumer demand for our apparel and accessories. General economic conditions, particularly those in the United States, may adversely affect our business. All of our stores are located within the United States, making our results highly dependent on U.S. macroeconomic conditions and their impact on consumer spending. In addition, a significant portion of our total sales is derived from stores located in nine states: Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, New York, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, resulting in further dependence on local economic conditions in these states. While the United States and many other international economies have improved since the global financial crisis in 2008, a prolonged economic downturn and slow recovery, including higher rates of unemployment, rising commodity prices and declining real estate market values, have had, and may continue to have, a material negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, economic conditions could negatively impact the Company’s retail landlords and their ability to maintain their shopping centers in a first-class condition and otherwise perform their obligations, which in turn could negatively impact our sales. Our ability to attract customers to our stores that are located in regional malls and other shopping centers depends heavily on the success of the malls and the centers in which our stores are located and any decrease in customer traffic could cause our net sales to be less than expected. The vast majority of our current stores are located in shopping malls and other retail centers. Sales at these stores are derived in considerable part from the volume of traffic generated in those malls or retail centers and surrounding areas. Our stores benefit from the ability of adjacent tenants to generate consumer traffic near our stores and the continuing popularity of the regional malls and outlet, lifestyle and power centers where our stores are located. Customer traffic and, in turn, our sales volume may be adversely affected by, among other things, economic downturns nationally or regionally, high fuel prices, increased competition, changes in consumer demographics or a closing of an anchor store. A reduction in customer traffic as a result of these and any other factors could result in lower sales and leave us with excess inventory. In such circumstances, we may have to respond by increasing markdowns or initiating marketing promotions to reduce excess inventory, which could adversely impact our merchandise margins and operating income. To take advantage of customer traffic and the shopping preferences of our customers, we need to maintain stores in desirable locations where competition for suitable store locations is strong. Our failure to reverse declining gross margins would have a material adverse impact on our business, profitability and liquidity. We experienced declines in our overall gross margin over the past several fiscal quarters. If we are unable to reverse this trend during fiscal 2012, it is possible that our working capital and cash flows from operating activities would not be sufficient to meet our operating requirements and we would be required to access some, if not all, of our credit facility and potentially require other sources of financing to fund our operations. 7 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive retail industry. The size and resources of some of our competitors may allow them to compete more effectively than we can, which could reduce our revenues, profits and market share. The women’s specialty retail apparel business is highly competitive. We believe we compete primarily with department stores, specialty stores, discount stores, mass merchandisers and Internet-based retailers that sell women’s apparel. Many of our competitors are companies with greater financial, marketing and other resources available to them and may offer a broader selection of merchandise than we do. They may be able to adapt to changes in customer preferences more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products, generate greater national brand recognition or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. In addition, the women’s specialty apparel industry has become more promotional over the past several years. As a result, we are likely to continue to experience pricing pressure, which in turn could lead to increased marketing expenditures and loss of market share. In addition to competing for sales, we compete for favorable store locations, lease terms and qualified associates. Increased competition in these areas may result in higher costs, which could reduce our sales and margins and adversely affect our results of operations. If we are unable to anticipate or react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner and offer a compelling product at an attractive price, our sales, gross margins and results of operations would be adversely impacted. Our success largely depends on our ability to consistently gauge and respond on a timely basis to fashion trends and provide a balanced assortment of merchandise that satisfies changing fashion tastes and customer demands. Forecasting consumer demand for our merchandise is difficult. In addition, our merchandise assortment differs from season to season and, at any given time, our assortment may not resonate with our customers. On average, we begin the design process for apparel six to eight months before the merchandise is available to customers, and we typically begin to make purchase commitments four to six months in advance of delivery to stores. These lead times make it difficult for us to respond quickly to changes in the demand for our products or to adjust the cost of the product in response to customers’ fashion or price preferences. Any missteps may affect merchandise desirability, gross margins and inventory levels. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately in a timely manner to changes in customers’ preferences could lead to more frequent and larger markdowns, which could result in lower sales and gross margins, reduce our profits and negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, our margins may be impacted by changes in our merchandise mix and a shift toward merchandise with a lower gross margin at full retail. These changes could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. This could also negatively impact our image with our customers and result in diminished brand loyalty. On the other hand, if we underestimate demand for our merchandise, we may experience inventory shortages, resulting in missed sales and lost revenues. Our inability to maintain the value of our brands and our trademarks may adversely affect our business and financial performance. The Christopher & Banks and C.J. Banks brand names are integral to our business. Maintaining, promoting, positioning and growing our brands will depend largely on the success of our design, merchandising and marketing efforts and on our ability to provide a consistent, high quality customer experience. Our business could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve these objectives for our brands. In addition, our public image and reputation could be tarnished by negative publicity. Any of these events could negatively impact sales. We also believe that our “christopher & banks” and “cj banks” trademarks are important to our success and we register the majority of our trademarks in an effort to protect them. If we cannot adequately protect our marks or prevent infringement of them, our business and financial performance could suffer. In addition, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property rights or in marks that are similar to ours, and we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In some cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar marks. Failure to protect our trademarks could adversely affect our business. 8 Table of Contents There are risks associated with our e-commerce business. We sell merchandise over the internet through our web sites, www.christopherandbanks.com and www.cjbanks.com. Our e-commerce operations are subject to numerous risks, including: · the successful implementation of new systems and internet platforms; · reliance on a single third party fulfillment center; · rapid technological change; · reliance on third party computer hardware and software; · diversion of sales from our stores; · liability for online content; · lack of compliance with or violations of applicable state or federal laws and regulations, including those relating to online privacy and the resulting impact on consumer purchases; · credit card fraud; · system failures or security breaches and the costs to address and remedy such failures or breaches; and · timely delivery of our merchandise to our customers by third parties. There also can be no assurance that our e-commerce operations will meet our sales and profitability plans, and the failure to do so could negatively impact our revenues and earnings. If third parties who manage some aspects of our business do not adequately perform their functions, we might experience disruptions in our business, resulting in decreased profits or losses and damage to our reputation. We use third parties in various aspects of our business or to support our operations. We have a long-term contract with a third party to manage much of our e-commerce operations, including order management, order fulfillment, customer care, and channel management services. We rely on third parties to inspect the factories where our products are made for compliance with our vendor code of conduct. We may rely on a third party for the implementation and/or management of certain aspects of our information technology infrastructure. We also rely on third parties to transport merchandise and deliver it to our distribution center, as well as to ship merchandise to our stores and to our third party e-commerce fulfillment center. Failure by any of these third parties to perform these functions effectively and properly could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our profitability and reputation. Extreme and/or unseasonable weather conditions could have a disproportionately large effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our stores are located could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, heavy snowfall or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period might make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores. Our business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could render a portion of our inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions in the affected areas of the United States. Any such prolonged unseasonable weather conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Natural disasters, unusually adverse weather conditions (whether or not attributable to climate change), pandemic outbreaks, terrorist acts and global political events could cause permanent or temporary distribution center or store closures, impair our ability to purchase, receive or replenish inventory or cause customer traffic to decline, all of which could result in lost sales and otherwise adversely affect our financial performance. The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as tornadoes, fires, flood and earthquakes, unusually adverse weather conditions (whether or not attributable to climate change), pandemic outbreaks, terrorist acts or disruptive global political events, such as civil unrest in countries in which our suppliers are located, or similar disruptions could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. To the extent these events result in the closure of our distribution center and corporate headquarters, or a significant number of our stores, or impact one or more of our key suppliers, our operations and financial performance could be materially adversely affected. These events also could have indirect consequences, such as increases in the cost of insurance, if they were to result in significant loss of property or other insurable damage. We may not successfully implement our strategic and tactical initiatives. In conjunction with recent changes in the chief executive officer position and in our merchant team, as discussed in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Transition Report on Form 10-K, the Company has begun to undertake a series of initiatives to improve sales, gross margins and earnings in order to return the Company to profitability. In particular, we are transforming our merchandise strategy and processes to better align with our customers’ fashion preferences, to improve our speed to market and to improve our ability to respond rapidly to customer preferences. While some progress on these initiatives has begun, our ability to continue to make progress depends upon a number of factors which could result in unexpected costs, delays or failure to meet our internal expectations. If we are unable to improve our financial performance, our results of operations and ability to generate cash flow could be adversely affected. We are subject to risks associated with leasing all of our store locations. We currently lease all of our store locations. Our leases range from month-to-month to approximately ten years. A number of our leases have early termination provisions if we do not achieve specified sales levels after an initial term and, in some cases, allow us to pay rent based on a percent of sales if we fail to achieve certain specified sales levels. Approximately 40% of our store base is currently paying reduced rent as a percent of sales and the leases for approximately 67% of our store base expire between now and January 2015. We believe that over the last few years we have been able to negotiate favorable rental rates and extend leases due in part to the state of the economy and higher than usual vacancy rates. It is possible this trend may not continue and that we will either need to pay higher operating costs or close stores in connection with such lease extension negotiations which could adversely impact our financial performance, results of operations and ability to generate cash flow. Given the current state of our business, we have very few store openings planned for fiscal 2012. Increasing our store productivity will be largely dependent upon our success in continuing to rationalize our existing store portfolio as well as in maintaining or increasing customer traffic in our stores. Over the past six years, the average sales per square foot in our stores have steadily declined. Improving the profitability of our existing stores and optimizing store productivity is critical to our future growth and profitability and will also depend on customer acceptance of our merchandise in all of our stores, including our dual and outlet stores. Our ability to increase the productivity of our stores will be largely dependent upon our ability to continue to rationalize our existing store portfolio as well as our ability to generate customer traffic to our stores and to convert that traffic into sales. 10 Table of Contents In November 2011, we announced our plan to close approximately 100 stores. The majority of these stores have already been closed. We also announced our intention to restructure the occupancy costs at the majority of our remaining stores as part of this process. We expect that the reduction in store locations will help to increase our store productivity by eliminating overlap in certain markets and allowing management to focus its resources, such as store merchandise inventories and capital expenditures, on a more streamlined and productive store base. If we are unable to execute successfully on this program to the extent or within the time that we expect or, if the restructured occupancy costs or improvements in store productivity are not at the level that we expect, our revenues, margins, liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected. Customer traffic depends upon our ability to promote our brand successfully with our existing customers and potential new customers by providing merchandise that satisfies customer demand in terms of price, quality, fit and in-stock position. There can be no assurance that our efforts to generate customer traffic in our stores and the resulting sales from that traffic will be successful or at the levels we would expect, which could negatively impact our sales and store productivity and may leave us with excess inventory. We may need to respond to any declines in customer traffic or sales generated from such traffic by increasing markdowns or initiating or continuing additional promotions to attract customers to our stores, which would adversely impact our margins and operating results. The costs to close underperforming stores may be significant and may negatively impact our cash flows and our results of operations. We regularly assess our portfolio of stores for profitability, and we close certain underperforming stores when appropriate under the circumstances. We recently closed approximately 100 stores, most of which were underperforming, in order to reduce operating losses and to achieve improved long-term performance of our store base. In closing underperforming stores, we negotiate with landlords to mitigate the amount of remaining lease obligations. While most of those stores have closed we have not completed the negotiation of the lease termination for approximately 25 stores as of March 24, 2012. There is no assurance we will reach acceptable negotiated lease settlements and, in some cases, the landlords may decide to pursue litigation. As a result, costs to close underperforming stores may be significant and may negatively impact our cash flows and our results of operations. The estimated costs and charges associated with store closings are also based on management’s assumptions and projections, and actual amounts may vary materially from our forecasts and expectations. Additionally, while our goal in closing certain stores is to increase the productivity of our store portfolio, reductions in our overall number of stores will negatively impact our net sales. The impact of potential consolidation of commercial and retail landlords could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Continued consolidation in the commercial retail real estate market could affect our ability to successfully negotiate favorable rental terms for our stores in the future. Should significant consolidation continue, a large proportion of our store base could be concentrated with one or a few entities that could then be in a position to dictate unfavorable terms to us due to their significant negotiating leverage. If we are unable to negotiate favorable lease terms with these entities, this could affect our ability to profitably operate our stores, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents If our stores’ long-lived assets become impaired, we may need to record significant non-cash impairment charges. We monitor the performance and productivity of our store portfolio. When we determine that a store is underperforming or is to be closed, we reassess the recoverability of the store’s long-lived assets, which in some cases can result in an impairment charge. When a store is identified for impairment analysis, we estimate the fair value of the store assets using an income approach, which is based on estimates of future operating cash flows at the store level. These estimates, which include estimates of future net store sales, direct store expenses, and non-cash store adjustments, are based on the experience and knowledge of management, including historical store operating results. These estimates can be affected by factors that can be difficult to predict, such as future operating results, customer activity and future economic conditions, and require management to apply judgment. In addition to any other potential or actual future store closings or any negative trends in our store performance, any decision to close, consolidate or downsize a store may result in additional future impairments of store assets. We are highly dependent on a few suppliers and our business could suffer if we needed to replace them. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities. Instead we depend on independent third parties to manufacture our merchandise. In the transition period, our ten largest suppliers accounted for approximately 55% of the merchandise we purchased and we purchased 18.6%, 9.5% and 7.9% of our goods respectively from our three largest suppliers. We generally maintain non-exclusive relationships with the suppliers that manufacture our merchandise and we compete with other companies for production facilities. As a result, we have no contractual assurances of continued supply or pricing, and any supplier could discontinue selling to us at any time. Moreover, a key supplier may not be able to supply our inventory needs due to capacity constraints, financial instability or other factors beyond our control, or we could decide to stop using a supplier due to quality or other issues. If we were required to change suppliers or if a key supplier were unable to supply desired merchandise in sufficient quantities on acceptable terms, we could experience delays in receipt of inventory until alternative supply arrangements were secured. These delays could result in lost sales and a decline in customer satisfaction. It is also possible that the inability of our suppliers to access credit, or concerns suppliers or their lenders may have with our creditworthiness, may cause them to extend less favorable terms to us, which could adversely affect our cash flows, margins and financial condition, as well as limit the availability under our revolving line of credit. Additionally, delays by our suppliers in supplying our inventory needs could cause us to incur more expensive transportation charges, which may adversely affect our margins. Our reliance on foreign sources of production poses various risks. In the transition period, we directly imported approximately 16% of our merchandise and much of the merchandise we purchase domestically is made overseas. Substantially all of our directly imported merchandise is manufactured in Asia. The majority of these goods are produced in China and Indonesia. Any event causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing or imports from Asia or elsewhere, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, could harm our operations. Because a significant portion of our merchandise is produced overseas, we are subject to the various risks of doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, such as: · significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to port security considerations; · disruption in the operation of the ports where our products are imported; · imposition of or increases in duties, taxes or other charges on imports; · imposition of new legislation or regulations relating to import quotas or other restrictions that may limit or prohibit merchandise that may be imported into the United States from countries or regions where we do business; · financial or political instability in any of the countries in which our merchandise is manufactured; 12 Table of Contents · fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies or restrictions on the transfer of funds; · potential recalls or cancellations of orders for any merchandise that does not meet our quality standards; · inability to meet our production needs due to raw material or labor shortages; · disruption of imports by labor disputes and local business practices; · political or military conflict involving the United States, which could cause a delay in the transportation of the Company’s products and an increase in transportation costs; · heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods; and · natural disasters, disease epidemics and health related concerns, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas. Any of the foregoing factors, or a combination of them, could have an adverse effect on our business. Our raw material costs may increase, which could negatively impact our profitability. The raw materials used to manufacture our products, in particular cotton, and our transportation and contract manufacturing labor costs are subject to availability constraints and price volatility. Consequently, higher product costs could have a negative effect on our gross profit margin and increased selling prices could have a negative effect on our sales volume. We may not be able to pass all or a portion of such higher sourcing costs on to our customers, which could negatively impact our profitability. We rely on independent third party transportation providers for substantially all of our merchandise shipments. We currently rely upon independent third party transportation providers for substantially all of our merchandise shipments, including shipments to our stores, our e-commerce fulfillment center and our e-commerce customers. Our use of outside delivery services for shipments is subject to risks, including increases in fuel prices, which would increase our shipping costs, and employee strikes and inclement weather, which may impact a shipper’s ability to provide delivery services that adequately meet our shipping needs. If we change shipping companies, we could face logistical difficulties that could adversely impact deliveries and we would incur costs and expend resources in connection with such a change. Moreover, we may not be able to obtain terms as favorable as those received from independent third party transportation providers we currently use, which would increase our costs. Our business could suffer if one or more of our suppliers fails to comply with applicable laws, including a failure to follow acceptable labor practices. Our suppliers source the merchandise sold in our stores from manufacturers both inside and outside of the United States. We expect manufacturers of the goods that we sell to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations and comply with our social compliance program and, although each of our purchase orders requires adherence to accepted labor practices, applicable laws and compliance with our vendor code of conduct, we do not supervise or control our suppliers or the manufacturers that produce the merchandise we sell. Our social compliance program is intended to promote ethical business practices, and our staff and the staff of the third party auditing service company periodically visit or inspect the operations of our independent manufacturers to assess compliance with our vendor code of conduct. Nonetheless, the violation of any labor, immigration, manufacturing safety or other laws by any of our suppliers or their U.S. and non-U.S. manufacturers, such as use of child labor, could damage our brand image or subject us to boycotts by our customers or activist groups. 13 Table of Contents We have experienced significant management turnover and our future success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to retain the current management team and their ability and that of the current and future chief executive officer to execute a successful business strategy. Over the past two years, we have experienced a number of changes in our executive ranks, including the positions of president and chief executive officer, chief financial officer and head merchant. Also, our Board of Directors is currently conducting a search for a permanent chief executive officer (“CEO”). The loss of any of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, as we may not be able to find suitable individuals to replace them on a timely basis. In addition, any departures of key management could be viewed in a negative light by investors and analysts, which could cause our common stock price to decline. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on the current and future CEO and management team’s ability to implement a successful business strategy, to lead and motivate our employees, and to work effectively together. If this management team is not successful in that regard, our ability to execute our business strategy and tactical initiatives could be adversely affected. Future turnover within senior management could adversely impact the execution of our business strategies and our results of operations, and it may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. Our results of operations could deteriorate if we fail to attract, develop and retain qualified employees. Our success depends to a significant extent on our ability to attract, hire, motivate and retain qualified employees, including store personnel. Competition for experienced managers in the retail industry is considerable, and our operations could be adversely affected if we cannot retain our experienced managers or if we fail to attract additional qualified individuals. Our performance also depends in large part on the talents and contributions of engaged and skilled associates in all areas of our organization. The turnover rate in the retail industry’s store operations is high, and qualified individuals of the requisite caliber and number needed to fill open positions may be in short supply in some geographic areas. If we are unable to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain talented individuals or if there is a significant increase in employee turnover rates, we may be unable to compete effectively and our business could be adversely impacted. System security risk issues could disrupt our internal operations or information technology systems, and any such disruption could harm our net revenues, increase our expenses and harm our reputation, results of operations and stock price. In addition, incidents in which we fail to protect our customers’ information against security breaches could result in monetary damages against us and could otherwise damage our reputation, harm our businesses and adversely impact our results of operations. We rely on information systems to manage our operations, including a full range of retail, financial, sourcing and merchandising systems, and regularly make investments to upgrade, enhance or replace these systems. The reliability and capacity of our information systems are critical. Despite our preventative efforts, experienced computer programmers and hackers, or even internal users, may be able to penetrate, create systems disruptions or cause shutdowns of our information systems or that of third party companies with which we have contracted to provide payment processing services. As a result, we could incur significant expenses addressing problems created by these breaches. This risk is heightened because we collect and store customer information for marketing purposes. Any limitations imposed on the use of such customer information, whether imposed by federal or state governments or business partners, could have an adverse effect on our future marketing activities. In addition, any compromise of customer information could subject us to customer or government litigation and harm our reputation, which could adversely affect our business and growth. Moreover, we could incur significant expenses or disruptions of our operations in connection with system failures or data breaches. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we buy or license from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including “bugs” and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the systems. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate security problems, viruses and bugs, or any problems associated with the outsourced services provided to us, could be significant, and efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service that may impede our sales, distribution or other critical functions. 14 Table of Contents In addition, almost all states have adopted breach of data security statutes or regulations that require notification to consumers if the security of their personal information is breached. Governmental focus on data security may lead to additional legislative action, and the increased emphasis on information security may lead customers to request that we take additional measures to enhance security. As a result, we may have to modify our business with the goal of further improving data security, which would result in increased expenses and operating complexity. Lastly, our reputation may be damaged by any compromise of security, loss or theft of customer data in our possession, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. We depend on a single facility to conduct our operations and distribution of merchandise and our business would suffer a material adverse effect if this facility were shut down or its operations severely disrupted. Our corporate headquarters and our only distribution facility are located in one facility in Plymouth, Minnesota. Our distribution facility supports our retail stores and supplies merchandise to our third party e-commerce provider. Virtually all of our merchandise is shipped from our suppliers to the distribution facility and then packaged and shipped to our stores or to our third party e-commerce provider. Our stores and our third party e-commerce provider must receive merchandise in a timely manner in order to stay current with the fashion preferences of our customers. If we encounter difficulties associated with the distribution facility or if it were to be shut down for any reason, we could face inventory shortages and delays in shipments. In addition, much of our computer equipment and all of our senior management, including critical resources dedicated to merchandising, finance and administrative functions, are located at our corporate headquarters. In the event of a disaster or fire, our management and operations distribution staff would have to find an alternative location, causing further disruption and expense to our business and operations. Although we maintain business interruption and property insurance, management cannot be assured that our insurance coverage will be sufficient or that any insurance proceeds will be timely paid to us if our distribution center or operations were shut down for any unplanned reason. Tightening of credit markets may adversely affect our business. Tightening of the credit markets could make it more difficult for us to enter into agreements for new indebtedness (we had no debt outstanding as of January 28, 2012) or to obtain funding through the issuance of our securities. Worsening economic conditions could also result in difficulties for financial institutions and other parties that we may do business with, which could potentially impair our ability to access financing under our existing Credit Facility. The sufficiency and availability of our sources of liquidity may be affected by a variety of factors. The sufficiency and availability of our sources of liquidity may be affected by a variety of factors, including, without limitation: (i) the level of our operating cash flows, which are impacted by consumer acceptance of our merchandise, general economic conditions and the level of consumer discretionary spending; and (ii) our ability to maintain borrowing availability and to comply with applicable covenants contained in our Credit Facility. As a specialty retailer dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, we have been adversely affected by the current economic environment, which has impacted our sales, margins, cash flows, liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to become profitable and to generate positive cash flows is dependent upon many factors, including improvement in economic conditions and consumer spending and our ability to execute successfully our financial plan and strategic initiatives. There can be no assurance that our cash flows from operations will be sufficient at all times to support our Company without additional financing or credit availability. 15 Table of Contents Should we be unable to borrow under the Credit Facility in the future, it is possible, depending on the cause of our inability to borrow, that we may not have sufficient cash resources for our operations and our liquidity would be significantly impaired, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Credit Facility contains borrowing base and other provisions that may restrict our ability to access it. Lower than expected sales that negatively impact our cash flows could require us to borrow under our existing Credit Facility. Although we currently do not have any borrowings under this facility, we use it periodically for letters of credit, which reduces the amount available for borrowings. The actual amount of credit that is available from time to time under our Credit Facility is limited to a borrowing base amount that is determined according to the value of eligible inventory, as reduced by certain reserve amounts per the terms of the Credit Facility. Consequently, it is possible that, should we need to access our Credit Facility, it may not be available in full. Moreover, under our Credit Facility, we are subject to various covenants and requirements. Should we be unable to comply with certain of the covenants and requirements in the Credit Facility, we may be unable to borrow under our Credit Facility. Access to additional financing from the capital markets may be limited. Primarily as a result of our operating losses during fiscal 2012, our cash, cash equivalents and short and long-term investments have decreased from $105.6 million at February 26, 2011 to $61.7 million at January 28, 2012. While we have availability under our Credit Facility to bolster our liquidity, we may need additional capital to fund our operations, particularly if our operating results and cash flows from operating activities do not improve substantially compared to recent periods or if the Credit Facility were unavailable. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securities would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. If we borrow under our Credit Facility or incur other debt, our expenses will increase and we could be subject to additional covenants that may restrict our operating flexibility. Newly issued securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior or otherwise superior to those of our common stock. There is no assurance that equity or debt financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us. Without sufficient liquidity, we will be more vulnerable to further downturns in our business or the general economy, we may not be able to react to changes in our business or to take advantage of opportunities as they arise and we could be forced to curtail our operations, all of which could result in material adverse consequences to our business, results of operations and financial condition. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. The Company recently suspended the payment of its quarterly dividend. We do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends on shares of our common stock for the foreseeable future. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions relating to indebtedness we may incur, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant. Our stock price has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate widely. The market price for our common stock has experienced, and could continue to experience in the future, substantial volatility as a result of many factors. Failure to meet market expectations, particularly with respect to sales, earnings and same-store sales, would likely result in a decline in the market value of our stock. In addition, stock markets generally have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility and market prices for the stock of many companies, including ours, have experienced wide price fluctuations not necessarily related to their operating performance. 16 Table of Contents The reported high and low sales prices of our common stock were $7.12 per share and $2.00 per share, respectively, during the transition period. The current price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices. The fluctuation of the market price of our common stock may have a negative impact on our liquidity and access to capital. In addition, price volatility of our common stock may expose us to stockholder litigation, which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements could damage our reputation, financial condition and market price of our stock. We are subject to numerous regulations and laws that govern our operations, marketing and sale of our merchandise, corporate structure, and financial controls and disclosures. Our policies, procedures and internal controls are designed to comply with those applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), as well as applicable employment and consumer protection laws. Any changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations or the enactment of any new legislation may increase the complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations may damage our reputation, impact our financial condition or reduce the market price of our stock. We may be subject to adverse outcomes in current or future litigation matters. We are involved from time-to-time in litigation and other claims against our business. There are also other types of claims that could be asserted against us based on litigation that has been asserted against others, particularly in the retail industry, such as intellectual property infringement (as discussed below), customer and employment claims, including class action lawsuits claiming violation of federal or state laws. These matters typically arise in the ordinary course of business but, in some cases, could also raise complex factual and legal issues requiring significant management time and, if determined adversely to the Company, could subject the Company to material liabilities. In recent years, there has been increasing activity by companies which have acquired intellectual property rights but do not practice those rights (sometimes referred to as “patent trolls”) to engage in very broad licensing programs aimed at a large number of companies in a wide variety of businesses, or at retail companies specifically. These efforts typically involve proposing licenses in exchange for a payment of money and may also include the threat or actual initiation of litigation for that purpose. Any such litigation can be quite costly to defend, even if unsubstantiated or invalid. There is one such matter pending against us as to which our third party e-commerce provider has agreed to defend and indemnify us, subject to the terms of our e-commerce agreement with them. We also receive from time-to-time communications from patent trolls relating to proposed licenses. It is not possible to predict the impact, if any, of such claims on our business and operations. If, for any reason, we do not meet the NYSE continued listing requirements, our common stock could be delisted. The continued listing requirements of the NYSE require, among other things, that the average closing price of our common stock be above $1.00 for over 30 consecutive trading days, and that our market capitalization meet certain minimum levels. To date for this calendar year, through March 24, 2012, the lowest closing price for our stock during trading on the NYSE has been $2.02 per share; we have, therefore, been in compliance with the NYSE’s listing requirements. Should we become non-compliant, we generally would have a specified period of time to cure any non-compliance, and we would intend to take steps to cure any such non-compliance. If at the end of any cure period, however, we were unable to satisfy the NYSE criteria for continued listing, our common stock would be subject to delisting, which may reduce the liquidity and market price of our common stock and reduce the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock. 17 Table of Contents Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover and discourage, delay or prevent stockholders from replacing or removing current directors or management. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a merger with or acquisition of us, even where the stockholders may consider it to be favorable. These provisions could also prevent or hinder an attempt by stockholders to replace current directors or management and include: · prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; · authorizing the Board to designate and issue “blank check” preferred stock; · limiting persons who can call special meetings of the Board of Directors or stockholders; · prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and · establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at a stockholders meeting. Changes in accounting rules and regulations may adversely affect our results of operations. Changes to existing accounting rules or regulations may impact our future results of operations or cause the perception that we are more highly leveraged. Other new accounting rules or regulations and varying interpretations of existing accounting rules and regulations have occurred and may occur in the future. For instance, accounting regulatory authorities have indicated that they may begin to require lessees to capitalize operating leases in their financial statements in the next few years. If adopted, such a change would require us to record a significant amount of lease related assets and liabilities on our balance sheet and make other changes to the recording and classification of lease-related expenses on our statements of operations and cash flow. This and other future changes to accounting rules or regulations or the questioning of current accounting practices may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no matters which are required to be reported under Item 1B. 