Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our future results may be affected by a number of factors of which we have little or no control. The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements as discussed in Item 1 above and in the Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in Item 7 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following issues, uncertainties, and risks, among others, should be considered in evaluating our business and growth outlook. Our business is subject to general economic, credit and business factors affecting the trucking industry that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our business is dependent on a number of factors that may have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations, many of which are beyond our control. The factors that have negatively affected us, and may do so in the future, include volatile fuel prices, excess capacity in the trucking industry, surpluses in the market for used equipment, higher interest rates, higher license and registration fees, increases in insurance premiums, higher self-insurance levels, increases in collisions, injuries and adverse claims and difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers and independent contractors. Additionally, changing impacts of regulatory measures could impair our operating efficiency and productivity, decrease our revenues, and result in higher operating costs. We are also affected by recessionary economic cycles, such as the period from 2007 to 2009, and by downturns in customers’ business cycles. Such economic conditions can decrease freight demand and increase the supply of tractors and trailers, thereby exerting downward pressure on rates or equipment utilization and may adversely affect our customers and their ability to pay for our services. Additionally, it is not possible to predict the effects of armed conflicts or terrorist attacks and subsequent events on the economy or on consumer confidence in the United States, or the impact, if any, on our future results of operations. While the economy has shown signs of improvement compared to the recessionary levels of 2007 to 2009, the economy remains relatively weak with high unemployment, relatively low consumer confidence and diminished consumer spending. If the economy and credit markets return to the recent recessionary levels, our business, financial results, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, especially if consumer confidence and domestic spending further decline. We may not be able to access our current sources of credit, and our lenders may not have the capital to fund those sources. We may need to incur additional indebtedness or issue debt or equity securities in the future to refinance existing debt, fund working capital requirements, make investments, or for general corporate purposes. As a result of contractions in the credit market, as well as other economic trends in the credit market industry, we may not be able to secure financing for future activities on satisfactory terms, or at all. If we are not successful in obtaining sufficient financing because we are unable to access the capital markets on financially economical or feasible terms, it could impact our ability to provide services to our customers and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial results, current operations, results of operations, and potential investments. We are subject to increases in costs and other events that are outside our control that could materially affect our results of operations. Such cost increases include, but are not limited to, fuel and energy prices, taxes and interest rates, tolls, license and registration fees, insurance, revenue equipment and related maintenance costs, and healthcare and other benefits for our employees. In addition, declines in the resale value of revenue equipment can also affect our revenues and cash flows. From time-to-time, various federal, state or local taxes also increase, including taxes on fuels. We cannot predict whether, or in what form, any such increase applicable to us will be enacted, but such an increase could adversely affect our results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry, and our business may suffer if we are unable to adequately address downward pricing pressures and other factors that may adversely affect our ability to compete with other carriers. Numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to achieve and maintain profitability. These factors include: · We compete with many other truckload carriers of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with less-than-truckload carriers and railroads, some of which have more equipment or greater capital resources, or other competitive advantages. · Some of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of economic slowdown, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates, maintain our margins or maintain growth in our business. · Some of our customers also operate their own private trucking fleets, and they may decide to transport more of their own freight. · Many customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting so-called “core carriers” as approved service providers, and in some instances we may not be selected. · Many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some of our business to competitors. · The trend toward consolidation in the trucking industry may create large carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages relating to their size, and we may have difficulty competing with these larger carriers. · Advances in technology require increased investments to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher freight rates to cover the cost of these investments. · Competition from internet-based and other logistics and freight brokerage companies may adversely affect our customer relationships and freight rates. · Economies of scale that may be passed on to smaller carriers by procurement aggregation providers may improve their ability to compete with us. We have a recent history of net losses and may be unsuccessful in improving our profitability. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, we incurred net losses of $9.1 million and $17.7 million, respectively. Achieving profitability depends upon numerous factors, including our ability to increase our average revenue per tractor, increase velocity, improve driver retention and control expenses. We might not achieve profitability or, if we do, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability in the future. If we are unable to achieve profitability, our liquidity, financial position, and results of operations will continue to be adversely affected. We have begun implementing a long-term turnaround plan to improve our operational performance and to return the Company to sustained profitability. We sought broad input in the design of the plan, which included the hiring, as key members of our management team, of industry veterans with expertise in specific subject matters such as freight pricing. We may be unsuccessful in implementing our plan effectively or achieving sustainable improvement from these efforts. Further, we may devote a significant amount of management and financial resources and not achieve the desired results. We may not be successful in implementing new management, operating procedures and cost savings initiatives. As part of our long-term turnaround plan, we recently have made changes to our management team and structure, as well as our operating procedures. These changes may not be successful or may not achieve the desired results. We may require additional training or different personnel to implement successfully these procedures, all of which may result in additional expense, delays in obtaining results, or disruptions to our operations. Some of these changes include customer service and driver management changes and cost savings initiatives. These changes and initiatives may not improve our results of operations, including asset productivity, tractor utilization, driver retention and base revenue per mile. In addition, we may not be successful in achieving the expected savings in our cost structure, including the areas of insurance and claims, equipment maintenance, equipment operating costs, and fuel economy. In such event, our revenue, financial results, and ability to operate profitably could be negatively impacted. Further, our operating results may be negatively affected by a failure to further penetrate our existing customer base, cross-sell our services, pursue new customer opportunities, and manage the operations and expenses of our new or growing services. Ongoing insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings. If the number or severity of claims increases or if the costs associated with claims otherwise increase, our operating results will be adversely affected. The time that such costs are incurred may significantly impact our operating results for a particular quarter, as compared to the comparable quarter in the prior year. In addition, if we were to lose our ability to self-insure for any significant period of time, our insurance costs would materially increase, and we could experience difficulty in obtaining adequate levels of coverage. Due to our significant self-insured amounts, we have significant exposure to fluctuations in the number and severity of claims and the risk of being required to accrue or pay additional amounts if our estimates are revised or the claims ultimately prove to be more severe than originally assessed. Further, our self-insured retention levels could change and result in additional volatility. Recently, we have significantly adjusted our long-term claims liability reserves, and future significant adjustments may occur. We could experience increases in our insurance and claims expenses in the future if we have an increase in coverage, a reduction in our self-retention level, if we experience a claim in excess of our coverage limits, if we experience a claim for which we do not have coverage, if we have to increase our reserves or if our claims experience deteriorates. If our insurance or claims expense increases, and we are unable to offset the increase with higher freight rates, our earnings could be materially and adversely affected. Healthcare legislation and inflationary cost increases also could negatively impact our financial results by increasing our annual employee healthcare costs going forward. Although we cannot presently determine the extent of the impact healthcare costs will have on our financial performance, we do expect such costs will increase a minimum of approximately $243,000 during 2014. In addition, rising healthcare costs could force us to make changes to our benefits program, which could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain employees. Our Revolver and other financing arrangements contain certain covenants, restrictions, and requirements, and we may be unable to comply with the covenants, restrictions, and requirements. A default could result in the acceleration of all or part of our outstanding indebtedness, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, and the price of our common stock. In 2012, we entered into a new $125.0 million revolving credit agreement (the “Revolver”). We also have numerous other financing arrangements. Although there are no negative covenants relating to financial ratios or minimum balance sheet requirements, the Revolver contains certain restrictions and covenants relating to, among other things, dividends, liens, acquisitions and dispositions outside of the ordinary course of business and affiliate transactions. The Revolver has an accordion feature whereby we may elect to increase the size of the Revolver by up to an additional $50.0 million, subject to customary conditions and lender participation. If we fail to comply with any of our financing arrangement covenants, restrictions and requirements, we will be in default under the relevant agreement, which could cause cross-defaults under our other financing arrangements. In the event of any such default, if we failed to obtain replacement financing, amendments to, or waivers under the applicable financing arrangements, our lenders could cease making further advances, declare our debt to be immediately due and payable, fail to renew letters of credit, impose significant restrictions and requirements on our operations, institute foreclosure procedures against their collateral or impose significant fees and transaction costs. If acceleration occurs, it may be difficult or expensive to refinance the accelerated debt or we may have to issue equity securities, which would dilute stock ownership. Even if new financing is made available to us, more stringent borrowing terms may mean that credit is not available to us on acceptable terms. A default under our financing arrangements could cause a materially adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations Under the Revolver’s terms, we are required to maintain a minimum collateral cushion above the maximum facility size, referred to as “suppressed availability.” During 2014 (after giving effect to an amendment to the Revolver signed on March 14, 2014, and effective as of December 31, 2013), failure to maintain the minimum suppressed availability threshold of $30.0 million will reduce our borrowing availability by the amount of the shortfall below $30.0 million. After 2014, failure to maintain the minimum suppressed availability threshold will reduce the advance rate on eligible revenue equipment and, if at least $20.0 million is not maintained, a permanent amortization of our borrowing base at the rate of 1/72nd, or approximately $1.5 million, per month would result. At December 31, 2013, our suppressed availability was $24.0 million, which reduced our borrowing availability by $6.0 million, to $33.4 million. Future fluctuations in the amount and value of equipment serving as collateral under the Revolver will impact our borrowing availability. We may find it necessary or desirable to enter into additional amendments to our Revolver in the future, and we may be unable to comply with requirements for suppressed availability in the future. We have significant ongoing capital requirements that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations, or obtain financing on favorable terms. The truckload industry is capital intensive. Historically, we have depended on cash from operations, borrowings from banks and finance companies, and lease instruments to expand and upgrade our revenue equipment. Including equipment we expect to finance with operating leases, we expect capital expenditures for our revenue equipment to increase from the level we experienced in 2013 as we continue to replace and upgrade our fleet. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations and obtain borrowing on favorable terms in the future, we may have to limit our fleet size, enter into less favorable financing arrangements, or operate our revenue equipment for longer periods. Accordingly, we may be unable to decrease the age of, or expand, our tractor and trailer fleet, which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition. We depend on the proper functioning, availability, and security of our information and communication systems, and a systems failure or unavailability or a security breach could cause a significant disruption to and adversely affect our business. We depend on the proper functioning, availability, and security of our communications and data processing systems in operating our business. Our information and communication systems are protected through physical and software safeguards. However, they are still vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins and similar events. We do not have a formally documented catastrophic disaster recovery plan or a fully redundant alternate processing capability. If any of our critical information or communication systems fail or become otherwise unavailable or experience a security breach, we would have to perform the functions manually, which could temporarily impact our ability to manage our fleet efficiently, to respond to customers’ requests effectively, to maintain billing and other records reliably, to bill for services accurately or in a timely manner, and to communicate internally and with our drivers, customers, and vendors. Our business interruption insurance may be inadequate to protect us in the event of a catastrophe. Any system failure, security breach or other damage could interrupt or delay our operations, damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are in the midst of a multi-year process to migrate our legacy mainframe platform and internally developed software applications to server-based platforms. We purchased off-the-shelf products for our core software needs and developed value-added, decision-support software applications internally. In July 2011, we migrated our Operations system from our legacy mainframe onto off-the-shelf software, which had a significant adverse effect on our business and operating results. Although this was the most significant and risky part of our multi-year process, we have a few remaining systems to convert which could also cause delays, complications or additional costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We anticipate legacy mainframe applications should be completely migrated to newer platforms by December 2014. During 2013, we began developing a plan to host all of our production systems at a remote data center. This data center will replicate all production data back to the data center at our headquarters which will protect our information in the event of a fire or other significant natural disaster. The objective for this project is to have any system recovered within four hours of an incident. We receive and transmit confidential data with and among our customers, drivers, vendors, employees, and service providers in the normal course of business. Despite our implementation of secure transmission techniques, internal data security measures, and monitoring tools, our information and communication systems are vulnerable to security threats and breach attempts from both external and internal sources. Any such breach could result in disruption of communications with our customers, drivers, vendors, employees, and service providers and access, viewing, misappropriation, altering, or deleting information in our systems, including customer, driver, vendor, employee, and service provider information and our proprietary business information. A security breach could damage our business operations and reputation and could cause us to incur costs associated with repairing our systems, increased security, customer notifications, lost revenues, litigation, regulatory action, and reputational damage. We depend on our major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from our major customers. For fiscal year 2013, our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 27% of our revenue, our top five customers accounted for approximately 16% of our revenue and our largest customer accounted for approximately 4% of our revenue. Economic conditions and capital markets may adversely affect our customers and their ability to remain solvent. Our customers’ financial difficulties can negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition, especially if our customers were to delay or default on payments to us. Generally, we do not have long-term contracts with our major customers, and we cannot assure you that our customer relationships will continue as presently in effect. A reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Continued management and key employee turnover or failure to attract and retain qualified management and other key personnel, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon the services of our executive management team, which has experienced significant changes in recent years. Continuing or unexpected turnover in key leadership positions within the Company may adversely impact our ability to manage the Company efficiently and effectively, and such turnover can be disruptive and distracting to management, may lead to additional departures of existing personnel, and could have a material adverse effect on our operations and future profitability. We must continue to develop and retain a core group of managers if we are to realize our goal of expanding our operations, improve our earnings consistency and position ourselves for long-term revenue growth. We experienced substantial turnover among our personnel, particularly among our accounting and finance personnel, during 2013. Turnover of personnel could create operational inefficiencies, difficulties in efficiently and accurately closing our financial statements or the need to restate prior results that could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we must successfully integrate new management and personnel into the Company to achieve our operating objectives and failure to do so could adversely affect our results of operations and strategic initiatives. We operate in a highly regulated industry, and changes in existing regulations or violations of existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. We operate in the United States pursuant to operating authority granted by the DOT and in various Canadian provinces pursuant to operating authority granted by the Ministries of Transportation and Communications in such provinces. Our Company drivers and independent contractors also must comply with the safety and fitness regulations of the DOT, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing, driver safety performance, and hours-of-service. We do not have a reliable measurement of the impact of the more restrictive hours of service regulations that became effective in July 2013 on our operations, but we believe that impact has been less obvious than that experienced in the broader industry because we experienced higher year-over-year miles per seated tractor during the last six months of 2013. We believe our improved productivity over that time period was the result of company-specific initiatives that might have produced even greater year-over-year improvements if not for the hours of service rule changes. Such matters as weight and equipment dimensions also are subject to government regulations. We also may become subject to new or more restrictive regulations relating to exhaust emissions, drivers’ hours-of-service, ergonomics, on-board reporting of operations, collective bargaining, security at ports and other matters affecting safety or operating methods. Future laws and regulations may be more stringent, require changes in our operating practices, influence the demand for transportation services, or require us to incur significant additional costs. Higher costs incurred by us or by our suppliers who pass the costs on to us through higher prices could adversely affect our results of operations. The Regulation section in Item 1 of Part 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K discusses in detail several proposed, pending and final regulations that could significantly affect our business and operations. The DOT’s Compliance Safety Accountability program could adversely affect our profitability and operations, our ability to maintain or grow our fleet, and our customer relationships. Under CSA, drivers and fleets are evaluated and ranked based on certain safety-related standards. The methodology for determining a carrier’s DOT safety rating has been expanded to include the on-road safety performance of the carrier’s drivers. As a result, certain current and potential drivers may no longer be eligible to drive for us, our fleet could be ranked poorly as compared to our peer firms, and our safety rating could be adversely impacted. A reduction in eligible drivers or a poor fleet ranking may result in difficulty attracting and retaining qualified drivers, increased competition for drivers with favorable safety ratings, increased driver-related compensation costs, and loss of business as our customers direct their business away from us and to carriers with higher fleet safety ratings, which would adversely affect our results of operations. From time to time we may, and in the past have, exceeded the established intervention thresholds under certain categories. Based on these unfavorable ratings, our drivers may be prioritized for intervention action or roadside inspection by regulatory authorities, and our customers may be less likely to assign loads to us. Additionally, we may incur greater than expected expenses in our attempts to improve our scores. Decreases in the availability of new tractors and trailers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. From time to time, some tractor and trailer vendors have reduced their manufacturing output due to, for example, lower demand for their products in economic downturns or a shortage of component parts. As conditions changed, some of those vendors have had difficulty fulfilling the increased demand for new equipment. There have been periods when we were unable to purchase as much new revenue equipment as we needed to sustain our desired growth rate and to maintain a late-model fleet. We may experience similar difficulties in future periods. Also, to meet the more restrictive EPA emissions standards promulgated in 2007 and in 2010, vendors have had to introduce new engine technology. An inability to continue to obtain an adequate supply of new tractors or trailers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in the price or availability of fuel, hedging activities, the volume and terms of diesel fuel purchase commitments, surcharge collection and surcharge policies approved by customers may increase our costs of operation, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Fuel is one of our largest operating expenses. Diesel fuel prices fluctuate greatly due to economic, political, natural, regional and other factors beyond our control. Fuel pricing also can be affected by the rising demand in developing countries and could be adversely impacted by the use of crude oil and oil reserves for other purposes and diminished drilling activity. Such events may lead not only to increases in fuel prices, but also to fuel shortages and disruptions in the fuel supply chain. Because our operations are dependent upon diesel fuel, significant diesel fuel cost increases, shortages or supply disruptions could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. From time to time, we may use hedging contracts and volume purchase arrangements to attempt to limit the effect of price fluctuations. If we do hedge, we may be forced to make cash payments under the hedging arrangements. We use a fuel surcharge program to recapture a portion of the increases in fuel prices over a base rate negotiated with our customers. Our fuel surcharge program does not protect us from the full effect of increases in fuel prices. The terms of each customer’s fuel surcharge program vary, and certain customers have sought to modify the terms of their fuel surcharge programs to minimize recoverability for fuel price increases. For example, any current week’s fuel surcharge rate is based on the prior week’s national average diesel price. Thus, in periods of rising prices, the current week’s fuel surcharge is based on the prior week’s lower diesel price while we are paying the current week’s higher diesel price at the pump. Also, during times of low freight volumes, shippers can use their negotiating leverage to impose less compensatory fuel surcharge policies. A failure to improve our fuel price protection through these measures, further increases in fuel prices, or a shortage or rationing of diesel fuel could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Increases in driver compensation or difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers could adversely affect our profitability. Like many truckload carriers, from time to time we experience substantial difficulty in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified drivers, including independent contractors. In addition, due in part to current economic conditions, including the higher cost of fuel, insurance and tractors, the available pool of independent contractor drivers has been declining. Regulatory requirements, including CSA, have also reduced the number of eligible drivers. Because of the shortage of qualified drivers and intense competition for drivers from other trucking companies, we expect to continue to face difficulty increasing the number of our drivers, including independent contractor drivers. The compensation we offer our drivers and independent contractors is subject to market conditions, and we may find it necessary to continue to increase driver and independent contractor compensation in future periods. In addition, we and our industry suffer from a high driver turnover rate. Driver turnover requires us to continually recruit a substantial number of drivers in order to operate existing revenue equipment. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain a sufficient number of drivers, we could be required to adjust our compensation packages, let tractors sit idle, or operate with fewer tractors and face difficulty meeting shipper demands, all of which would adversely affect our growth and profitability. If our independent contractors are deemed by regulators or judicial process to be employees, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Tax and other regulatory authorities have in the past sought to assert that independent contractors in the trucking industry are employees rather than independent contractors. Proposed federal legislation would make it easier to reclassify independent contractors as employees. Some states have put initiatives in place to increase their revenues from items such as unemployment, workers’ compensation, and income taxes, and a reclassification of independent contractors as employees would help states with this initiative. Further, class actions and other lawsuits have been filed in our industry seeking to reclassify independent contractors as employees for a variety of purposes, including workers’ compensation and health care coverage. Taxing and other regulatory authorities and courts apply a variety of standards in their determination of independent contractor status. If our independent contractors are determined to be our employees, we would incur additional exposure under federal and state tax, workers’ compensation, unemployment benefits, labor, employment, and tort laws, including for prior periods, as well as potential liability for employee benefits and tax withholdings. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the transportation and handling of hazardous materials, fuel storage tanks, air emissions from our vehicles and facilities, engine idling, and discharge and retention of storm water. We operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination may have occurred. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. We also maintain above-ground bulk fuel storage tanks and fueling islands at four of our facilities and one leased facility has below-ground bulk fuel storage tanks. A small percentage of our freight consists of low-grade hazardous substances, which subjects us to a wide array of regulations. Additionally, increasing efforts to control emissions of greenhouse gases may have an adverse effect on us. Federal and state lawmakers are considering a variety of climate-change proposals and new greenhouse gas regulations that could increase the cost of new tractors, impair productivity and increase our operating expenses. Although we have instituted programs to monitor and control environmental risks and promote compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, if we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, if there are releases of hazardous substances we transport, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to liabilities, including substantial fines or penalties or civil and criminal liability, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we cannot effectively manage the challenges associated with doing business internationally, our revenues and profitability may suffer. An integral component of our operations is the business we conduct in Mexico, and to a lesser extent Canada, and we are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in foreign currencies, changes in the economic strength of the countries in which we do business, difficulties in enforcing contractual obligations and intellectual property rights, burdens of complying with a wide variety of international and United States export and import laws, and social, political, and economic instability. Additional risks associated with our foreign operations, including restrictive trade policies and imposition of duties, taxes, or government royalties by foreign governments, are present but largely mitigated by the terms of NAFTA. Seasonality and the impact of weather affect our operations and profitability. Our tractor productivity decreases during the winter season because inclement weather impedes operations, and some shippers reduce their shipments after the winter holiday season. Revenue can also be affected by bad weather and holidays, since revenue is directly related to available working days of shippers. At the same time, operating expenses increase, with fuel efficiency declining because of engine idling and harsh weather creating higher accident frequency, increased claims and more equipment repairs. We could also suffer short-term impacts from weather-related events such as hurricanes, blizzards, ice storms and floods that could harm our results or make our results more volatile. Increased prices, reduced productivity and design changes of new engines may adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. We are subject to risk with respect to prices for new tractors. Prices may increase, among other reasons, due to government regulations applicable to newly manufactured tractors and diesel engines and due to commodity prices and pricing power among equipment manufacturers. More restrictive EPA emissions standards have required vendors to introduce new engines. Beginning in 2013, these regulations also require that all heavy-duty diesel engines built for highway applications over 14,000 pounds include certified onboard diagnostics systems to monitor emissions. Tractors that meet these heightened standards are more expensive than non-compliant tractors. As of December 31, 2013, in excess of 99% of our tractor fleet was comprised of tractors with engines that met the EPA mandated clean air standards that became effective in 2007 and 2010. We expect to continue to pay increased prices for equipment that meets the EPA mandated clean air standards. Further, as with any engine redesign, there is a risk that the newly-designed engines will have unforeseen problems that could adversely impact our business. In sum, these regulations have resulted in higher prices for tractors and diesel engines and increased operating and maintenance costs, and continued increases in pricing or costs may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The Regulation section in Item 1 of Part 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K discusses in detail several proposed, pending and final regulations that could significantly affect our business and operations. Fluctuations in the prices of used revenue equipment may adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. A decreased demand for used revenue equipment could adversely affect our business and operating results. We rely on the sale and trade-in of used revenue equipment to partially offset the cost of new revenue equipment. The market demand for used equipment is difficult to forecast and, although our equipment disposal schedule may fluctuate, we currently expect the market demand and gains on disposal in 2014 to be comparable to demand experienced in 2013. When the used equipment market is weak, it may increase our net capital expenditures for new revenue equipment, decrease our gains on sale of revenue equipment (or create a loss on sale of revenue equipment), or increase our maintenance costs if management decides to extend the use of revenue equipment in a depressed market, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We depend on third parties, particularly in our brokerage and rail intermodal businesses, and service instability from these providers could increase our operating costs and reduce our ability to offer brokerage and rail intermodal services, which could adversely affect our revenue, results of operations and customer relationships. Our brokerage business is dependent upon the services of third-party capacity providers, including other truckload carriers. These third-party providers seek other freight opportunities and may require increased compensation in times of improved freight demand or tight trucking capacity. Our inability to secure the services of these third parties, or increases in the prices we must pay to secure such services, could have an adverse effect on our operations and profitability. Our rail intermodal business utilizes railroads and some third-party drayage carriers to transport freight for our customers. In most markets, rail service is limited to a few railroads or even a single railroad. Any future reduction in service by the railroads with which we have or in the future may have relationships is likely to increase the cost of the rail-based services we provide and could reduce the reliability, efficiency, timeliness, and overall attractiveness of our rail-based intermodal services. Furthermore, railroads increase shipping rates as market conditions permit. Price increases could result in higher costs to our customers and reduce or eliminate our ability to offer intermodal services. In addition, we may not be able to negotiate additional contracts with railroads to expand our capacity, add additional routes, or obtain multiple providers, which could limit our ability to provide this service. Certain provisions of our corporate documents and Delaware law, together with our stockholder rights plan, could deter acquisition proposals and make it difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Company. This could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving the Company that our stockholders may consider favorable. For example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock. Without stockholder approval, the Board of Directors has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock, which could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Our certificate of incorporation also provides: · for a classified Board of Directors, whereby directors serve for three-year terms, with approximately one-third of the directors coming up for re-election each year, making it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of our Board of Directors through a proxy contest; · that vacancies on our Board of Directors may be filled only by the remaining directors in office, even if only one director remains in office; · that directors may only be removed for “cause” and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of our outstanding common stock; · that the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the voting power of our issued and outstanding common stock is required to approve any merger or consolidation with any other business entity that requires approval of our stockholders; · that stockholders can only act by written consent if such consent is signed by the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our outstanding common stock; and · provides that each of the provisions set for above may only be amended by the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our outstanding common stock. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under these provisions, if anyone becomes an “interested stockholder,” we may not enter into a “business combination” with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. For purposes of Section 203, “interested stockholder” means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in Section 203. Finally, we have a stockholder rights plan to ensure fair treatment in the event of an unsolicited takeover attempt regarding the Company to ensure that we and our Board of Directors have adequate time to review any unsolicited takeover attempt for adequacy and fairness. This plan, combined with each of the defensive measures listed above, could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company. These deterrents could adversely affect the price of our common stock and make it difficult to remove and replace members of our Board of Directors or management. The rights plan is set to expire on November 21, 2014; however, the rights plan will continue after our 2014 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, scheduled for May 23, 2014, only upon stockholder approval at such meeting. Knight Transportation, Inc.’s unsolicited takeover proposal was, and any future unsolicited offers may be, disruptive to our business. On September 26, 2013, Knight Transportation, Inc. (“Knight”) announced its unsolicited takeover proposal for our outstanding common stock. Responding to Knight’s unsolicited proposal, exploring the availability of alternative transactions that reflect our full intrinsic value and instituting legal action in connection with Knight’s tender offer created a significant distraction for our management team and required us to expend significant time and resources, and any future unsolicited proposals may lead to similar disruptions. Moreover, the hostile and unsolicited nature of the proposal may have further disrupted our business by causing uncertainty among current and potential employees, suppliers and customers, which could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and strategic initiatives and cause volatility in our stock price. These consequences, alone or in combination, may have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, we have entered into a retention bonus plan and a change in control/severance plan with certain of our officers, including our named executive officers, and members of our management team. The participants of these retention and change in control arrangements may be entitled to severance payments and benefits upon a termination of their employment by us without cause or by them for good reason in connection with a change of control of the Company (each as defined in the applicable plan). These retention and change in control arrangements may not be adequate to allow us to retain critical employees during a time when a change in control is being proposed or is imminent. The legal action we instituted in connection with Knight's unsolicited offer settled on February 4, 2014, pursuant to which Knight entered into a voting agreement and a standstill agreement with us. While this resolved the uncertainty with respect to Knight’s unsolicited offer, any future takeover attempt could have a disruptive impact on our business. We face various risks associated with stockholder activists. Activist stockholders have advocated for certain changes at the Company. Such activist stockholders or potential stockholders may attempt to gain additional representation on or control of our Board of Directors, the possibility of which may create uncertainty regarding our future. These perceived uncertainties may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel, raise customer concerns, or cause volatility in our stock. A potential proxy contest would be disruptive to our operations and cause us to incur substantial costs. The SEC has proposed to give stockholders the ability to include their director nominees and their proposals relating to a stockholder nomination process in our proxy materials, which would make it easier for activists to nominate directors to our Board of Directors. The SEC's proposed rule was struck down by a federal court in 2011. However, if the SEC is successful in implementing a similar rule in the future, we may face an increase in the number of stockholder nominees for election to our Board of Directors. Future proxy contests and the presence of additional activist stockholder nominees on our Board of Directors could interfere with our ability to execute our long-term turnaround plan and other strategic initiatives, be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations, and divert the attention of management and our employees. Additionally, we could be subjected to activist stockholder lawsuits. Such lawsuits are time-consuming and could require us to incur substantial legal fees and proxy costs in defending our position. Among other things, such lawsuits divert management's time and attention from operations and can also cause distractions among employees. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved written SEC staff comments regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 received 180 days or more before the end of the fiscal year to which this Annual Report on Form 10-K relates. 