Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties which could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 10 Our business is subject to economic, credit and business factors affecting the trucking industry that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The factors that have negatively affected us, and may do so in the future, include volatile fuel prices, excess capacity in the trucking industry, surpluses in the market for used equipment, higher interest rates, higher license and registration fees, increases in insurance premiums, higher self-insurance levels, increases in accidents and adverse claims and difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers and independent contractors. We are also affected by recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers’ business cycles. Economic conditions may adversely affect our customers and their ability to pay for our services. It is not possible to predict the effects of armed conflicts or terrorist attacks and subsequent events on the economy or on consumer confidence in the United States, or the impact, if any, on our future results of operations. There has been on-going concern over the credit markets and their effect on the economy. If the economy and credit markets weaken or more restrictive regulatory changes implemented, our business, financial results, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, especially if consumer confidence declines and domestic spending decreases. Additionally, the stresses in the credit market have caused uncertainty in the equity markets. Although some stability has returned to the equity markets, there still exists economic uncertainty, and that could cause the market price of our securities to be volatile. If the credit markets continue to erode, we also may not be able to access our current sources of credit and our lenders may not have the capital to fund those sources. We may need to incur additional indebtedness or issue debt or equity securities in the future to refinance existing debt, fund working capital requirements, make investments, or for general corporate purposes. As a result of contractions in the credit market, as well as other economic trends in the credit market industry, we may not be able to secure financing for future activities on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our Amended and Restated Senior Credit Facility matures on September 1, 2010. Accordingly, during the quarter ended September 30, 2009, we reclassified that debt from long-term to short-term. The proposed new facility has materially higher spreads than our current spreads due to widely reported dislocations in the credit markets. We have a term sheet in place and are now working on definitive documents. If we are not successful in finalizing the definitive documents or obtaining financing because we are unable to access the capital markets on financially economical or feasible terms, it could impact our ability to provide services to our customers and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial results, current operations, results of operations, and potential investments. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry, and our business may suffer if we are unable to adequately address downward pricing pressures and other factors that may adversely affect our ability to compete with other carriers. Numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability. These factors include: · We compete with many other truckload carriers of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with less-than-truckload carriers and railroads, some of which have more equipment or greater capital resources, or other competitive advantages. · Some of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates, maintain our margins or maintain growth in our business. · Many customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting so-called “core carriers” as approved service providers, and in some instances we may not be selected. · Many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some of our business to competitors. · The trend toward consolidation in the trucking industry may create large carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages relating to their size, and we may have difficulty competing with these larger carriers. · Advances in technology require increased investments to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher freight rates to cover the cost of these investments. 11 · Competition from internet-based and other logistics and freight brokerage companies may adversely affect our customer relationships and freight rates. · Economies of scale that may be passed on to smaller carriers by procurement aggregation providers may improve their ability to compete with us. Ongoing insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings. If the number or severity of claims increases or if the costs associated with claims otherwise increase, our operating results will be adversely affected. The time that such costs are incurred may significantly impact our operating results for a particular quarter, as compared to the comparable quarter in the prior year. In addition, if we were to lose our ability to self-insure for any significant period of time, our insurance costs would materially increase and we could experience difficulty in obtaining adequate levels of coverage. We could experience increases in our insurance premiums in the future if we have an increase in coverage, a reduction in our self-retention level or if our claims experience deteriorates. If our insurance or claims expense increases, and we are unable to offset the increase with higher freight rates, our earnings could be materially and adversely affected. We have significant ongoing capital requirements that could affect our profitability if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations. The trucking industry is very capital intensive. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations in the future, we may have to limit our growth, enter into additional financing arrangements or operate our revenue equipment for longer periods, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We depend on the proper functioning and availability of our information systems. We depend on the proper functioning and availability of our communications and data processing systems in operating our business. Our information systems are protected through physical and software safeguards. However, they are still vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins and similar events. We do not have a formal catastrophic disaster recovery plan or a fully redundant alternate processing capability. If any of our critical information systems fail or become otherwise unavailable, we would have to perform the functions manually, which could temporarily impact our ability to manage our fleet efficiently, to respond to customers’ requests effectively, to maintain billing and other records reliably and to bill for services accurately or in a timely manner. Our business interruption insurance may be inadequate to protect us in the event of a catastrophe. Any system failure, security breach or other damage could interrupt or delay our operations, damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have begun a multi-year process to migrate our legacy mainframe platform and internally developed software applications to server-based platforms. We will purchase off-the-shelf products for our core software needs, and develop value-added decision-support software applications internally. Any delays, complications or additional costs associated with, or the failure of, this project could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We depend on our major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from our major customers. For fiscal year 2009, our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 32% of our revenue, our top five customers accounted for approximately 20% of our revenue and our largest customer accounted for approximately 4% of our revenue. Generally, we do not have long-term contracts with our major customers and we cannot assure you that our customer relationships will continue as presently in effect. A reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we are unable to retain our key executives, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. We are dependent upon the services of our executive management team. We do not maintain key-person life insurance on any members of our management team. The loss of their services could have a material adverse effect on our operations and future profitability. We must continue to develop and retain a core group of managers if we are to realize our goal of expanding our operations, improve our earnings consistency and position the Company for long-term revenue growth. 12 We operate in a highly regulated industry and increased costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The DOT and various state agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing such activities as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety, insurance requirements and financial reporting. We may also become subject to new or more restrictive regulations relating to fuel emissions and ergonomics. Our Canadian business activities are subject to similar requirements imposed by the laws and regulations of Canada and its provincial laws and regulations. Compliance with such regulations could substantially reduce equipment productivity, and the costs of compliance could increase our operating expenses. Our employee drivers and independent contractors also must comply with the safety and fitness regulations promulgated by the DOT, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours of service. The Transportation Security Administration of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security now require all drivers who haul hazardous materials to undergo background checks by the Federal Bureau of Investigation upon renewal of their licenses. While we have historically required all of our drivers to obtain this qualification, these regulations could reduce the availability of qualified drivers, which could require us to adjust our driver compensation package, limit the growth of our fleet or let equipment sit idle. These regulations could also complicate the process of matching available equipment with shipments that include hazardous materials, thereby increasing the time it takes us to respond to customer orders and increasing our empty miles. In July 2007, a federal appeals court vacated portions of the 2005 Hours-of-Service Rules. Two of the key portions that were vacated include the expansion of the driving day from 10 hours to 11 hours, and the “34-hour restart,” which allowed drivers to restart calculations of the weekly on-duty time limits after the driver had at least 34 consecutive hours off duty. The court indicated that, in addition to other reasons, it vacated these two portions of the 2005 Rules because FMCSA failed to provide adequate data supporting its decision to increase the driving day and provide for the 34-hour restart. In November 2008, following the submission of additional data by FMCSA and a series of appeals and related court rulings, FMCSA published its Final Rule, which retains the 11 hour driving day and the 34-hour restart. However, advocacy groups have continued to challenge the Final Rule and on October 26, 2009, the FMCSA agreed pursuant to a settlement agreement with certain advocacy groups that the Final Rule on drivers’ hours of service would not take effect pending the publication of a new Notice of Proposed Rulemaking. Under the settlement agreement, the FMCSA will submit the draft Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to the Office of Management and Budget by July 2010 and the FMCSA will issue a Final Rule by 2012. The current hours of service rules, adopted in 2005, will remain in effect during the rulemaking proceedings. In December of 2009, the FMCSA issued a notice soliciting data and research information for the FMCSA’s consideration in drafting the forthcoming Notice of Proposed Rulemaking. We are unable to predict what form the new hours of service rules may take, how a court may rule on such challenges to such rules and to what extent the FMCSA might attempt to materially revise the rules under the current presidential administration. On the whole, however, we believe that any modifications to the current rules will decrease productivity and cause some loss of efficiency, as drivers and shippers may need to be retrained, computer programming may require modifications, additional drivers may need to be employed or engaged, additional equipment may need to be acquired, and some shipping lanes may need to be reconfigured. We are also unable to predict the effect of any new rules that might be proposed if the Final Rule is stricken by a court, but any such proposed rules could increase costs in our industry or decrease productivity. Failures to comply with DOT safety regulations or downgrades in our safety rating could have a material adverse impact on our operations or financial condition. A downgrade in our safety rating could cause us to lose the ability to self-insure. The loss of our ability to self-insure for any significant period of time would materially increase our insurance costs. In addition, we may experience difficulty in obtaining adequate levels of coverage in that event. On December 26, 2007, FMCSA published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in the Federal Register regarding minimum requirements for entry level driver training. Under the 2007 proposed rule, a commercial driver’s license applicant would be required to present a valid driver training certificate obtained from an accredited institution or program. Entry-level drivers applying for a Class A commercial driver’s license would be required to complete a minimum of 120 hours of training, consisting of 76 classroom hours and 44 driving hours. The current regulations do not require a minimum number of training hours and require only classroom education. Drivers who obtain their first commercial driver’s license during the three-year period after FMCSA issues a Final Rule would be exempt. FMCSA has not established a deadline for issuing the Final Rule, but the comment period expired on May 23, 2008. If the rule is approved as written in the 2007 Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, this rule could materially impact the number of potential new drivers entering the industry and, accordingly, negatively impact our results of operations. 13 The FMCSA’s new Comprehensive Safety Analysis 2010 initiative introduces a new enforcement and compliance model, which implements driver standards in addition to the Company standards currently in place. Under the new regulations, the methodology for determining a carrier’s DOT safety rating will be expanded to include the on-road safety performance of the carrier’s drivers. Implementation of the new regulation is scheduled for July 1, 2010, and enforcement will begin in late 2010. As a result of these new regulations, including the expanded methodology for determining a carrier's DOT safety rating, there may be an adverse effect on our DOT safety rating. A conditional or unsatisfactory DOT safety rating could adversely affect our business, because some of our customer contracts may require a satisfactory DOT safety rating. The new regulations may also result in a reduced number of eligible drivers. If current or potential drivers are eliminated due to the Comprehensive Safety Analysis 2010 initiative, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified drivers. Decreases in the availability of new tractors and trailers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. From time to time, some tractor and trailer vendors have reduced their manufacturing output due, for example, to lower demand for their products in economic downturns or a shortage of component parts. As conditions changed, some of those vendors have had difficulty fulfilling the increased demand for new equipment. There have been periods when we were unable to purchase as much new revenue equipment as we needed to sustain our desired growth rate and to maintain a late-model fleet. We may experience similar difficulties in future periods. Also, to meet the more restrictive Environmental Protection Agency emissions standards in 2007 and in January 2010, vendors have had to introduce new engine technology. An inability to continue to obtain an adequate supply of new tractors or trailers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in the price or availability of fuel, hedging activities, the volume and terms of diesel fuel purchase commitments, surcharge collection and surcharge policies approved by customers may increase our costs of operation, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Fuel is one of our largest operating expenses. Diesel fuel prices fluctuate greatly due to economic, political, and other factors beyond our control. Fuel also is subject to regional pricing differences. From time-to-time we may use hedging contracts and volume purchase arrangements to attempt to limit the effect of price fluctuations. If we do hedge, we may be forced to make cash payments under the hedging arrangements. We use a fuel surcharge program to recapture a portion of the increases in fuel prices over a base rate negotiated with our customers. Our fuel surcharge program does not protect us from full effect of increases in fuel prices. The terms of each customer’s fuel surcharge program vary and certain customers have sought to modify the terms of their fuel surcharge programs to minimize recoverability for fuel price increases. Over the past year, the failure to recover fuel price increases resulted in a materially negative impact to our results of operations. A failure to improve our fuel price protection through these measures, further increases in fuel prices, or a shortage of diesel fuel, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Increases in driver compensation or difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers could adversely affect our profitability. Like many truckload carriers, we experience substantial difficulty in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified drivers, including independent contractors. In addition, due in part to current economic conditions, including the higher cost of fuel, insurance, and tractors, the available pool of independent contractor drivers has been declining. Regulatory requirements, including the new Comprehensive Safety Analysis 2010 initiative, could also reduce the number of eligible drivers. Because of the shortage of qualified drivers and intense competition for drivers from other trucking companies, we expect to continue to face difficulty increasing the number of our drivers, including independent contractor drivers. The compensation we offer our drivers and independent contractors is subject to market conditions, and we may find it necessary to continue to increase driver and independent contractor compensation in future periods. In addition, we and our industry suffer from a high driver turnover rate. Our high turnover rate requires us to continually recruit a substantial number of drivers in order to operate existing revenue equipment. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain a sufficient number of drivers, we could be required to adjust our compensation packages, let tractors sit idle, or operate with fewer tractors and face difficulty meeting shipper demands, all of which would adversely affect our growth and profitability. 14 Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the hauling and handling of hazardous materials, fuel storage tanks, air emissions from our vehicles and facilities, engine idling, and discharge and retention of storm water. We operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination may have occurred. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. We also maintain above-ground bulk fuel storage tanks and fueling islands at five of our facilities. A small percentage of our freight consists of low-grade hazardous substances, which subjects us to a wide array of regulations. Although we have instituted programs to monitor and control environmental risks and promote compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, if we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, if there are releases of hazardous substances we transport, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to liabilities, including substantial fines or penalties or civil and criminal liability, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. Regulations limiting exhaust emissions became effective in 2002 and became progressively more restrictive in 2007 and January 2010. Engines manufactured after October 2002 generally cost more, produce lower fuel mileage, and require additional maintenance compared with earlier models. All of our tractors are equipped with these engines. We expect additional cost increases and possibly degradation in fuel mileage from the 2010 engines. These adverse effects, combined with the uncertainty as to the reliability of the newly designed diesel engines and the residual values of these vehicles, could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business or operations. If we cannot effectively manage the challenges associated with doing business internationally, our revenues and profitability may suffer. An integral component of our operations is the business we conduct in Mexico and, to a lesser extent Canada, and we are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in foreign currencies, changes in the economic strength of the countries in which we do business, difficulties in enforcing contractual obligations and intellectual property rights, burdens of complying with a wide variety of international and United States export and import laws, and social, political, and economic instability. Additional risks associated with our foreign operations, including restrictive trade policies and imposition of duties, taxes, or government royalties by foreign governments, are present but largely mitigated by the terms of NAFTA. Seasonality and the impact of weather affect our operations and profitability. Our tractor productivity decreases during the winter season because inclement weather impedes operations, and some shippers reduce their shipments after the winter holiday season. Revenue can also be affected by bad weather and holidays, since revenue is directly related to available working days of shippers. At the same time, operating expenses increase, with fuel efficiency declining because of engine idling and harsh weather creating higher accident frequency, increased claims, and more equipment repairs. We could also suffer short-term impacts from weather-related events such as hurricanes, blizzards, ice storms, and floods that could harm our results or make our results more volatile. Increased prices, reduced productivity, and restricted availability of new revenue equipment may adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. We are subject to risk with respect to prices for new tractors. Prices may increase, for among other reasons, due to government regulations applicable to newly manufactured tractors and diesel engines and due to commodity prices and pricing power among equipment manufacturers. More restrictive Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, emissions standards that began in 2002 with additional new requirements implemented in 2007 and January 2010 have required vendors to introduce new engines. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to continue to obtain an adequate supply of new tractors and trailers. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 60% of our tractor fleet was comprised of tractors with engines that met the EPA mandated clean air standards that became effective January 1, 2007. Tractors that meet the 2007 and 2010 standards are more expensive than non-compliant tractors, and we expect to continue to pay increased prices for equipment as we continue to increase the percentage of our fleet that meets the EPA mandated clean air standards. In addition, a decreased demand for used revenue equipment could adversely affect our business and operating results. We rely on the sale and trade-in of used revenue equipment to partially offset the cost of new revenue equipment. When the supply of used revenue equipment exceeds the demand for used revenue equipment, as it did during 2009, the general market value of used revenue equipment decreases. Should this current condition continue, it would increase our capital expenditures for new revenue equipment, decrease our gains on sale of revenue equipment, or increase our maintenance costs if management decides to extend the use of revenue equipment in a depressed market, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 15 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved written SEC staff comments regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 received 180 days or more before the end of the fiscal year to which this annual report on Form 10-K relates. Item 