Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our industry is cyclical and highly sensitive to macroeconomic conditions; as a result, our industry is currently experiencing a downturn which, if sustained, will materially and adversely affect our business, liquidity and results of operations. The nonresidential construction industry is highly sensitive to national and regional macroeconomic conditions. The United States economy is currently undergoing a period of slowdown and unprecedented volatility, which is having an adverse effect on our business. In assessing the state of the metal construction market, we rely upon various industry associations, third-party research, and various government reports such as industrial production and capacity utilization. One such industry association is the Metal Building Manufacturers Association (“MBMA”), which provides summary member sales information and promotes the design and construction of metal buildings and metal roofing systems. Another is McGraw-Hill Construction Information Group, which we review for reports of actual and forecasted growth in various construction related industries, including the overall nonresidential construction market. McGraw-Hill Construction’s nonresidential construction forecast for calendar 2010, published in October 2010, indicates an expected reduction of 18% in square footage and a decrease of 10% in dollar value as compared to the prior calendar year. In 2011, the forecast is expected to increase, with an increase of 4% in dollar value in 2011 compared to 2010. Additionally, we review the American Institute of Architects’ (“AIA”) survey for inquiry and billing activity for the industrial, commercial and institutional sectors. AIA’s Architectural Billing Index published for October 2010 indicated that both billings levels and inquiries were modestly positive compared to October 2009. Continued uncertainty about current economic conditions has had a negative effect on our business, and will continue to pose a risk to our business as our customers may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on the demand for our products. Other factors that could influence demand include fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the nonresidential real estate markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit and other macroeconomic factors. From time to time, our industry has also been adversely affected in various parts of the country by declines in nonresidential construction starts, including but not limited to, high vacancy rates, changes in tax laws affecting the real estate industry, high interest rates and the unavailability of financing. Sales of our products may be adversely affected by continued weakness in demand for our products within particular customer groups, or a continued decline in the general construction industry or particular geographic regions. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. We cannot predict the ultimate severity or length of the current economic crisis, or the timing or severity of future economic or industry downturns. A prolonged economic downturn, particularly in states where many of our sales are made, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, including potential asset impairments. We may not be able to service our debt, obtain future financing or may be limited operationally. The debt that we carry may have important consequences to us, including the following: • Our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or additional financing may not be available on favorable terms; • We must use a portion of our cash flow to pay the principal and interest on our debt. These payments reduce the funds that would otherwise be available for our operations and future business opportunities; • A substantial decrease in our net operating cash flows could make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements and force us to modify our operations; and • We may be more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy generally. 17 Table of Contents If we cannot service our debt, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying acquisitions and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. We can give you no assurance that we can do any of these things on satisfactory terms or at all. Subject to restrictions in our Amended Credit Agreement and ABL Facility, we may incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance acquisitions, capital expenditures or for other purposes. Restrictive covenants in the Amended Credit Agreement and the ABL Facility may adversely affect us. We must comply with operating and financing restrictions in the Amended Credit Agreement and the ABL Facility. We may also have similar restrictions with any future debt. These restrictions affect, and in many respects limit or prevent us from: • incurring additional indebtedness; • making restricted payments, including dividends or other distributions; • incurring liens; • making investments, including joint venture investments; • selling assets; • repurchasing our debt and our capital stock; and • merging or consolidating with or into other companies or sell substantially all our assets. We are required to make mandatory payments under the Amended Credit Agreement upon the occurrence of certain events, including the sale of assets and the issuance of debt, in each case subject to certain limitations and conditions set forth in our Amended Credit Agreement. The Amended Credit Agreement also requires us, beginning with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, to satisfy set financial tests relating to our leverage ratio, provided that these financial tests will not apply to any fiscal quarter in which certain amortization targets are met. However, if we continue to make quarterly prepayments of 0.25% of the then outstanding principal balance, based on our prepayments made through October 31, 2010, the leverage ratio covenant has been effectively deferred until at least the third quarter of fiscal 2012. On December 3, 2010, we made an optional prepayment in the amount of $2.4 million which effectively deferred our leverage ratio covenant until at least the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. Under the ABL Facility, a “Dominion Event” occurs if either an event of default is continuing or excess availability falls below certain levels, during which period, and for certain periods thereafter, the administrative agent may apply all amounts in the Company’s concentration account to the repayment of the loans outstanding under the ABL Facility, subject to an intercreditor agreement between the lenders under the Amended Credit Agreement and the ABL Facility. In addition, during a Dominion Event, we are required to make mandatory payments on the ABL Facility upon the occurrence of certain events, including the sale of assets and the issuance of debt, in each case subject to certain limitations and conditions set forth in the ABL Facility. If excess availability under the ABL Facility falls below certain levels, our asset-based loan facility also requires us to satisfy set financial tests relating to our fixed charge coverage ratio. These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs or otherwise could restrict our activities. In addition, under certain circumstances and subject to the limitations set forth in the Amended Credit Agreement, the Amended Credit Agreement requires us to pay down our term loan to the extent we generate positive cash flow each fiscal year. These restrictions could also adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. 18 Table of Contents We may recognize goodwill or other intangible asset impairment charges. Future triggering events, such as declines in our cash flow projections, may cause impairments of our goodwill or intangible assets based on factors such as our stock price, projected cash flows, assumptions used, control premiums or other variables. We completed our annual assessment of the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 and determined that no impairments of our goodwill or long-lived intangibles were required. Our businesses are seasonal, and our results of operations during our first two fiscal quarters may be adversely affected by seasonality. The metal coil coating, metal components and engineered building systems businesses, and the construction industry in general, are seasonal in nature. Sales normally are lower in the first calendar quarter of each year compared to the other three quarters because of unfavorable weather conditions for construction and typical business planning cycles affecting construction. This seasonality adversely affects our results of operations for the first two fiscal quarters. Prolonged severe weather conditions can delay construction projects and otherwise adversely affect our business. Price volatility and supply constraints in the steel market could prevent us from meeting delivery schedules to our customers or reduce our profit margins. Our business is heavily dependent on the price and supply of steel. The steel industry is highly cyclical in nature, and steel prices have been volatile in recent years and may remain volatile in the future. Steel prices are influenced by numerous factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions domestically and internationally, the availability of raw materials, competition, labor costs, freight and transportation costs, production costs, import duties and other trade restrictions. Rapidly declining demand for steel due to the effects of the credit crisis and global economic slowdown on the construction, automotive and industrial markets has resulted in many steel manufacturers around the world cutting production by closing plants and furloughing workers throughout 2009. Steel suppliers such as US Steel and Arcelor Mittal are among these manufacturers who have cut production and some steel suppliers have been cautious to increase capacity in 2010 during the slow economic recovery. With such production cuts, a sudden increase in demand could affect our ability to purchase steel and result in rapidly increasing steel prices. We do not have any long-term contracts for the purchase of steel and normally do not maintain an inventory of steel in excess of our current production requirements. However, from time to time, we may purchase steel in advance of announced steel price increases. In addition, it is our current practice to purchase all consignment inventory that remains in consignment after an agreed term. Therefore, our inventory may increase if demand for our products declines. We can give you no assurance that steel will remain available or that prices will not continue to be volatile. While most of our contracts have escalation clauses that allow us, under certain circumstances, to pass along all or a portion of increases in the price of steel after the date of the contract but prior to delivery, we may, for competitive or other reasons, not be able to pass such price increases along. If the available supply of steel declines, we could experience price increases that we are not able to pass on to our customers, a deterioration of service from our suppliers or interruptions or delays that may cause us not to meet delivery schedules to our customers. Any of these problems could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For more information about steel pricing trends in recent years, see “Item 1. Business — Raw Materials” and “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about market Risk — Steel Prices.” We rely on a few major suppliers for our supply of steel, which makes us more vulnerable to supply constraints and pricing pressure, as well as the financial condition of those suppliers. We rely on a few major suppliers for our supply of steel and may be adversely affected by the bankruptcy, financial condition or other factors affecting those suppliers. During fiscal 2010, we purchased approximately 36% of our steel requirements from two vendors in the United States. No other vendor 19 Table of Contents accounted for over 10% of our steel requirements during fiscal 2010. Due to unfavorable market conditions and our inventory supply requirements during fiscal 2010, we purchased insignificant amounts of steel from foreign suppliers. Limiting purchases to domestic suppliers further reduces our available steel supply base. Therefore, production cutbacks or a prolonged labor strike against one or more of our principal domestic suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Furthermore, if one or more of our current suppliers is unable for financial or any other reason to continue in business or to produce steel sufficient to meet our requirements, essential supply of our primary raw materials could be temporarily interrupted, and our business could be adversely affected. Failure to retain or replace key personnel could hurt our operations. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the efforts, contributions and abilities of our senior management, plant managers and other highly skilled personnel, including our sales executives. These executives and managers have many accumulated years of experience in our industry and have developed personal relationships with our customers that are important to our business. If we do not retain the services of our key personnel or if we fail to adequately plan for the succession of such individuals, our customer relationships, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. If we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights or if our intellectual property rights become obsolete, our competitive position could be adversely affected. We utilize a variety of intellectual property rights in our services. We have a number of United States patents, pending patent applications and other proprietary rights, including those relating to metal roofing systems, metal overhead doors, our pier and header system, our Long Bay® System and our building estimating and design system. We also have several registered trademarks and pending registrations in the United States. We view our portfolio of process and design technologies as one of our competitive strengths. We may not be able to successfully preserve these intellectual property rights in the future and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged. If we are unable to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights, or if there are any successful intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings against us, our business and revenue could be materially and adversely affected. We incur costs to comply with environmental laws and have liabilities for environmental investigations, cleanups and claims. Because we emit and discharge pollutants into the environment, own and operate real property that has historically been used for industrial purposes, and generate and handle hazardous substances and waste, we incur costs and liabilities to comply with environmental laws and regulations. We may incur significant additional costs as those laws and regulations or their enforcement change in the future, if there is a release of hazardous substances into the environment or if a historical release of hazardous substances or other contamination is identified. The operations of our manufacturing facilities are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These include, for example, (i) the federal Clean Air Act and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to air emissions, (ii) the federal RCRA and comparable state laws that impose requirements for the storage, treatment, handling and disposal of waste from our facilities and (iii) the CERCLA and comparable state laws that impose liability for the investigation and cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent waste for disposal. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of investigative or remedial requirements, personal injury, property or natural resource damages claims and the issuance of orders enjoining current or future operations, or the denial or revocation of permits or other authorizations. For more information about the effect of environmental laws and regulations on our business, see “Item 1. Business — Environmental Matters.” 20 Table of Contents The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete with all other alternative methods of building construction, which may be viewed as more traditional, more aesthetically pleasing or having other advantages over our products. In addition, competition in the metal components and metal buildings markets of the building industry and in the metal coil coating segment is intense. It is based primarily on: • quality; • service; • on-time delivery; • ability to provide added value in the design and engineering of buildings; • price; • speed of construction in buildings and components; and • personal relationships with customers. We compete with a number of other manufacturers of metal components and engineered building systems and providers of coil coating services ranging from small local firms to large national firms. In addition, we and other manufacturers of metal components and engineered building systems compete with alternative methods of building construction. If these alternative building methods compete successfully against us, such competition could adversely affect us. In addition, several of our competitors have recently been acquired by steel producers. Competitors owned by steel producers may have a competitive advantage on raw materials that we do not enjoy. Steel producers may prioritize deliveries of raw materials to such competitors or provide them with more favorable pricing, both of which could enable them to offer products to customers at lower prices or accelerated delivery schedules. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is subject to significant fluctuations in response to the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in quarterly operating results; • deviations in our earnings from publicly disclosed forward-looking guidance; • declines in our revenues; • changes in earnings estimates by analysts; • our announcements of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; • general conditions in the metal components and engineered building systems industries; • uncertainty about current global economic conditions; • fluctuations in stock market price and volume; and • other general economic conditions. During fiscal 2010, our stock price on the New York Stock Exchange ranged from a high of approximately $15.95 per share to a low of approximately $8.09 per share. In recent years, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price for many companies in industries similar to ours. Some of these fluctuations have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. These market fluctuations may decrease the market price of our common stock in the future. 21 Table of Contents Acquisitions may be unsuccessful if we incorrectly predict operating results or are unable to identify and complete future acquisitions and integrate acquired assets or businesses. We have a history of expansion through acquisitions, and we believe that if our industry continues to consolidate, our future success may depend, in part, on our ability to successfully complete acquisitions. Growing through acquisitions and managing that growth will require us to continue to invest in operational, financial and management information systems and to attract, retain, motivate and effectively manage our employees. Pursuing and integrating acquisitions, including our acquisition of RCC, involves a number of risks, including: • the risk of incorrect assumptions or estimates regarding the future results of the acquired business or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring the business; • diversion of management’s attention from existing operations; • unexpected losses of key employees, customers and suppliers of the acquired business; • integrating the financial, technological and management standards, processes, procedures and controls of the acquired business with those of our existing operations; and • increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. Although the majority of our growth strategy is organic in nature, if we do pursue opportunistic acquisitions, we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in identifying or completing any acquisitions or that any businesses or assets that we are able to acquire will be successfully integrated into our existing business. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that any announcement or consummation of an acquisition would have on the trading prices of our securities. Acquisitions subjects us to numerous risks that could adversely affect our results of operations. If we pursue further acquisitions, depending on conditions in the acquisition market, it may be difficult or impossible for us to identify businesses or operations for acquisition, or we may not be able to make acquisitions on terms that we consider economically acceptable. Even if we are able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities, our acquisition strategy depends upon, among other things, our ability to obtain financing and, in some cases, regulatory approvals, including under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act. Our incurrence of additional debt, contingent liabilities and expenses in connection with our acquisition of RCC, or in connection with any future acquisitions, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our financial position and results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period based on whether significant acquisitions are completed in particular periods. Competition for acquisitions is intense and may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. The Convertible Preferred Stock will be dilutive to our stockholders. The Convertible Preferred Stock accrues dividends, which may be paid in cash or in-kind. If dividends on the Convertible Preferred Stock are paid in-kind, they will dilute the ownership interest of our stockholders. In addition, the dividend rate of the Convertible Preferred Stock will increase upon the occurrence of certain events which constitute defaults under the terms of the Convertible Preferred Stock, which may cause further dilution. Furthermore, the Convertible Preferred Stock also provides for anti-dilution rights, which may dilute the ownership interest of stockholders in the future. Dividends on the Convertible Preferred Stock are payable, on a cumulative daily basis, as and if declared by the our board of directors, at a rate per annum of 12% of the sum of the liquidation preference of $1,000 per Preferred Share plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon or at a rate per annum of 8% of the sum of the liquidation preference of $1,000 per Preferred Share plus any accrued and unpaid dividends thereon if paid in cash on the dividend declaration date on which such dividends would otherwise compound. If dividends are not declared in cash or in kind, such dividends compound on the dividend declaration date. If dividends on the Convertible Preferred Stock are paid in-kind, it will dilute the ownership interest of stockholders. 22 Table of Contents The dividend rate will increase by 3% per annum above the rates described in the preceding paragraph upon and during certain defaults specified in the Certificate of Designations of the Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Certificate of Designations”) and, after June 30, 2011, will increase by up to 6% per annum above the rates described in the preceding paragraph upon and during any such specified default involving the Company’s failure to have a number of authorized and unissued shares of Common Stock reserved and available sufficient for the conversion of all outstanding Preferred Shares. The Company currently has sufficient authorized, unissued and reserved shares of Common Stock. On the Dividend Payment Committee date, we have the right to choose whether dividends are paid in cash or in-kind. However, the first dividend payment which was scheduled to be paid on December 15, 2009, was required to be paid in cash by the Certificate of Designations but could not be paid in cash based on the terms of our Amended Credit Agreement and Asset-Based Lending Facility (“ABL Facility”) which restricts our ability to pay cash dividends until the first quarter of fiscal 2011 under the Amended Credit Agreement and until October 20, 2010 under the ABL Facility. As a result, the dividend for the period up to the December 15, 2009 dividend declaration date compounded at a rate of 12% per annum. In addition to any dividends declared and paid as described in the preceding paragraphs, holders of the outstanding Preferred Shares also have the right to participate equally and ratably, on an as-converted basis, with the holders of shares of Common Stock in all cash dividends and distributions paid on the Common Stock. If, at any time after the 30-month anniversary of the Closing Date, the trading price of the Common Stock exceeds 200% of the initial conversion price of the Convertible Preferred Stock ($6.3740, as adjusted for any stock dividends, splits, combinations or similar events) for each of 20 consecutive trading days (the “Dividend Rate Reduction Event”), the dividend rate (excluding any applicable adjustments as a result of a default) will become 0.00%. However, this does not preclude the payment of default dividends after the 30-month anniversary of the Closing Date. The conversion price of the Convertible Preferred Stock is subject to adjustment, including if the Company issues common stock or other securities below the then-current market price or, during the first three years after October 20, 2009, below the then-current conversion price. Adjustments to the conversion price will dilute the ownership interest of stockholders. In connection with the Equity Investment, we entered into a stockholders agreement with the CD&R Funds pursuant to which the CD&R Funds have substantial governance and other rights and setting forth certain terms and conditions regarding the Equity Investment and the ownership of the CD&R Funds’ shares of Convertible Preferred Stock. Pursuant to the stockholders agreement with the CD&R Funds, subject to certain ownership and other requirements and conditions, the CD&R Funds have the right to appoint a majority of directors to our board of directors, including the “Lead Director” or Chairman of the Executive Committee of our board of directors, and have consent rights over a variety of significant corporate and financing matters, including, subject to certain customary exceptions and specified baskets, sales and acquisitions of assets, issuances and redemptions of equity, incurrence of debt, the declaration or payment of extraordinary distributions or dividends and changes to the Company’s line of business. In addition, the CD&R Funds are granted subscription rights under the terms and conditions of the stockholders agreement. Further, effective as of the closing of the Equity Investment, the Company has taken all corporate action and filed all election notices or other documentation with the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) necessary to elect to take advantage of the exemptions to the requirements of sections 303A.01, 303A.04 and 303A.05 of the NYSE Listed Company Manual and, for so long as we qualify as a “controlled company” within the meaning set forth in the NYSE Listed Company Manual or any similar provision in the rules of a stock exchange on which the securities of the Company are quoted or listed for trading, we have agreed to use our reasonable best efforts to take advantage of the exemptions therein. Such exemptions exempt us from compliance with the NYSE’s requirements for companies listed on the NYSE to have (1) a majority of independent directors, (2) a nominating/corporate governance committee and a compensation committee, in 23 Table of Contents each case, composed entirely of independent directors, and (3) charters for the nominating/corporate governance committee and the compensation committee, in each case, addressing certain specified matters. The Convertible Preferred Stock issued in connection with the Equity Investment has substantial rights and ranks senior to the common stock. Shares of our common stock rank junior as to dividend rights, redemption payments and rights (including as to distribution of assets) in any liquidation, dissolution, or winding-up of the affairs of the Company and otherwise to the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock issued to the CD&R Funds in connection with the Equity Investment. The terms of the Convertible Preferred Stock entitle the holders thereof to vote on an as-converted basis (without taking into account any limitations on convertibility that may then be applicable) with the holders of common stock. The CD&R Funds have a majority voting position and holders of common stock are in the minority. In addition, certain actions by the Company, including, upon the occurrence of certain specified defaults, the adoption of an annual budget, the hiring and firing, or the changing of the compensation, of executive officers and the commitment, resolution or agreement to effect any business combination, among others, require the prior affirmative vote or written consent of the holders representing at least a majority of the then-outstanding shares of Convertible Preferred Stock, voting together as a separate class. This level of control, together with the CD&R Funds’ rights under the stockholders agreement, could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to our business or our stockholders. Furthermore, the terms of the Convertible Preferred Stock provide for anti-dilution rights, which may dilute the ownership interest of stockholders in the future, and change of control redemption rights, which may entitle the holders of Convertible Preferred Stock to receive higher value for their shares of Convertible Preferred Stock than the shares of common stock would receive in the event of a change of control. In addition, the terms of the Convertible Preferred Stock also provide that the CD&R Funds participate in common stock dividends, receive preferred dividends and have preferential rights in liquidation, including make-whole rights. Increases in energy prices will increase our operating costs, and we may be unable to pass all these increases on to our customers in the form of higher prices for our products. Increases in energy prices will increase our operating costs and may reduce our profitability and cash flows if we are unable to pass all the increases on to our customers. We use energy in the manufacture and transport of our products. In particular, our manufacturing plants use considerable electricity and natural gas. Consequently, our operating costs typically increase if energy costs rise. During periods of higher energy costs, we may not be able to recover our operating cost increases through price increases without reducing demand for our products. To the extent we are not able to recover these cost increases through price increases or otherwise, our profitability and cash flow will be adversely impacted. We partially hedge our exposure to higher prices via fixed forward positions. The adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our operating costs or reduce demand for our products. More stringent laws and regulations relating to climate change and GHGs may be adopted in the future and could cause us to incur additional operating costs or reduce the demand for our products. On December 15, 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, and other GHGs present an endangerment to public heath and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the federal Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, contributing to the warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climate changes. These findings allow the EPA to adopt and implement regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. The EPA has adopted regulations that would require a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and could trigger permit review for GHGs from certain stationary sources. In June 2010, EPA adopted the Prevention of Significant Deterioration and Title V Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule, which phases in permitting requirements for stationary sources of GHGs, beginning January 2, 2011. This rule “tailors” these permitting programs to apply to certain stationary 24 Table of Contents sources of GHG emissions in a multi-step process, with the largest sources first subject to permitting. In addition, EPA has issued regulations requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from certain, specified sources of GHG emission sources in the United States beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010, including large GHG gas emission sources. These requirements could increase the cost of doing business for us and our suppliers, including increasing the cost of steel, and adversely affect the demand for our products. In addition, both houses of Congress have actively considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, and more than one-third of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring either major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels to acquire and surrender emission allowances, with the number of allowances available for purchase reduced each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would impact our business, any new federal, regional or state restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide or other GHGs that may be imposed in areas in which we conduct business could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions on us and our suppliers. Such restrictions could potentially make our products more expensive and thus reduce demand for them, which could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and our business. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations, including affecting the supply of our raw materials. Breaches of our information system security measures could disrupt our internal operations. We are dependent upon information technology for the distribution of information internally and also to our customers and suppliers. This information technology is subject to theft, damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including but not limited to malicious computer viruses, security breaches and defects in design. Various measures have been implemented to manage our risks related to information system and network disruptions, but a system failure or breach of these measures could negatively impact our operations and financial results. Our operations are subject to hazards that may cause personal injury or property damage, thereby subjecting us to liabilities and possible losses, which may not be covered by insurance. Our workers are subject to the usual hazards associated with work in manufacturing environments. Operating hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, as well as damage to or destruction of business personal property, and possible environmental impairment. We are subject to either deductible or self-insured retention (SIR) amounts, per claim or occurrence, under our Property/Casualty insurance programs, as well as an individual stop-loss limit per claim under our group medical insurance plan. We maintain insurance coverage to transfer risk, with aggregate and per-occurrence limits and deductible or retention levels that we believe are consistent with industry practice. The transfer of risk through insurance cannot guarantee that coverage will be available for every loss or liability that we may incur in our operations. Exposures that could create insured (or uninsured) liabilities are difficult to assess and quantify due to unknown factors, including but not limited to injury frequency and severity, natural disasters, terrorism threats, third-party liability, and claims that are incurred but not reported (IBNR). Although we engage third-party actuarial professionals to assist us in determining our probable future loss exposure, it is possible that claims or costs could exceed our estimates or our insurance limits, or could be uninsurable. In such instances we might be required to use working capital to satisfy these losses rather than to maintain or expand our operations, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. 25 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. There are no unresolved staff comments outstanding with the Securities and Exchange Commission at this time. 