Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our businesses are cyclical, and we cannot predict the timing or severity of future economic or industry downturns. The nonresidential construction industry is highly sensitive to national and regional economic conditions. From time to time, it has been adversely affected in various parts of the country by unfavorable economic conditions, low use of manufacturing capacity, high vacancy rates, changes in tax laws affecting the real estate industry, high interest rates and the unavailability of financing. Sales of our products may be adversely affected by weakness in demand for our products within particular customer groups, or a recession in the general construction industry or particular geographic regions. We cannot predict the timing or severity of future economic or industry downturns. Any economic downturn, particularly in states where many of our sales are made, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our businesses are seasonal, and our results of operations during our first two fiscal quarters may be adversely affected by seasonality. The metal components, engineered building systems and metal coil coating businesses, and the construction industry in general, are seasonal in nature. Sales normally are lower in the first calendar quarter of each year compared to the other three quarters because of unfavorable weather conditions for construction and typical business planning cycles affecting construction. This seasonality adversely affects our results of operations for the first two fiscal quarters. Prolonged severe winter weather conditions can delay construction projects and otherwise adversely affect our business. Continued price volatility and supply constraints in the steel market could prevent us from meeting delivery schedules to our customers or reduce our profit margins. Our business is heavily dependent on the prices and supply of steel, which is the principal raw material used in our products. The steel industry is highly cyclical in nature, and steel prices have been volatile in recent years and may remain volatile in the future. Steel prices are influenced by numerous factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, competition, labor costs, production costs, import duties and other trade restrictions. Beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2004, there were unusually rapid and significant increases in steel prices and severe shortages in the steel industry due in part to increased demand from China’s expanding economy and high energy prices. Supply and prices from the domestic steel manufacturers and available foreign spot purchases began stabilizing at high relative volumes during our fourth fiscal quarter in 2004. Pricing increases for sheet, hot roll and structural steel abated during much of fiscal 2005. However, that abatement ended with steel price increases in October 2005. Overall, our weighted average cost of steel decreased in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004. We do not have any long-term contracts for the purchase of steel and normally do not maintain an inventory of steel in excess of our current production requirements. We can give you no assurance that steel will remain available or that prices will not continue to be volatile. While most of our contracts have escalation clauses that allow us, under certain circumstances, to pass along all or a portion of increases in the price of steel after the date of the contract but prior to delivery, we may, for competitive or other reasons, not be able to pass such price increases along. If the available supply of steel declines, we could experience price increases that we are not able to pass on to our customers, a deterioration of service from our suppliers or interruptions or delays that may cause us not to meet delivery schedules to our customers. Any of these problems could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For additional information about steel pricing trends in recent years, please see “Item 1. Business – Raw Materials.” 16 Table of Contents We rely on a few major suppliers for our supply of steel, which makes us more vulnerable to supply constraints and pricing pressure, as well as the financial condition of those suppliers; further consolidation in the steel industry may adversely affect us. We currently rely primarily on three steel suppliers - ISG/Mittal, U.S. Steel and Nucor. During fiscal 2005, we purchased a majority of our steel requirements from U.S. Steel and ISG/Mittal. In recent years, the steel industry has been characterized by adverse financial conditions and consolidation. Our primary steel suppliers during fiscal 2003, Bethlehem Steel Corporation (“Bethlehem”) and National Steel Corporation (“National”), filed for protection under Federal bankruptcy laws in 2001 and 2002, respectively. During the third quarter of fiscal 2003, U.S. Steel bought substantially all of the integrated steel-making assets of National, and ISG acquired the assets of Bethlehem. The steel industry experienced further consolidation in 2005, with the purchase of ISG by the Mittal Steel Group. Industry consolidation, along with increased worldwide demand for steel, may adversely affect our ability to obtain our primary raw materials. If one or more of our current suppliers is unable for financial or any other reason, including labor strikes, to continue in business or to produce steel sufficient to meet our requirements, essential supply of our primary raw materials could be temporarily interrupted and adversely affect our business. We are subject to preference claims by our former steel suppliers. In late 2003 and early 2004, a number of lawsuits were filed against several of our operating subsidiaries by Bethlehem and National in their respective bankruptcy proceedings, seeking reimbursement of preferential transfers allegedly made by the respective debtors in the 90-day period preceding their bankruptcy filings. Bethlehem alleges it made preferential payments to our subsidiaries of approximately $7.7 million, while National claims preferential payments in the aggregate amount of $6.3 million. We deny the allegations in the lawsuits and are vigorously defending against these claims. Although in December 2005 we agreed to a settlement with National at no cost to us, such settlement has not yet been finally approved by the bankruptcy court. While we are not able to predict whether we will incur any liability or to accurately estimate the damages, or the range of damages, if any, we might incur in connection with the Bethlehem proceeding, it is possible that this lawsuit will adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. See “Item 3_Legal Proceedings” for additional information regarding this matter. Failure to retain or replace key personnel could hurt our operations. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the efforts, contributions and abilities of our senior management, plant managers and other highly skilled personnel, including our sales executives. These executives and managers have many accumulated years of experience in our industry and developed personal relationships with our customers that are important to our business. Some of such executives and managers are nearing retirement age. If we do not retain the services of our key personnel or if we fail to adequately plan for the succession of such individuals, our customer relationships, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We incur costs to comply with environmental laws and have liabilities for environmental cleanups. Because we have air emissions, discharge wastewater, own and operate real property, and handle hazardous substances and solid waste, we incur costs and liabilities to comply with environmental laws and regulations and may incur significant additional costs as those laws and regulations change in the future or if there is an accidental release of hazardous substances into the environment. The operations of our manufacturing facilities are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These include, for example, (i) the federal Clean Air Act and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to air emissions, (ii) the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA, and comparable state laws that impose requirements for the discharge of waste from our facilities and (iii) the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, or CERCLA, also known as “Superfund,” and comparable state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent waste for disposal. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. We discovered the existence of polychlorinated biphenyls (“PCBs”) and heavy metals at our Metal Prep Houston site, which is located in an industrial area in Houston, Texas. Soil borings have been sampled and analyzed to determine the impact on the soil at this site, and the findings indicate that remediation of the site will likely be necessary. We have filed an application with the Texas Commission of Environmental Quality (“TCEQ”) for entry 17 Table of Contents into the Voluntary Cleanup Program. Based upon an analysis of projected remediation costs of the known contamination, we originally estimated that we would spend and have accrued through fiscal 2004 approximately $2.5 million to remediate this site, which included future environmental consulting fees, oversight expenses and additional testing expenses. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, we reduced our accrual to $1.9 million based upon the finalization of a cost estimate for the proposed remediation work, including excavation, transportation, analysis and disposal. Our Affected Property Assessment Report (“APAR”) has now been approved by the TCEQ, and we are preparing our proposed remedial action that will be filed with TCEQ in early 2006. We expect the cleanup to begin in the second quarter of fiscal 2006 and to be completed by fiscal year ending October 29, 2006. We can give no assurance that actual costs of remediation will not exceed our estimate, perhaps significantly; however, the accrued amount represents our best current-cost estimate based upon the best information available as of the date hereof. We have a contractual indemnity by the immediate prior owner of the property, which we believe obligates that party to reimburse our response costs with respect to this condition. We have brought suit against the prior owner asserting this indemnity, and that party has disputed liability. Further, we have joined in the litigation other potentially responsible parties against whom we are seeking contribution and/or indemnification. However, it is possible that our efforts to obtain reimbursement of our response costs at this site may not be successful or may not prove to be cost-effective for us. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete with all other alternative methods of building construction, which may be viewed as more traditional, more aesthetically pleasing or having other advantages over our products. In addition, competition in the metal components and metal buildings markets of the building industry and in the metal coil coating industry is intense. It is based primarily on: • quality; • service; • delivery; • ability to provide added value in the design and engineering of buildings; • price; • speed of construction in buildings and components; and • personal relationships with customers. We compete with a number of other manufacturers of metal components and engineered building systems and providers of coil coating services ranging from small local firms to large national firms. In addition, we and other manufacturers of metal components and engineered building systems compete with alternative methods of building construction. If these alternative building methods compete successfully against us, such competition could adversely affect us. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is subject to significant fluctuations in response to the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in quarterly operating results; • changes in earnings estimates by analysts; • our announcements of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; • general conditions in the metal components and engineered building systems industries; 18 Table of Contents • fluctuations in stock market price and volume; and • other general economic conditions. In recent years, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price for many companies in industries similar to ours. Some of these fluctuations have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. These market fluctuations may decrease the market price of our common stock in the future. Our acquisition strategy may be unsuccessful if we incorrectly predict operating results or are unable to identify and complete future acquisitions and integrate acquired assets or businesses. We have a history of expansion through acquisitions, and we believe that as our industry continues to consolidate, our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to complete acquisitions and effectively integrate the operations or management of acquired assets or businesses. Acquisitions present other risks and challenges, including the risk of incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of the acquired operations or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring such operations and diversion of management’s attention from existing operations. Although we expect acquisitions to be an integral part of our future growth, we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in identifying or completing any acquisitions or that any businesses or assets that we are able to acquire will be successfully integrated into our existing business. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that any announcement or consummation of an acquisition would have on the trading price of our common stock or our convertible notes. We may not be able to service our debt. In connection with our acquisition activity, especially the MBCI acquisition in 1998, we have incurred debt. We may also incur additional debt from time to time to finance additional acquisitions, capital expenditures or for other purposes if we comply with the restrictions in our senior secured credit agreement. The debt that we carry may have important consequences to us, including the following: • Our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or additional financing may not be available on favorable terms. • We must use a portion of our cash flow to pay the principal and interest on our debt. These payments reduce the funds that would otherwise be available for our operations and future business opportunities. • A substantial decrease in our net operating cash flows could make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements and force us to modify our operations. • We may be more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy generally. If we cannot service our debt, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying acquisitions and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. We can give you no assurance that we can do any of these things on satisfactory terms or at all. In addition, under the terms of our convertible notes, the net share settlement provision requires that upon conversion we pay the principal return in cash, provided that we are in compliance with the financial covenants of our existing or future credit facilities. Assuming that we have enough cash to pay the principal return, we may be cash constrained as a result, and this could adversely affect our ability to service our debt, borrow money or conduct our operations. The conversion price of the notes is $40.14 and the market price condition that triggers holders’ conversion rights is pegged to a stock price of $48.17. 19 Table of Contents Restrictive covenants in our existing senior credit agreement may adversely affect us. In July 2004, we entered into a $325 million senior secured credit agreement with a group of lenders. We must comply with operating and financing restrictions in that agreement. We may also have similar restrictions with any future debt. These restrictions affect, and in many respects limit or prohibit our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • make restricted payments, including dividends or other distributions; • incur liens; • make investments, including joint venture investments; • sell assets; • repurchase capital stock; and • merge or consolidate with or into other companies or sell substantially all our assets. We are required to make mandatory payments on our existing senior secured credit agreement upon the occurrence of certain events, including the sale of assets and the issuance of debt or equity securities, in each case subject to certain limitations and conditions set forth in our existing senior secured credit agreement. Our senior secured credit agreement also requires us to achieve specified financial and operating results and satisfy set financial tests relating to our consolidated net worth and our leverage, fixed charge coverage and senior debt ratios. These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs or otherwise could restrict our activities. These restrictions could also adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. 