Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our businesses are cyclical, and we cannot predict the timing or severity of future economic or industry downturns. The nonresidential construction industry is highly sensitive to national and regional economic conditions. From time to time, it has been adversely affected in various parts of the country by unfavorable economic conditions, low use of manufacturing capacity, high vacancy rates, changes in tax laws affecting the real estate industry, high interest rates and the unavailability of financing. Sales of our products may be adversely affected by weakness in demand for our products within particular customer groups, or a recession in the general construction industry or particular geographic regions. According to the MBMA, reported sales of engineered buildings systems by their members increased from $1.5 billion in 1993 to a high of approximately $2.5 billion in 2000, and then declined, as the economy slowed in 2002, to $1.8 billion. During fiscal 2004, 2005 and 2006, McGraw-Hill’s estimate of low-rise new construction starts for buildings less than five stories increased by 2.4%, 1.8% and 5.7%, respectively in square feet compared to their respective prior fiscal years. During fiscal 2007, McGraw-Hill’s estimate of low-rise new construction starts for buildings less than five stories declined by 4.4% in square feet compared to 2006. This industry decline contributed to a 3.4% decline in our total tons shipped, though we experienced the greatest impact in our metal components segment. We cannot predict the timing or severity of future economic or industry downturns. Any economic downturn, particularly in states where many of our sales are made, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our businesses are seasonal, and our results of operations during our first two fiscal quarters may be adversely affected by seasonality. The metal components, engineered building systems and metal coil coating businesses, and the construction industry in general, are seasonal in nature. Sales normally are lower in the first calendar quarter of each year compared to the other three quarters because of unfavorable weather conditions for construction and typical business planning cycles affecting construction. This seasonality adversely affects our results of operations for the first two fiscal quarters. Prolonged severe weather conditions can delay construction projects and otherwise adversely affect our business. Price volatility and supply constraints in the steel market could prevent us from meeting delivery schedules to our customers or reduce our profit margins. Our business is heavily dependent on the price and supply of steel. The steel industry is highly cyclical in nature, and steel prices have been volatile in recent years and may remain volatile in the future. Steel prices are 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements influenced by numerous factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions domestically and internationally, the availability of raw materials, competition, labor costs, freight and transportation costs, production costs, import duties and other trade restrictions. We do not have any long-term contracts for the purchase of steel and normally do not maintain an inventory of steel in excess of our current production requirements. However, from time to time, we may purchase steel in advance of announced steel price increases. We can give you no assurance that steel will remain available or that prices will not continue to be volatile. While most of our contracts have escalation clauses that allow us, under certain circumstances, to pass along all or a portion of increases in the price of steel after the date of the contract but prior to delivery, we may, for competitive or other reasons, not be able to pass such price increases along. If the available supply of steel declines, we could experience price increases that we are not able to pass on to our customers, a deterioration of service from our suppliers or interruptions or delays that may cause us not to meet delivery schedules to our customers. Any of these problems could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For more information about steel pricing trends in recent years, see “Item 1. Business—Raw Materials.” We rely on a few major suppliers for our supply of steel, which makes us more vulnerable to supply constraints and pricing pressure, as well as the financial condition of those suppliers; further consolidation in the steel industry may adversely affect us. We rely on a few major suppliers for our supply of steel and may be adversely affected by the bankruptcy, financial condition or other factors affecting those suppliers. During the second quarter of fiscal 2007, Nucor Corporation bought substantially all the shares of Harris Steel. We do not anticipate Nucor’s acquisition of Harris Steel to have an impact on our supply of steel, although consolidation in the steel industry may have the effect of increasing our raw material costs. We have not made steel purchases from Harris Steel in the previous five fiscal years. During fiscal 2007, we purchased approximately 26% of our steel requirements from one vendor. No other vendor accounted for over 10% of our steel requirements during fiscal 2007. A prolonged labor strike against one or more of our principal domestic suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Furthermore, if one or more of our current suppliers is unable for financial or any other reason to continue in business or to produce steel sufficient to meet our requirements, essential supply of our primary raw materials could be temporarily interrupted, and our business could be adversely affected. Alternative sources, however, including foreign steel are currently believed to be sufficient to maintain required deliveries. We are subject to preference claims by one of our former steel suppliers. On or about September 15, 2003, Bethlehem Steel Corporation and several of its related entities (collectively, “Bethlehem”) filed a preference-avoidance lawsuit against us and several of our operating subsidiaries in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. The lawsuit was filed as part of the Bethlehem consolidated bankruptcy proceedings, seeking reimbursement of allegedly preferential transfers made by the respective debtors in the 90-day period preceding their bankruptcy filings. Bethlehem alleges it made preferential payments to our subsidiaries of approximately $7.7 million. We have denied the allegations in the Bethlehem lawsuit and are vigorously defending against this claim. While we are not able to predict whether we will incur any liability or to accurately estimate the damages, or the range of damages, if any, we might incur in connection with the Bethlehem proceeding, it is possible that this lawsuit will adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. See “Item 3_Legal Proceedings” for additional information regarding this matter. Failure to retain or replace key personnel could hurt our operations. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the efforts, contributions and abilities of our senior management, plant managers and other highly skilled personnel, including our sales executives. These executives and managers have many accumulated years of experience in our industry and developed personal relationships 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements with our customers that are important to our business. If we do not retain the services of our key personnel or if we fail to adequately plan for the succession of such individuals, our customer relationships, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. If we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights or if our intellectual property rights become obsolete, our competitive position could be adversely affected. We utilize a variety of intellectual property rights in our services. We have a number of United States patents, pending patent applications and other proprietary rights, including those relating to metal roofing systems, metal overhead doors, our pier and header system, our Long Bay® System and our building estimating and design system. We also have several registered trademarks and pending registrations in the United States. We view our portfolio of process and design technologies as one of our competitive strengths. We may not be able to successfully preserve these intellectual property rights in the future and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged. If we are unable to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights, or if there are any successful intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings against us, our business and revenue could be materially and adversely affected. We incur costs to comply with environmental laws and have liabilities for environmental cleanups. Because we have air emissions, discharge wastewater, own and operate real property, and handle hazardous substances and solid waste, we incur costs and liabilities to comply with environmental laws and regulations and may incur significant additional costs as those laws and regulations change in the future or if there is an accidental release of hazardous substances into the environment. The operations of our manufacturing facilities are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These include, for example, (i) the federal Clean Air Act and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to air emissions, (ii) the federal RCRA and comparable state laws that impose requirements for the discharge of waste from our facilities and (iii) the CERCLA and comparable state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent waste for disposal. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. For more information about costs we have incurred for environmental matters in recent years, see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete with all other alternative methods of building construction, which may be viewed as more traditional, more aesthetically pleasing or having other advantages over our products. In addition, competition in the metal components and metal buildings markets of the building industry and in the metal coil coating industry is intense. It is based primarily on: • quality; • service; • on-time delivery; • ability to provide added value in the design and engineering of buildings; • price; • speed of construction in buildings and components; and • personal relationships with customers. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We compete with a number of other manufacturers of metal components and engineered building systems and providers of coil coating services ranging from small local firms to large national firms. In addition, we and other manufacturers of metal components and engineered building systems compete with alternative methods of building construction. If these alternative building methods compete successfully against us, such competition could adversely affect us. In addition, several of our competitors have recently been acquired by steel producers. Competitors owned by steel producers may have a competitive advantage on raw materials that we do not enjoy. Steel producers may prioritize deliveries of raw materials to such competitors or provide them with more favorable pricing, both of which could enable them to offer products to customers at lower prices or accelerated delivery schedules. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is subject to significant fluctuations in response to the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in quarterly operating results; • deviations in our earnings from publicly disclosed forward-looking guidance; • changes in earnings estimates by analysts; • our announcements of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; • general conditions in the metal components and engineered building systems industries; • fluctuations in stock market price and volume; and • other general economic conditions. During fiscal 2007, our closing stock price on the New York Stock Exchange ranged from a high of approximately $61 per share to a low of approximately $36 per share and after the end of our fiscal year, our trading price has declined further. In recent years, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price for many companies in industries similar to ours. Some of these fluctuations have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. These market fluctuations may decrease the market price of our common stock in the future. Our acquisition strategy may be unsuccessful if we incorrectly predict operating results or are unable to identify and complete future acquisitions and integrate acquired assets or businesses. We have a history of expansion through acquisitions, and we believe that as our industry continues to consolidate, our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to complete acquisitions. Growing through acquisitions and managing that growth will require us to continue to invest in operational, financial and management information systems and to attract, retain, motivate and effectively manage our employees. Pursuing and integrating acquisitions, including our recently completed acquisition of RCC, involves a number of risks, including: • the risk of incorrect assumptions or estimates regarding the future results of the acquired business or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring the business; • diversion of management’s attention from existing operations; • unexpected losses of key employees, customers and suppliers of the acquired business; • conforming the financial, technological and management standards, processes, procedures and controls of the acquired business with those of our existing operations; and • increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Although we expect acquisitions to be an integral part of our future growth, we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in identifying or completing any acquisitions or that any businesses or assets that we are able to acquire will be successfully integrated into our existing business. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that any announcement or consummation of an acquisition would have on the trading prices of our securities. Our acquisition strategy subjects us to numerous risks that could adversely affect our results of operations. Acquisitions are an essential part of our growth strategy, and our ability to acquire additional businesses or operations on favorable terms is important to our long-term growth. Depending on conditions in the acquisition market, it may be difficult or impossible for us to identify business or operations for acquisition, or we may not be able to make acquisitions on terms that we consider economically acceptable. Even if we are able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities, our acquisition strategy depends upon, among other things, our ability to obtain financing and, in some cases, regulatory approvals, including under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act. Our incurrence of additional debt, contingent liabilities and expenses in connection with our recent acquisition of RCC, or in connection with any future acquisitions, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our financial position and results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period based on whether significant acquisitions are completed in particular periods. Competition for acquisitions is intense and may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. We may not be able to service our debt, obtain future financing or may be limited operationally. In connection with our acquisition activity, primarily for our acquisition of RCC in 2006, we have incurred debt. We may also incur additional debt from time to time to finance additional acquisitions, capital expenditures or for other purposes if we comply with the restrictions in our senior secured credit agreement. The debt that we carry may have important consequences to us, including the following: • Our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or additional financing may not be available on favorable terms. • We must use a portion of our cash flow to pay the principal and interest on our debt. These payments reduce the funds that would otherwise be available for our operations and future business opportunities. • A substantial decrease in our net operating cash flows could make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements and force us to modify our operations. • We may be more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy generally. If we cannot service our debt, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying acquisitions and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. We can give you no assurance that we can do any of these things on satisfactory terms or at all. In addition, under the terms of our 2.125% convertible senior subordinated notes due 2024 (“Notes”), the net share settlement provision requires that upon conversion we pay the principal return in cash, provided that we are in compliance with the financial covenants of our existing or future credit facilities. Assuming that we have enough cash to pay the principal return, we may be cash constrained as a result, and this could adversely affect our ability to service our debt, borrow money or conduct our operations. The conversion price of the Notes is $40.14 and the market price condition that triggers holders’ conversion rights is pegged to a stock price of $48.16. The conditions for conversion of the Notes were met in the calendar quarter ended June 30, 2007, but the conditions were not met in each of the calendar quarters ended March 31, 2007 and September 30, 2007; 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements therefore, our Notes may no longer be converted by the holders, at their option after September 30, 2007 until such time as our stock price again exceeds the conversion threshold for the specified 20 of the last 30 consecutive days of a calendar quarter or beginning on November 15, 2009. For more information regarding our Notes, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Debt”. Restrictive covenants in our existing senior credit agreement may adversely affect us. We must comply with operating and financing restrictions in our senior secured credit agreement. We may also have similar restrictions with any future debt. These restrictions affect, and in many respects limit or prohibit our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • make restricted payments, including dividends or other distributions; • incur liens; • make investments, including joint venture investments; • sell assets; • repurchase capital stock; and • merge or consolidate with or into other companies or sell substantially all our assets. We are required to make mandatory payments on our existing senior secured credit agreement upon the occurrence of certain events, including the sale of assets and the issuance of debt or equity securities, in each case subject to certain limitations and conditions set forth in our existing senior secured credit agreement. Our senior secured credit agreement also requires us to achieve specified financial and operating results and satisfy set financial tests relating to our consolidated net worth and our leverage, fixed charge coverage and senior debt ratios. These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs or otherwise could restrict our activities. In addition, our senior secured credit agreement requires us to pay down our term loan to the extent we generate positive cash flow each fiscal year according to the terms of the agreement. These restrictions could also adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. The accounting method for convertible debt securities with net share settlement, like the 2.125% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes, may be subject to change. In August 2007, the FASB issued for comment an exposure draft of a proposed FASB Staff Position APB 14-a (“Proposed FSP”) that would change the accounting for certain convertible debt instruments, including our Notes. Under the proposed new rules for convertible debt instruments that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion, an entity should separately account for the liability and equity components of the instrument in a manner that reflects the issuer’s economic interest cost. The effect of the proposed new rules for our Notes is that the equity component would be included in the paid-in-capital section of stockholders’ equity on our balance sheet and the value of the equity component would be treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the Notes. Higher interest expense would result by recognizing the accretion of the discounted carrying value of the Notes to their face amount as interest expense over the term of the Notes using an effective interest rate method of amortization. We believe the FASB plans to issue final guidance in the first half of calendar 2008. This Proposed FSP is expected to be effective as early as our fiscal year ended 2009, would not permit early application and would be applied retrospectively to all periods presented. While this accounting pronouncement does not change the economic substance or cash flow requirement for the Notes, it should be noted that the amount reported as interest expense in our Consolidated Statement of Operations would increase significantly. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We are currently evaluating the proposed new rules and are evaluating the impact at this time. However, if the proposed FSP is adopted as it is proposed, we expect to have higher interest expense starting in fiscal 2009 due to the interest expense accretion and prior period interest expense associated with the Notes. The Notes would also reflect higher than previously reported interest expense due to retrospective application. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. There are no unresolved staff comments outstanding with the Securities and Exchange Commission at this time. 