Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our industry is cyclical and highly sensitive to macroeconomic conditions; as a result, our industry is currently experiencing a downturn which, if sustained, could materially and adversely affect our business, liquidity and results of operations. The nonresidential construction industry is highly sensitive to national and regional macroeconomic conditions. The United States economy is currently undergoing a period of slowdown and unprecedented volatility, which is having an adverse effect on our business. During fiscal 2008, McGraw-Hill’s estimate of low-rise new construction starts for buildings less than five stories declined by 17.5% in square feet compared to 2007. This industry decline contributed to a 5.6% decline in our total tons shipped, though we experienced the greatest impact in our metal coil coating segment. Uncertainty about current economic conditions poses a risk as businesses may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on the demand for our products. Other factors that could influence demand include increased fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the non-residential real estate markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit and other macroeconomic factors. From time to time, our industry has also been adversely affected in various parts of the country by low use of manufacturing capacity, high vacancy rates, changes in tax laws affecting the real estate industry, high interest rates and the unavailability of financing. Sales of our products may be adversely affected by weakness in demand for our products within particular customer groups, or a recession in the general construction industry or particular geographic regions. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. We cannot predict the ultimate severity or length of the current economic crisis, or the timing or severity of future economic or industry downturns. Any economic downturn, particularly in states where many of our sales are made, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, including potential asset impairments. Current challenges in the credit markets may adversely affect our business and financial condition. The current financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets and the possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. The current challenges in the credit markets have had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on our business and our financial condition. We may face significant challenges if conditions in the financial markets do not improve, including raw material shortages resulting from the insolvency of key suppliers 16 Table of Contents and the inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. In addition, declining customer spending may result in higher levels of order cancellations than we have historically experienced, and may drive us to sell our products at lower prices, which would have an adverse effect on our margins and profitability. Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to refinance our existing debt. Our $125 million revolving credit facility matures on June 18, 2009. In addition, on November 15, 2009, the holders of our $180 million principal amount of our 2.125% convertible senior subordinated notes due 2024 (“Convertible Notes”) have the right to require us to repurchase such notes at 100% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. We also have a term loan with an outstanding balance of $293 million that matures on June 18, 2010. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness could be impaired if current market conditions continue or worsen. For the past several months, the credit markets have been very volatile and have presented very unattractive terms and conditions for the few companies entering into credit transactions during that period. In the event that credit becomes more readily available, lenders may seek more restrictive lending provisions and higher interest rates that may reduce our borrowing capacity and increase our costs. Also, given the increased level of recent banking failures, current or future lenders may become unwilling or unable to continue to advance funds under any agreements in place. We can make no assurances that we will be able to refinance our indebtedness, or that any such refinancing will be under terms that are as favorable to us as past credit agreements. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness in a timely fashion, our cash from operations may be insufficient to make required repurchases of our Convertible Notes or pay our credit facility debt upon maturity. In addition, the failure to obtain sufficient financing may constrain our ability to operate or grow the business and to affect our strategy. If we are unable to refinance or amend and/or extend our revolving credit facility, we may not be able to repurchase our Convertible Notes if required. A failure to repurchase such notes when required would cause us to be in default under all of our existing indebtedness. Our revolving credit facility matures on June 18, 2009. The holders of our Convertible Notes have the ability to require us to repurchase such notes at 100% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, on November 15, 2009. Our current senior credit facility permits us to repurchase such notes only if either (i) our senior leverage ratio is less than 2.75 to 1.0, and we have availability under our revolving credit facility of at least $25 million, in each case on a pro forma basis after giving effect to the repurchase, or (ii) our senior leverage ratio is less than 1.0 to 1.0. Thus, if we are unable to refinance or amend and/or extend our revolving credit facility prior to November 15, 2009, we are unlikely to be permitted under our credit facility to repurchase the notes. A failure to repurchase the notes when required would constitute an event of default under the notes, which would also result in an event of default under our senior credit facility. If this were to occur, all of our long-term debt, which at November 2, 2008 was approximately $473 million, would become immediately due and payable. If we are unable to refinance our existing debt through the issuance of new debt, we may raise capital to repay our debt through the sale of our common stock or exchange common stock for our debt. Any such sale or exchange could be highly dilutive to our existing stockholders, and could adversely effect the price of our common stock. If we are unable to refinance our existing debt through the issuance to new debt, we may raise capital to repay our existing debt through public or private sales of our common stock or exchange common stock for our debt. The issuance of common stock to repay our existing debt could be highly dilutive to our existing stockholders. In addition, the issuance and sale of substantial amounts of common stock or the announcement that such issuances and sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 17 Table of Contents We may not be able to service our debt, obtain future financing or may be limited operationally. We may incur additional debt from time to time to finance acquisitions, capital expenditures or for other purposes if we comply with the restrictions in our senior secured credit agreement. The debt that we carry may have important consequences to us, including the following: • Our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or additional financing may not be available on favorable terms; • We must use a portion of our cash flow to pay the principal and interest on our debt. These payments reduce the funds that would otherwise be available for our operations and future business opportunities; • A substantial decrease in our net operating cash flows could make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements and force us to modify our operations; and • We may be more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy generally. If we cannot service our debt, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying acquisitions and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. We can give you no assurance that we can do any of these things on satisfactory terms or at all. In addition, under the terms of our Convertible Notes, the net share settlement provision requires that upon conversion we pay the principal return in cash, provided that we are in compliance with the financial covenants of our existing or future credit facilities. Assuming that we have enough cash to pay the principal return, we may be cash constrained as a result, and this could adversely affect our ability to service our other debt, borrow money or conduct our operations. The conversion price of the Convertible Notes is $40.14 and the market price condition that triggers holders’ conversion rights is pegged to a stock price of $48.16. The conditions for conversion of the Convertible Notes were not met in each of the calendar quarters ended March 31, 2008, June 30, 2008 and September 30, 2008. Therefore, our Convertible Notes currently may not be converted until such time as our stock price again exceeds the conversion threshold for the specified 20 of the last 30 consecutive trading days of a calendar quarter or if upon specified events. We have the right to redeem the Convertible Notes, beginning on November 20, 2009, for a price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Each holder has the right to require that we repurchase the Convertible Notes after five, 10 and 15 years at 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, beginning November 15, 2009. For more information regarding our Convertible Notes, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Debt”. Restrictive covenants in our existing senior credit agreement may adversely affect us. We must comply with operating and financing restrictions in our senior secured credit agreement. We may also have similar restrictions with any future debt. These restrictions affect and, in many respects limit or prohibit our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • make restricted payments, including dividends or other distributions; • incur liens; • make investments, including joint venture investments; • sell assets; • repurchase our debt, including our Convertible Notes, and our capital stock; and • merge or consolidate with or into other companies or sell substantially all our assets. 18 Table of Contents We are required to make mandatory payments on our existing senior secured credit agreement upon the occurrence of certain events, including the sale of assets and the issuance of debt or equity securities, in each case subject to certain limitations and conditions set forth in our existing senior secured credit agreement. Our senior secured credit agreement also requires us to achieve specified financial and operating results and satisfy set financial tests relating to our consolidated net worth and our leverage, fixed charge coverage and senior debt ratios. These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs or otherwise could restrict our activities. In addition, under certain circumstances and subject to the limitations set forth in our senior secured credit agreement, our senior secured credit agreement requires us to pay down our term loan to the extent we generate positive cash flow each fiscal year. These restrictions could also adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. Current market capitalization or failure to meet cash flow projections may result in goodwill impairment charges. We perform an annual assessment of the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles. Additionally, we assess goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that such carrying values may not be recoverable. The results of our fiscal year 2008 annual assessment of the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles indicated that the fair value of all of the Company’s reporting units were in excess of the carrying value of those reporting units, including goodwill, and thus no impairment existed as of July 27, 2008. Subsequent to our annual assessment of the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles, and beginning largely in late September, our stock price and market capitalization decreased from $36.51 and $720.3 million, respectively, at July 27, 2008 to $18.61 and $367.3 million, respectively, at November 2, 2008. We evaluated whether the recent decline in our stock price and market capitalization represents a significant decline in the underlying fair value of the Company. Based upon our analysis we concluded that the decline in our stock price and the resulting decline in our market capitalization do not require us to perform an additional goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles impairment test because we do not believe the decline was caused by significant underperformance of the Company relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant change in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business, or a significant sustained negative industry or economic trend. We will, however, continue to monitor our stock price and assess whether a continued decline in our market capitalization or our failure to meet our cash flow projections in the future represent triggering events that would require us to perform an interim goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles impairment test in subsequent periods. In the event such a test is required, we might be required to record a significant charge for the impairment of our goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles. Our businesses are seasonal, and our results of operations during our first two fiscal quarters may be adversely affected by seasonality. The metal coil coating, metal components and engineered building systems businesses, and the construction industry in general, are seasonal in nature. Sales normally are lower in the first calendar quarter of each year compared to the other three quarters because of unfavorable weather conditions for construction and typical business planning cycles affecting construction. This seasonality adversely affects our results of operations for the first two fiscal quarters. Prolonged severe weather conditions can delay construction projects and otherwise adversely affect our business. Price volatility and supply constraints in the steel market could prevent us from meeting delivery schedules to our customers or reduce our profit margins. Our business is heavily dependent on the price and supply of steel. The steel industry is highly cyclical in nature, and steel prices have been volatile in recent years and may remain volatile in the future. Steel prices are influenced by numerous factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions domestically and internationally, the availability of raw materials, competition, labor costs, freight and transportation costs, 19 Table of Contents production costs, import duties and other trade restrictions. Steel prices increased through most of fiscal 2008 due to cost increases in iron ore, coke, steel scrap, ocean freight and transportation costs. However, rapidly declining demand due to the effects of the credit crisis and global economic slowdown on the construction, automotive and industrial markets has resulted in many steel manufacturers around the world announcing plans to cut production by closing plants and furloughing union and non-union workers. Steel suppliers such as US Steel and Arcelor Mittal are among these manufacturers who have cut production. We do not have any long-term contracts for the purchase of steel and normally do not maintain an inventory of steel in excess of our current production requirements. However, from time to time, we may purchase steel in advance of announced steel price increases. We can give you no assurance that steel will remain available or that prices will not continue to be volatile. While most of our contracts have escalation clauses that allow us, under certain circumstances, to pass along all or a portion of increases in the price of steel after the date of the contract but prior to delivery, we may, for competitive or other reasons, not be able to pass such price increases along. If the available supply of steel declines, we could experience price increases that we are not able to pass on to our customers, a deterioration of service from our suppliers or interruptions or delays that may cause us not to meet delivery schedules to our customers. Any of these problems could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For more information about steel pricing trends in recent years, see “Item 1. Business—Raw Materials” and “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about market Risk—Steel Prices.” We rely on a few major suppliers for our supply of steel, which makes us more vulnerable to supply constraints and pricing pressure, as well as the financial condition of those suppliers. We rely on a few major suppliers for our supply of steel and may be adversely affected by the bankruptcy, financial condition or other factors affecting those suppliers. During fiscal 2008, we purchased approximately 24% of our steel requirements from one vendor. No other vendor accounted for over 10% of our steel requirements during fiscal 2008. During fiscal 2008, due to unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates and availability, we did not purchase steel from European suppliers. Limiting purchases to domestic suppliers further reduces our available steel supply base. Therefore, recently announced production cutbacks or a prolonged labor strike against one or more of our principal domestic suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Furthermore, if one or more of our current suppliers is unable for financial or any other reason to continue in business or to produce steel sufficient to meet our requirements, essential supply of our primary raw materials could be temporarily interrupted, and our business could be adversely affected. Failure to retain or replace key personnel could hurt our operations. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the efforts, contributions and abilities of our senior management, plant managers and other highly skilled personnel, including our sales executives. These executives and managers have many accumulated years of experience in our industry and developed personal relationships with our customers that are important to our business. If we do not retain the services of our key personnel or if we fail to adequately plan for the succession of such individuals, our customer relationships, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. If we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights or if our intellectual property rights become obsolete, our competitive position could be adversely affected. We utilize a variety of intellectual property rights in our services. We have a number of United States patents, pending patent applications and other proprietary rights, including those relating to metal roofing systems, metal overhead doors, our pier and header system, our Long Bay® System and our building estimating and design system. We also have several registered trademarks and pending registrations in the United States. We view our portfolio of process and design technologies as one of our competitive strengths. We may not be able to successfully preserve these intellectual property rights in the future and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged. If we are unable to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights, or if there are any successful intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings against us, our business and revenue could be materially and adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents We incur costs to comply with environmental laws and have liabilities for environmental cleanups. Because we have air emissions, discharge wastewater, own and operate real property, and handle hazardous substances and solid waste, we incur costs and liabilities to comply with environmental laws and regulations and may incur significant additional costs as those laws and regulations or their enforcement change in the future or if there is an accidental release of hazardous substances into the environment. The operations of our manufacturing facilities are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These include, for example, (i) the federal Clean Air Act and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to air emissions, (ii) the federal RCRA and comparable state laws that impose requirements for the storage, treatment, handling and disposal of waste from our facilities and (iii) the CERCLA and comparable state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent waste for disposal. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, personal injury, property or natural resource damages claims and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. For more information about costs we have incurred for environmental matters in recent years, see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete with all other alternative methods of building construction, which may be viewed as more traditional, more aesthetically pleasing or having other advantages over our products. In addition, competition in the metal components and metal buildings markets of the building industry and in the metal coil coating segment is intense. It is based primarily on: • quality; • service; • on-time delivery; • ability to provide added value in the design and engineering of buildings; • price; • speed of construction in buildings and components; and • personal relationships with customers. We compete with a number of other manufacturers of metal components and engineered building systems and providers of coil coating services ranging from small local firms to large national firms. In addition, we and other manufacturers of metal components and engineered building systems compete with alternative methods of building construction. If these alternative building methods compete successfully against us, such competition could adversely affect us. In addition, several of our competitors have recently been acquired by steel producers. Competitors owned by steel producers may have a competitive advantage on raw materials that we do not enjoy. Steel producers may prioritize deliveries of raw materials to such competitors or provide them with more favorable pricing, both of which could enable them to offer products to customers at lower prices or accelerated delivery schedules. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is subject to significant fluctuations in response to the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in quarterly operating results; • deviations in our earnings from publicly disclosed forward-looking guidance; • changes in earnings estimates by analysts; 21 Table of Contents • our announcements of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; • general conditions in the metal components and engineered building systems industries; • uncertainty about current global economic conditions; • fluctuations in stock market price and volume; and • other general economic conditions. During fiscal 2008, our closing stock price on the New York Stock Exchange ranged from a high of approximately $41 per share to a low of approximately $14 per share. In recent years, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price for many companies in industries similar to ours. Some of these fluctuations have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. These market fluctuations may decrease the market price of our common stock in the future. Our acquisition strategy may be unsuccessful if we incorrectly predict operating results or are unable to identify and complete future acquisitions and integrate acquired assets or businesses. We have a history of expansion through acquisitions, and we believe that as our industry continues to consolidate, our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to complete acquisitions. Growing through acquisitions and managing that growth will require us to continue to invest in operational, financial and management information systems and to attract, retain, motivate and effectively manage our employees. Pursuing and integrating acquisitions, including our acquisition of RCC, involves a number of risks, including: • the risk of incorrect assumptions or estimates regarding the future results of the acquired business or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring the business; • diversion of management’s attention from existing operations; • unexpected losses of key employees, customers and suppliers of the acquired business; • conforming the financial, technological and management standards, processes, procedures and controls of the acquired business with those of our existing operations; and • increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. Although we expect acquisitions to be an integral part of our future growth, we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in identifying or completing any acquisitions or that any businesses or assets that we are able to acquire will be successfully integrated into our existing business. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that any announcement or consummation of an acquisition would have on the trading prices of our securities. Our acquisition strategy subjects us to numerous risks that could adversely affect our results of operations. Acquisitions are an essential part of our growth strategy, and our ability to acquire additional businesses or operations on favorable terms is important to our long-term growth. Depending on conditions in the acquisition market, it may be difficult or impossible for us to identify businesses or operations for acquisition, or we may not be able to make acquisitions on terms that we consider economically acceptable. Even if we are able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities, our acquisition strategy depends upon, among other things, our ability to obtain financing and, in some cases, regulatory approvals, including under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act. Our incurrence of additional debt, contingent liabilities and expenses in connection with our acquisition of RCC, or in connection with any future acquisitions, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our financial position and results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period based on whether significant acquisitions are completed in particular periods. Competition for acquisitions is intense and may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. 22 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. There are no unresolved staff comments outstanding with the Securities and Exchange Commission at this time. 