ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are certain risks that could affect the Company’s business and its results of operations. The risks identified below are not all encompassing but should be considered in establishing an opinion of the Company’s future operations. Global economics, political and other conditions may adversely affect trends in consumer spending, which may adversely impact the Company’s revenue and profitability. The global electronic payments industry depends heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. A sustained deterioration in the general economic conditions, particularly in the United States or Europe, or increases in interest rates in key countries in which the Company operates may adversely affect the Company’s financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions involving payment cards. A reduction in the amount of consumer spending could result in a decrease of the Company’s revenue and profits. Specifically, general economic conditions in the U.S. and other areas of the world weakened in the second half of 2008 and with a dramatic acceleration in the fourth quarter. Many of FDC’s businesses rely in part on the number and size of consumer transactions which have been challenged by a declining U.S. and world economy and difficult credit markets. While the Company is partially insulated from specific industry trends through its diverse market presence, broad slowdowns in consumer spending had a material impact on 2008 revenues and profits and is expected to have an impact on revenues and profits in 2009 as well. Retail sales are expected to remain relatively flat or decrease during 2009 compared to 2008. Even with flat retail sales compared to 2008, the Company’s revenues could decrease as sales may continue to shift to large discount merchants from which the Company earns less per transaction. A further weakening in the economy could also force some retailers to close resulting in exposure to potential credit losses and further transaction declines and the Company earning less on transactions due also to a potential shift to large discount merchants. Additionally, credit card issuers have been reducing credit limits and are more selective with regard to whom they issue credit cards. A continuation or acceleration of the economic slowdown could adversely impact future revenues and profits of the Company and result in a downgrade of its debt ratings which may lead to termination or modification of certain contracts and make it more difficult for the Company to obtain new business. Material breaches in security of the Company’s systems may have a significant effect on the Company’s business. The uninterrupted operation of the Company’s information systems and the confidentiality of the customer/consumer information that resides on such systems are critical to the successful operations of the Company’s business. The Company has security, backup and recovery systems in place, as well as a business continuity plan to ensure the system will not be inoperable. The Company also has what it deems sufficient security around the system to prevent unauthorized access to the system. However, the Company’s visibility in the global payments industry may attract hackers to conduct attacks on the Company’s systems that could compromise the security of the Company’s data. An information breach in the system and loss of confidential information such as credit card numbers and related information could have a longer and more significant impact on the business operations than a hardware failure. The loss of confidential information could result in losing the customers’ confidence and thus the loss of their business, as well as imposition of fines and damages. The Company’s substantial leverage could adversely affect its ability to raise additional capital to fund its operations, limit the Company’s ability to react to changes in the economy or its industry, expose the Company to interest rate risk to the extent of its variable rate debt and prevent the Company from meeting its debt obligations. The Company is highly leveraged. The Company’s high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: • increasing the Company’s vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; 22 • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on the Company’s indebtedness, therefore reducing the Company’s ability to use its cash flow to fund the Company’s operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; • exposing the Company to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of its borrowings, including and most significantly borrowings under the Company’s senior secured credit facilities, will be at variable rates of interest; • making it more difficult for the Company to satisfy its obligations with respect to its indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of the Company’s debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the indenture governing the notes and the agreements governing such other indebtedness; • restricting the Company from making strategic acquisitions or causing the Company to make non-strategic divestitures; • making it more difficult for the Company to obtain network sponsorship and clearing services from financial institutions as a result of the Company’s increased leverage; • limiting the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting the Company’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the Company’s business or market conditions and placing the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors who are less highly leveraged and who, therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that the Company’s leverage prevents it from exploiting. Despite the Company’s high indebtedness level, the Company and its subsidiaries still may be able to incur significant additional amounts of debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with the Company’s substantial indebtedness. The Company and its subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although the indentures governing the Company’s senior notes, the Company’s senior subordinated notes, and the senior PIK notes of First Data Holdings Inc.; the agreement governing the Company’s senior unsecured debt; and the Company’s senior secured credit facilities contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, the amount of indebtedness that could be incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If new debt is added to the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ existing debt levels, the related risks that the Company will face would increase. The Company’s debt agreements contain restrictions that will limit the Company’s flexibility in operating its business. The indentures governing the Company’s senior notes, the Company’s senior subordinated notes, and the senior PIK notes of First Data Holdings Inc.; the agreement governing the Company’s senior unsecured debt; and the Company’s senior secured credit facilities contain various covenants that limit the Company’s ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit the Company’s and it’s restricted subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; • pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of the Company’s capital stock or make other restricted payments; • make certain investments; • sell certain assets; 23 • create liens; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets; • enter into certain transactions with the Company’s affiliates; and • designate the Company’s subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under one or more of these agreements, including as a result of cross default provisions and, in the case of the revolving credit facility, permit the lenders to cease making loans to the Company. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Company’s senior secured credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the Company’s senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. Such actions by those lenders could cause cross defaults under the Company’s other indebtedness. If the Company was unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the Company’s senior secured credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. The Company has pledged a significant portion of the Company’s assets as collateral under the Company’s senior secured credit facilities. If the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, the Company may not have sufficient assets to repay the Company’s senior secured credit facilities as well as the Company’s unsecured indebtedness. The Company depends, in part, on its merchant relationships and alliances to grow the Company’s Merchant Services business. If the Company is unable to maintain these relationships and alliances, the Company’s business may be adversely affected. Growth in the Company’s Merchant Services business is derived primarily from acquiring new merchant relationships, new and enhanced product and service offerings, cross selling products and services into existing relationships, the shift of consumer spending to increased usage of electronic forms of payment and the strength of the Company’s alliance partnerships with banks and financial institutions and other third parties. A substantial portion of the Company’s business is conducted through “alliances” with banks and other institutions. The Company’s alliance structures take on different forms, including consolidated subsidiaries, equity method investments and revenue sharing arrangements. Under the alliance program, the Company and a bank or other institution form a joint venture, either contractually or through a separate legal entity. Merchant contracts may be contributed to the venture by the Company and/or the bank or institution. The banks and other institutions generally provide card association sponsorship, clearing and settlement services. These institutions typically act as a merchant referral source when the institution has an existing banking or other relationship. The Company provides transaction processing and related functions. Both alliance partners may provide management, sales, marketing, and other administrative services. The alliance structure allows the Company to be the processor for multiple financial institutions, any one of which may be selected by the merchant as their bank partner. The Company relies on the continuing growth of its merchant relationships, alliances and other distribution channels. There can be no guarantee that this growth will continue. The loss of merchant relationships or alliance and financial institution partners could negatively impact the Company’s business and result in a reduction of the Company’s revenue and profit. The Company relies on various financial institutions to provide clearing services in connection with its settlement activities. If the Company is unable to maintain clearing services with these financial institutions and is unable to find a replacement, the Company’s business may be adversely affected. The Company relies on various financial institutions to provide clearing services in connection with the settlement activities of the Company. If such financial institutions should stop providing clearing services the Company must find other financial institutions to provide those services. If the Company is unable to find a replacement financial institution the Company may no longer be able to provide processing services to certain customers which could negatively impact the revenue and earnings of the Company. 24 Future consolidation of client financial institutions or other client groups may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. The Company has experienced the negative impact of the bank industry consolidation in recent years. Bank industry consolidation impacts existing and potential clients in the Company’s service areas, primarily in Financial Services and Merchant Services. The Company’s alliance strategy could be negatively impacted as a result of consolidations, especially where the banks involved are committed to their internal merchant processing businesses that compete with the Company. Bank consolidation has led to an increasingly concentrated client base in the industry, resulting in a changing client mix for Financial Services as well as increased price compression. Further consolidation in the bank industry or other client base could have a negative impact on the Company. The Company is subject to the credit risk that its merchants and agents will be unable to satisfy obligations for which the Company may also be liable. The Company is subject to the credit risk of its merchants and agents being unable to satisfy obligations for which the Company also may be liable. For example, the Company and its merchant acquiring alliances are contingently liable for transactions originally acquired by the Company that are disputed by the card holder and charged back to the merchants. If the Company or the alliance are unable to collect this amount from the merchant, due to the merchant’s insolvency or other reasons, the Company or the alliance will bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the cardholder. Also, the Company’s subsidiary Integrated Payments Systems, Inc. potentially may be liable if holders of official checks that it issues are sold by an agent bank which then becomes insolvent, to the extent that such liabilities are not federally insured or otherwise recovered through the receivership process. The Company has an active program to manage its credit risk and often mitigates its risk by obtaining collateral. Notwithstanding the Company’s program for managing its credit risk, it is possible that a default on such obligations by one or more of the Company’s merchants or agents could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company’s cost saving plans are based on assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate which may negatively impact the Company’s operating results. The Company is in the process of consolidating its data centers and command centers in the United States and internationally. In addition, the Company is implementing other cost improvement and cost containment programs across all of the Company’s business segments. While the Company expects its cost saving initiatives to result in significant cost savings throughout the Company’s organization, its estimated savings are based on several assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate, and as a result the Company cannot assure that it will realize these cost savings. The failure to achieve the Company’s estimated cost savings would negatively affect its financial condition and results of operations. The ability to adopt technology to changing industry and customer needs or trends may affect the Company’s competitiveness or demand for the Company’s products, which may adversely affect the Company’s operating results. Changes in technology may limit the competitiveness of and demand for the Company’s services. The Company’s businesses operate in industries that are subject to technological advancements, developing industry standards and changing customer needs and preferences. Also, the Company’s customers continue to adopt new technology for business and personal uses. The Company must anticipate and respond to these industry and customer changes in order to remain competitive within the Company’s relative markets. For example, the ability to adopt technological advancements surrounding point-of-sale (“POS”) technology available to merchants could have an impact on the Company’s International and Merchant Services business. The Company’s inability to respond to new competitors and technological advancements could impact all of the Company’s businesses. 25 Changes in credit card association or other network rules or standards could adversely affect the Company’s business. In order to provide the Company’s transaction processing services, several of the Company’s subsidiaries are registered with Visa and MasterCard and other networks as members or service providers for member institutions. As such, the Company and many of its customers are subject to card association and network rules that could subject the Company or its customers to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card associations or networks for certain acts or omissions by the Company, acquirer customers, processing customers and merchants. Visa, MasterCard and other networks, some of which are the Company’s competitors, set the standards with respect to which the Company must comply. The termination of the Company’s member registration or the Company’s status as a certified service provider, or any changes in card association or other network rules or standards, including interpretation and implementation of the rules or standards, that increase the cost of doing business or limit the Company’s ability to provide transaction processing services to or through the Company’s customers, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Changes in card association and debit network fees or products could increase costs or otherwise limit the Company’s operations. From time to time, card associations and debit networks increase the organization and/or processing fees (known as interchange fees) that they charge. It is possible that competitive pressures will result in the Company absorbing a portion of such increases in the future, which would increase its operating costs, reduce its profit margin and adversely affect its business, operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, the rules and regulations of the various card associations and networks prescribe certain capital requirements. Any increase in the capital level required would further limit the Company’s use of capital for other purposes. Changes in laws, regulations and enforcement activities may adversely affect the products, services and markets in which the Company operates. The Company and its customers are subject to regulations that affect the electronic payments industry in the many countries in which the Company’s services are used. In particular, the Company’s customers are subject to numerous regulations applicable to banks, financial institutions and card issuers in the United States and abroad, and, consequently, the Company is at times affected by such federal, state and local regulations. Regulation of the payments industry, including regulations applicable to the Company and its customers, has increased significantly in recent years. Failure to comply with regulations may result in the suspension or revocation of license or registration, the limitation, suspension or termination of service, and/or the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. The Company is subject to U.S. and international financial services regulations, a myriad of consumer protection laws, escheat regulations and privacy and information security regulations to name only a few. Changes to legal rules and regulations, or interpretation or enforcement thereof, could have a negative financial effect on the Company. In addition, even an inadvertent failure by the Company to comply with laws and regulations, as well as rapidly evolving social expectations of corporate fairness, could damage the Company’s reputation or brands. There is also increasing scrutiny of a number of credit card practices, from which some of the Company’s customers derive significant revenue, by the U.S. Congress and governmental agencies. The Company has structured its business in accordance with existing tax laws and interpretations of such laws which have been confirmed through either tax rulings or opinions obtained in various jurisdictions including those related to value added taxes in Europe. Changes in tax laws or their interpretations could decrease the value of revenues the Company receives and have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business. The Company’s business may be adversely affected by risks associated with foreign operations. The Company is subject to risks related to the changes in currency rates as a result of its investments in foreign operations and from revenues generated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Revenue and profit generated by international operations will increase or decrease compared to prior periods as a result of changes in 26 foreign currency exchange rates. From time to time, the Company utilizes foreign currency forward contracts or other derivative instruments to mitigate the cash flow or market value risks associated with foreign currency denominated transactions. However, these hedge contracts may not eliminate all of the risks related to foreign currency translation. Furthermore, the Company may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of its other revenue currencies into U.S. dollars. The occurrence of any of these factors could decrease the value of revenues the Company receives from its international operations and have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business. Increase in interest rates may negatively impact the Company’s operating results and financial condition. Certain of the Company’s borrowings, including borrowings under the Company’s senior secured credit facilities to the extent the interest rate is not fixed by an interest rate swap, are at variable rates of interest. An increase in interest rates would have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations by causing an increase in interest expense. Unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect the Company’s tax expense. The Company’s tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. An unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, thereby negatively impacting the Company’s results of operations. The Company has established contingency reserves for material, known tax exposures relating to deductions, transactions and other matters involving some uncertainty as to the proper tax treatment of the item. These reserves reflect what the Company believes to be reasonable assumptions as to the likely final resolution of each issue if raised by a taxing authority. While the Company believes that the reserves are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax risks, there is no assurance that, in all instances, an issue raised by a tax authority will be finally resolved at a financial cost not in excess of any related reserve. An unfavorable resolution, therefore, could negatively impact the Company’s effective tax rate, financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the current and/or future periods. The Company’s exposure to tax audits includes matters involving its former Western Union unit, which was spun off in September 2006. Under the Tax Allocation Agreement executed at the time of the spin-off, Western Union is responsible for all taxes, interest and penalties related to it and must indemnify the Company against such amounts. The Company, however, generally has ultimate liability to the relevant tax authorities for such amounts in the event Western Union were to default in its indemnification obligation. Failure to protect the Company’s intellectual property rights and defend itself from potential patent infringement claims may diminish the Company’s competitive advantages or restrict it from delivering the Company’s services. The Company’s trademarks, patents and other intellectual property are important to its future success. The FIRST DATA trademark and trade name and the STAR trademark and trade name are intellectual property rights which are individually material to the Company. These trademarks and trade names are widely recognized and associated with quality and reliable service. Loss of the proprietary use of the FIRST DATA or STAR trademarks and trade names or a diminution in the perceived quality associated with them could harm the growth of the Company’s businesses. The Company also relies on proprietary technology. It is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology. Assurance of protecting its trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information cannot be guaranteed. The Company’s patents could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide the Company with any meaningful protection or advantage. If the Company was unable to maintain the proprietary nature of its technologies, the Company could lose competitive advantages and be materially adversely affected. The laws of certain foreign countries in which the Company does business or contemplates doing business in the future do not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Adverse determinations in judicial or administrative proceedings could prevent the Company from selling the Company’s services or prevent the Company from preventing others from selling competing services, and thereby may have a material adverse affect on the business and results of operations. Additionally, claims have 27 been made, are currently pending, and other claims may be made in the future, with regards to the Company’s technology infringing on a patent or other intellectual property rights. Unfavorable resolution of these claims could either result in the Company being restricted from delivering the related service or result in a settlement that could be material to the Company. The Company is the subject of various legal proceedings which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenue and profitability. The Company is involved in various litigation matters. The Company is also involved in or is the subject of governmental or regulatory agency inquiries or investigations from time to time. If the Company is unsuccessful in its defense in the litigation matters, or any other legal proceeding, it may be forced to pay damages or fines and/or change its business practices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenue and profitability. For more information about the Company’s legal proceedings, see “Item 3: Legal Proceedings” herein. The ability to recruit, retain and develop qualified personnel is critical to the Company’s success and growth. All of the Company’s businesses function at the intersection of rapidly changing technological, social, economic and regulatory developments that requires a wide ranging set of expertise and intellectual capital. For the Company to successfully compete and grow, it must retain, recruit and develop the necessary personnel who can provide the needed expertise across the entire spectrum of its intellectual capital needs. In addition, the Company must develop its personnel to provide succession plans capable of maintaining continuity in the midst of the inevitable unpredictability of human capital. However, the market for qualified personnel is competitive and the Company may not succeed in recruiting additional personnel or may fail to effectively replace current personnel who depart with qualified or effective successors. The Company’s effort to retain and develop personnel may also result in significant additional expenses, which could adversely affect the Company’s profitability. The Company also manages its business with a number of key personnel that do not have employment agreements with the Company. In connection with the appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer concurrent with the closing of the merger, changes have been and may continue to be made to the Company’s senior management. The Company cannot assure that key personnel, including executive officers, will continue to be employed or that it will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Failure to comply with state and federal antitrust requirements could adversely affect the Company’s business. Through the Company’s merchant alliances, it holds an ownership interest in several competing merchant acquiring businesses while serving as the electronic processor for those businesses. In order to satisfy state and federal antitrust requirements, the Company actively maintains an antitrust compliance program. Notwithstanding the Company’s compliance program, it is possible that perceived or actual violation of state or federal antitrust requirements could give rise to regulatory enforcement investigations or actions. Regulatory scrutiny of, or regulatory enforcement action in connection with, compliance with state and federal antitrust requirements could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s reputation and business. The market for the Company’s electronic commerce services is evolving and may not continue to develop or grow rapidly enough for the Company to maintain and increase its profitability. If the number of electronic commerce transactions does not continue to grow or if consumers or businesses do not continue to adopt the Company’s services, it could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company believes future growth in the electronic commerce market will be driven by the cost, ease-of-use, and quality of products and services offered to consumers and businesses. In order to consistently increase and maintain the Company’s profitability, consumers and businesses must continue to adopt the Company’s services. 28 The Company may experience breakdowns in its processing systems that could damage customer relations and expose it to liability. The Company depends heavily on the reliability of its processing systems in the Company’s core businesses. A system outage or data loss could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Not only would the Company suffer damage to its reputation in the event of a system outage or data loss, but the Company may also be liable to third parties. Many of the Company’s contractual agreements with financial institutions require the payment of penalties if the Company’s systems do not meet certain operating standards. To successfully operate the Company’s business, the Company must be able to protect its processing and other systems from interruption, including from events that may be beyond the Company’s control. Events that could cause system interruptions include, but are not limited to, fire, natural disaster, unauthorized entry, power loss, telecommunciations failure, computer viruses, terrorist acts and war. Although the Company has taken steps to protect against data loss and system failures, there is still risk that it may lose critical data or experience system failures. The Company performs the vast majority of disaster recovery operations itself, though it utilizes select third parties for some aspects of recovery, particularly internationally. To the extent the Company outsources its disaster recovery, it is at risk of the vendor’s unresponsiveness in the event of breakdowns in the Company’s systems. Furthermore, the Company’s property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate it for all losses or failures that may occur. The Company may experience software defects, computer viruses and development delays, which could damage customer relations, decrease the Company’s potential profitability and expose it to liability. The Company’s products are based on sophisticated software and computing systems that often encounter development delays, and the underlying software may contain undetected errors, viruses or defects. Defects in the Company’s software products and errors or delays in the Company’s processing of electronic transactions could result in: • additional development costs; • diversion of technical and other resources from the Company’s other development efforts; • loss of credibility with current or potential customers; • harm to the Company’s reputation; or • exposure to liability claims. In addition, the Company relies on technologies supplied to it by third parties that may also contain undetected errors, viruses or defects that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Although the Company attempts to limit its potential liability for warranty claims through disclaimers in the Company’s software documentation and limitation-of-liability provisions in the Company’s license and customer agreements, the Company cannot assure that these measures will be successful in limiting the Company’s liability. Acquisitions and integrating such acquisitions create certain risks and may affect the Company’s operating results. The Company has been an active business acquirer both in the United States and internationally, and may continue to be active in the future. The acquisition and integration of businesses involves a number of risks. The core risks are in the areas of valuation (negotiating a fair price for the business based on inherently limited diligence) and integration (managing the complex process of integrating the acquired company’s people, products, technology and other assets so as to realize the projected value of the acquired company and the synergies projected to be realized in connection with the acquisition). In addition, international acquisitions often involve additional or increased risks including, for example: • managing geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; • integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; 29 • complying with foreign regulatory requirements; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • enforcement of intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; • difficulty entering new foreign markets due to, among other things, customer acceptance and business knowledge of these new markets; and • general economic and political conditions. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of the Company’s combined businesses and the possible loss of key personnel. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with acquisitions and the integration of the two companies’ operations could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 