ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are certain of the important risks that we face and that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements or information in this document. Please also see the “Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosures” in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The current state of the U.S. economy has and can be expected to have a material negative impact on consumer purchases of discretionary items, such as women’s apparel, which in turn can have a material adverse impact on the Company’s level of sales and profitability. Many factors affect the level of consumer spending in the apparel industry, including: · general business conditions; · consumer interest rates; · the availability of consumer credit; · taxation; · employment levels; · political conditions such as war, terrorism and political unrest; · the residential real estate market; and · increasing energy and food prices. The U.S. economy is currently experiencing significant and what may be worsening macro-economic issues, including tightening of U.S. credit markets, a residential real estate crisis, recessionary and inflationary pressures, high energy and food prices, the declining value of the U.S. dollar, higher unemployment rates and stock market volatility, which the Company believes has negatively impacted its business and may continue to do so in the near future. The Company believes that consumer purchases of discretionary items, including women’s apparel, have declined and may continue to decline during periods of a negative economic environment and other periods where discretionary income is lower. A continued downturn in the U.S. economy may adversely affect the Company’s level of sales and results of operations. A decline in consumer spending on apparel could reduce our sales and slow our growth. The industry in which we operate can be cyclical. Because apparel purchases are generally discretionary, declines in consumer spending patterns may impact us more negatively as an apparel retailer. Therefore, we may not be able to maintain our recent revenue or operating income levels if there is a decline in consumer spending patterns, and we may decide to slow or alter our growth plans. A reduction in the volume of mall traffic could significantly reduce our sales and leave us with unsold inventory. A significant portion of our current stores are located in shopping malls. Sales at these stores are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic in those malls. Our stores benefit from the ability of the malls’ “anchor” tenants, generally large department stores, and other area attractions to generate consumer traffic. Sales volume and mall traffic may be adversely affected by regional economic downturns, the closing of anchor department stores and competition from non-mall retailers and other malls where we do not have stores. Any of these events, or a decline in the desirability of the shopping environment of a particular mall or in the popularity of mall shopping generally among our customers, could reduce the number of customers visiting our stores and thus our level of sales and leave us with excess inventory. We may respond by increasing markdowns or initiating marketing promotions to reduce excess inventory, which could further decrease our merchandise margins and operating income. 6 We operate in the highly competitive retail industry and the size and resources of some of our competitors may allow them to compete more effectively than we can, which could result in loss of our market share. We face intense competition in the retail industry. We compete primarily with women’s apparel retailers, department stores, catalog retailers and Internet businesses that also engage in the retail sale of women’s apparel. We believe that the principal bases upon which we compete are the quality, design and price of our merchandise and the quality of our customer service. Many of our competitors are, and many of our potential competitors may be, larger and have greater financial, marketing and other resources and therefore may be able to adapt to changes in customer requirements more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products, generate greater national brand recognition or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. In addition, an increased level of promotions or discounted sales by our competitors may adversely affect response rates to our merchandise or to our own level of promotions or sales. As a result, we may lose market share, which could reduce our revenues, merchandise margins and operating income. Our inability to increase same-store sales could cause our earnings to decline. If our future same-store sales fail to increase, our earnings are likely to decline. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” Under Item 7. In addition, our results have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. For example, over the past twelve fiscal quarters, our quarterly same-store sales have ranged from an increase of 9% in the third quarter of fiscal 2008 to a decrease of 7% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. A variety of factors affect same-store sales, including fashion trends, competition, current economic conditions, pricing, inflation, the timing of the release of new merchandise and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, the success of marketing programs, timing and level of markdowns and weather conditions. These factors may cause our future same-store sales results to be materially lower than both our recent past performance and our expectations, which could cause declines in our quarterly earnings and stock price. If we are unable to anticipate or react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner, our sales, merchandise margins and operating income could decline. Our success largely depends on our ability to consistently gauge fashion trends and provide merchandise that satisfies customer demands in a timely manner. Any fashion missteps may affect merchandise quality and inventory levels, since we enter into agreements to manufacture and purchase our merchandise well in advance of the selling season for such merchandise. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately in a timely manner to changes in fashion trends could lead to lower sales, excess inventories and more frequent and larger markdowns, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. The Company may not be able to successfully reposition its Acorn segment. The Company acquired the Acorn concept in November 2004. Acorn sales and operating results have not met management’s expectations. In fiscal 2008, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $6.5 million related to the impairment of long-lived assets of the Acorn stores and a $3.6 million goodwill impairment charge. The realization of revenue growth and improved merchandise and operating margins related to Acorn will depend largely upon the Company’s ability to: · add recognized apparel brand merchandise to the Acorn assortment that results in favorable customer response and increased sales; · increase the penetration of the Acorn accessory category resulting in improved merchandise margins; and · refine the Acorn brand’s marketing and promotional programs and increase the number of regular Acorn customers. There can be no assurance that the Company can successfully execute any of the actions above or that the Company’s strategies for the Acorn brand will achieve the results necessary to generate positive operating results, particularly in this challenging economic environment. If the Company fails to improve Acorn’s operations or cannot successfully execute its growth strategy, the Company’s results will be adversely impacted and future impairment or other charges may be recognized. 7 We rely on the experience and skills of key personnel, the loss of whom could damage our ability to develop or successfully sell our merchandise. We believe we have benefited substantially from the leadership and strategic guidance of our key executives and members of our creative team, who are primarily responsible for developing our merchandise and reinforcing our brand identity. The loss, for any reason, of the services of any of these individuals could delay the implementation of our strategies. In addition, merchandise we develop without the guidance and direction of these key personnel may not receive the same level of acceptance, thereby resulting in a decline in sales, merchandise margins or both. Our results of operations could deteriorate if we fail to attract, develop and retain qualified employees. Our performance is dependent on attracting and retaining a large and growing number of employees. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, develop and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including store and administrative personnel. The turnover rate in the retail industry is high, and qualified individuals of the requisite caliber and number needed to fill open positions may be in short supply in some geographic areas or subject area disciplines. Significant increases in employee turnover rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if labor costs increase. Our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling our labor costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, minimum wage legislation, health care legislation and changing demographics. In addition, our labor costs are influenced by health care and workers’ compensation costs, both of which have been rising in recent years. If overall labor costs increase more than anticipated, it could negatively impact our earnings. We are highly dependent on foreign manufacturers and one buying agent and interruption in our foreign sourcing operations or in our agent relations could disrupt production, shipment or receipt of our merchandise, which would result in lost sales and could increase our costs. In fiscal 2008, approximately 78% of our merchandise was directly imported from foreign factories and our 10 largest suppliers accounted for approximately 50% of the merchandise we purchased. Substantially all of the Company’s directly imported merchandise is manufactured in Southeast Asia. Purchases from the Company’s largest overseas supplier accounted for approximately 18% of total purchases in fiscal 2008. The majority of these goods are produced in China, Hong Kong and Singapore. An adverse change in the status of our relationship with our largest supplier or any event causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing or imports from Asia or elsewhere, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, could materially harm our operations. In addition, approximately 47% of our merchandise purchases, all of which was manufactured in Asia, were sourced through a single buying agent. We are reducing our reliance on this agent and transitioning this agent’s business to other additional primary suppliers. A sudden disruption or termination in our relationship with this agent could adversely affect our supply of goods from the manufacturers we source through this buying agent. We have no long-term merchandise supply contracts, and we compete with other companies for production facilities and import quota capacity. Disruption in our foreign sourcing operations or buying agent relations could adversely impact our sales and earnings. Sourcing our products abroad poses various risks to our business. The vast majority of our products are manufactured to our specifications primarily by foreign manufacturers. We cannot control all of the various factors that might affect a manufacturer’s ability to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards. We expect all of our vendors to comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting our required standards of conduct. Our ability to find qualified manufacturers who meet our standards and supply products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge. Our sourcing operations may be hurt by political or financial instability, currency and exchange risks, disruption of imports by labor disputes and local business practices, trade restrictions, duties, tariffs, transportation capacity and costs, health concerns regarding infectious diseases in countries in which our merchandise is produced, to the extent these acts affect the production, shipment or receipt of merchandise. Late delivery of products or delivery of products that do not meet our quality standards could cause us to delay the timely delivery of merchandise to our stores. Our future operations and performance will be subject to these factors, which are beyond our control, and these factors could materially hurt our business, financial condition and results of operations or may require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs. We could also be adversely impacted by production delays resulting from various policies adopted by the Peoples’ Republic of China which seek to minimize pollution by limiting the operation of polluting agents in advance of the Beijing Olympics to be held during August 2008. 8 The cost or availability of raw materials could hurt our profitability. The raw materials used to manufacture our products are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by high demand for fabrics, weather, supply conditions, government regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. Increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials could hurt our profitability. Our ability to source our merchandise profitably or at all could be hurt if new trade restrictions are imposed or existing trade restrictions or quotas become more burdensome. Trade restrictions, including increased tariffs, safeguards or quotas, on apparel and accessories could increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise available to us. Under the World Trade Organization (“WTO”) Agreement, effective January 1, 2005, the U.S. and other WTO member countries removed quotas on goods from WTO members, which in certain instances affords us greater flexibility in importing textile and apparel products from WTO countries from which we source our merchandise. However, as the removal of quotas resulted in an import surge from China, the U.S. in May 2005 imposed safeguard quotas on seven categories of goods and apparel imported from China. Effective January 1, 2006, the U.S. imposed quotas on approximately twelve categories of goods and apparel from China, and may impose additional quotas in the future. These and other trade restrictions could have a significant impact on our sourcing patterns in the future. The extent of this impact, if any, and the possible effect on our purchasing patterns and costs, cannot be determined at this time. We cannot predict whether any of the countries in which our merchandise is currently manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to additional trade restrictions imposed by the U.S. and foreign governments, nor can we predict the likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions. Trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards and customs restrictions against apparel items, as well as U.S. or foreign labor strikes, work stoppages or boycotts could affect the import of such merchandise and could increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our plans to expand our store base may not be successful, which could impact our competitive position and our profitability. We opened 69 new stores in fiscal 2008. We plan to open approximately 30 new stores in fiscal 2009. Accomplishing our store expansion goals depends upon a number of factors, including locating suitable sites which will result in a level of sales that allows us to operate profitably, negotiating favorable lease terms and hiring and training qualified associates, particularly at the store management level. Failure to manage effectively these and other similar factors may affect our ability to lease new stores or increase our store operations costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our future profitability. We plan to open stores in new markets. The risks associated with entering a new market include difficulties in attracting customers due to a lack of customer familiarity with our brands, our lack of familiarity with local customer preferences and seasonal differences in the market. In addition, entry into new markets may bring us into competition with new competitors or with existing competitors with a large, established market presence. We cannot ensure that our new stores will be profitably deployed; as a result, our future profitability may be materially adversely affected. Our information systems are aging and may not be adequate to support our future growth, which could disrupt business operations. Components of our existing information systems are not state-of-the-art and have been in use for a number of years. Over the past several years, we have opened a significant number of new stores, which has placed additional demands on our existing information systems. In order to support future growth, we are undertaking significant information system implementations, modifications and/or upgrades at significant cost to us. Such projects involve inherent risks associated with replacing and/or changing existing systems, such as system disruptions and the failure to accurately capture data, among others. In addition, such upgrades may not be as effective as planned or yield the anticipated benefits. Any disruption in operation of our information systems due to system failures, natural disasters, accidents or other events affecting the ability to effectively use our data center, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, or our failure to effectively upgrade, integrate or expend capital on such systems, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 9 We depend significantly on a single operations and distribution facility. All of our administrative and distribution operations are housed in a single facility. A significant interruption in the operation of this facility due to natural disasters, accidents or other events could reduce our ability to receive and provide merchandise to our stores as well as reduce our ability to administer and oversee our business, which could reduce our sales and results of operations. Our future office space needs are likely to exceed the capacity of our current facility, which could adversely impact our future operations or cost structure. The office space in our current headquarters facility is fully utilized and limits our ability to add additional staff. If we are unable to locate additional or alternate facilities to adequately address our future office space needs, it may adversely impact our ability to add needed personnel, operate efficiently or provide a conducive work environment, all of which could adversely impact our future operations. In addition, the cost of additional or alternate facilities could negatively impact our future earnings. Failure to deliver merchandise from our distribution center to our stores by a third party could result in lost sales or reduced demand for our merchandise. The success of our stores depends on their timely receipt of merchandise from our distribution center. An independent third party transportation company delivers our merchandise to our stores. This third party employs personnel represented by a labor union. Disruptions in the delivery of merchandise or work stoppages by employees of this third party could delay the timely receipt of merchandise, which could result in lost sales, a loss of loyalty to our brands and the late receipt of inventory when it is no longer seasonally appropriate. Timely receipt of merchandise by our stores may also be affected by factors such as inclement weather, natural disasters, accidents, system failures and acts of terrorism. We may respond by increasing markdowns or initiating marketing promotions, which would decrease our merchandise margins and operating income. There are risks associated with our e-commerce sales. We sell merchandise over the Internet through our websites, www.christopherandbanks.com and www.cjbanks.com. Our e-commerce operations are subject to numerous risks, including: · reliance on third party computer hardware/software and order fulfillment providers; · rapid technological change; · diversion of sales from our stores; · liability for online content; · violations of state or federal privacy laws; · credit card fraud; · risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate our websites and their related support systems, including computer viruses; · telecommunications failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions; and · timely delivery of our merchandise to our customers by third parties. There is no assurance that our e-commerce operations will meet our sales and profitability plans. Failure to comply with privacy and information security laws could adversely impact our business or reputation. The use of individually identifiable data by our business and our business associates is regulated at the federal and state levels. Privacy and information security laws and regulations change, and compliance with them may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes and the development of new administrative processes. If we or our business associates fail to comply with these laws and regulations or experience a data security breach, our reputation could be damaged, possibly resulting in lost future business, and we could be subjected to additional legal risk as a result of such non-compliance. 10 The extent to which we may or may not be able to secure and protect trademarks and other intellectual property rights may adversely affect our business and financial performance. We believe that our “Christopher & Banks” and “C.J. Banks” trademarks are important to our success. Even though we register and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights, there is no assurance that our actions will protect us from the prior registration by others or prevent others from infringing our trademarks and proprietary rights or seeking to block sales of our products as infringements of their trademarks and proprietary rights. If we cannot adequately protect our marks or prevent infringement of them, our business and financial performance could suffer. The effects of war, terrorism or other catastrophes could materially adversely impact our business. Threat of terrorists attacks or actual terrorist events in the United States and worldwide could disrupt the production, shipment or receipt of our merchandise or lead to lower client traffic in regional shopping centers. Natural disasters could also impact our ability to open and run our stores in affected areas. Lower customer traffic due to security concerns, war or the threat of war and natural disasters could result in decreased sales that would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no matters which are required to be reported under Item 1B. 