Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties which could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our business is subject to economic, credit and business factors affecting the trucking industry that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The factors that have negatively affected us, and may do so in the future, include volatile fuel prices, excess capacity in the trucking industry, surpluses in the market for used equipment, higher interest rates, higher license and registration fees, increases in insurance premiums, higher self-insurance levels, increases in accidents and adverse claims and difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers and independent contractors. We are also affected by recessionary economic cycles, such as the period from 2007 to 2009, and by downturns in customers’ business cycles. Economic conditions may adversely affect our customers and their ability to pay for our services. It is not possible to predict the effects of armed conflicts or terrorist attacks and subsequent events on the economy or on consumer confidence in the United States, or the impact, if any, on our future results of operations. There has been widespread concern over the credit markets and their effect on the economy. If the economy and credit markets weaken our business, financial results, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, especially if consumer confidence declines and domestic spending decreases. Additionally, the stresses in the credit market have caused uncertainty in the equity markets. Although some stability has returned to the equity markets, there still exists enough economic uncertainty that could cause the market price of our securities to be volatile. If the credit markets erode, we also may not be able to access our current sources of credit and our lenders may not have the capital to fund those sources. We may need to incur additional indebtedness or issue debt or equity securities in the future to refinance existing debt, fund working capital requirements, make investments, or for general corporate purposes. As a result of contractions in the credit market, as well as other economic trends in the credit market industry, we may not be able to secure financing for future activities on satisfactory terms, or at all. If we are not successful in obtaining sufficient financing because we are unable to access the capital markets on financially economical or feasible terms, it could impact our ability to provide services to our customers and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial results, current operations, results of operations, and potential investments. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry, and our business may suffer if we are unable to adequately address downward pricing pressures and other factors that may adversely affect our ability to compete with other carriers. Numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to achieve and maintain profitability. These factors include: · We compete with many other truckload carriers of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with less-than-truckload carriers and railroads, some of which have more equipment or greater capital resources, or other competitive advantages. · Some of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of economic slowdown, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates, maintain our margins or maintain growth in our business. · Some of our customers also operate their own private trucking fleets and they may decide to transport more of their own freight. · Many customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting so-called “core carriers” as approved service providers, and in some instances we may not be selected. · Many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some of our business to competitors. · The trend toward consolidation in the trucking industry may create large carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages relating to their size, and we may have difficulty competing with these larger carriers. · Advances in technology require increased investments to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher freight rates to cover the cost of these investments. · Competition from internet-based and other logistics and freight brokerage companies may adversely affect our customer relationships and freight rates. · Economies of scale that may be passed on to smaller carriers by procurement aggregation providers may improve their ability to compete with us. We have a recent history of net losses and may be unsuccessful in improving our profitability. 11 For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we incurred net losses of $10.8 million, $3.3 million and $7.2 million, respectively. Achieving profitability depends upon numerous factors, including our ability to increase our average revenue per tractor, increase Velocity, and control expenses. We might not achieve profitability or, if we do, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability in the future. If we are unable to achieve profitability, our liquidity, financial position, and results of operations may be adversely affected. We are attempting to improve our financial and operating results through our VEVA Plan, which is aimed at better cost controls, streamlining processes, and performance-based discipline and accountability. We may be unsuccessful in implementing our plan effectively or achieving sustainable improvement from these efforts. Further, we may devote a significant amount of management and financial resources and not achieve the desired results. We may not be successful in implementing new management and operating procedures and cost savings initiatives. We have made changes to our management team and structure, as well as our operating procedures recently. These changes may not be successful or may not achieve the desired results. We may require additional training or different personnel to implement successfully these procedures, all of which may result in additional expense, delays in obtaining results, or disruptions to our operations. Some of these changes include customer service and driver management changes and cost savings initiatives. These changes and initiatives may not improve our results of operations, including miles per tractor, system velocity, seated truck count, and base revenue per mile. In addition, we may not be successful in achieving the expected savings in our cost structure. In such event, our revenue, financial results, and ability to operate profitably could be negatively impacted. Further, our operating results may be negatively affected by a failure to further penetrate our existing customer base, cross-sell our services, pursue new customer opportunities, and manage the operations and expenses of our new or growing services. Ongoing insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings. If the number or severity of claims increases or if the costs associated with claims otherwise increase, our operating results will be adversely affected. The time that such costs are incurred may significantly impact our operating results for a particular quarter, as compared to the comparable quarter in the prior year. In addition, if we were to lose our ability to self-insure for any significant period of time, our insurance costs would materially increase and we could experience difficulty in obtaining adequate levels of coverage. Due to our significant self-insured amounts, we have significant exposure to fluctuations in the number and severity of claims and the risk of being required to accrue or pay additional amounts if our estimates are revised or the claims ultimately prove to be more severe than originally assessed. We could experience increases in our insurance premiums in the future if we have an increase in coverage, a reduction in our self-retention level or if our claims experience deteriorates. If our insurance or claims expense increases, and we are unable to offset the increase with higher freight rates, our earnings could be materially and adversely affected. Our Credit Agreement and other financing arrangements contain certain covenants, restrictions, and requirements, and we may be unable to comply with the covenant, restrictions, and requirements. A default could result in the acceleration of all or part of our outstanding indebtedness, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, and the price of our common stock. We have a $100.0 million Credit Agreement with a group of banks and numerous other financing arrangements. The Credit Agreement contains certain restrictions and covenants relating to, among other things, dividends, liens, acquisitions and dispositions outside of the ordinary course of business, affiliate transactions, and various financial covenants. On March 8, 2012, we entered into a Second Amendment to Credit Agreement to revise some of our debt covenants, which we believe will allow us more flexibility as we implement our action plan. Certain other financing arrangements contain certain restrictions and covenants, as well. If we fail to comply with any of our financing arrangement covenants, restrictions, and requirements, we will be in default under the relevant agreement, which could cause cross-defaults under our other financing arrangements. In the event of any such default, if we failed to obtain replacement financing, amendments to, or waivers under the applicable financing arrangements, our lenders could cease making further advances, declare our debt to be immediately due and payable, fail to renew letters of credit, impose significant restrictions and requirements on our operations, institute foreclosure procedures against their collateral, or impose significant fees and transaction costs. If acceleration occurs, it may be difficult or expensive to refinance the accelerated debt or we may have to issue equity securities, which would dilute stock ownership. Even if new financing is made available to us, more stringent borrowing terms may mean that credit is not available to us on acceptable terms. A default under our financing arrangements could cause a materially adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. We have significant ongoing capital requirements that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations, or obtain financing on favorable terms. The truckload industry is capital intensive. Historically, we have depended on cash from operations, borrowings from banks and finance companies, and lease instruments to expand and upgrade our revenue equipment. We expect that capital expenditures to replace and upgrade our revenue equipment will increase from the levels we experienced in 2010 and 2011. The additional expenditures will be required to upgrade our tractor and trailer fleet, which has increased in age over the historical average age, and to expand our revenue equipment fleet, as justified by increased freight volumes. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations and obtain borrowing on favorable terms in the future, we may have to limit our fleet size, enter into less favorable financing arrangements, or operate our revenue equipment for longer periods. Accordingly, we may be unable to decrease the age of, or expand, our tractor and trailer fleet, which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition. 12 We depend on the proper functioning and availability of our information systems. We depend on the proper functioning and availability of our communications and data processing systems in operating our business. Our information systems are protected through physical and software safeguards. However, they are still vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins and similar events. We do not have a formally documented catastrophic disaster recovery plan or a fully redundant alternate processing capability. If any of our critical information systems fail or become otherwise unavailable, we would have to perform the functions manually, which could temporarily impact our ability to manage our fleet efficiently, to respond to customers’ requests effectively, to maintain billing and other records reliably and to bill for services accurately or in a timely manner. Our business interruption insurance may be inadequate to protect us in the event of a catastrophe. Any system failure, security breach or other damage could interrupt or delay our operations, damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are in the midst of a multi-year process to migrate our legacy mainframe platform and internally developed software applications to server-based platforms. We purchased off-the-shelf products for our core software needs, and developed value-added decision-support software applications internally. In July 2011, we migrated our Operations system from our legacy mainframe onto off-the-shelf software, which had a significant adverse effect on our business and operating results. Although this was the most significant and risky part of our multi-year process, we have a few remaining systems to convert which could also cause delays, complications or additional costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We depend on our major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from our major customers. For fiscal year 2011, our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 31% of our revenue, our top five customers accounted for approximately 21% of our revenue and our largest customer accounted for approximately 6% of our revenue. Economic conditions and capital markets may adversely affect our customers and their ability to remain solvent. Our customers’ financial difficulties can negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition, especially if our customers were to delay or default on payments to us. Generally, we do not have long-term contracts with our major customers and we cannot assure you that our customer relationships will continue as presently in effect. A reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we are unable to retain our key executives, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. We are dependent upon the services of our executive management team. We do not maintain key-person life insurance on any members of our management team. The loss of their services could have a material adverse effect on our operations and future profitability. We must continue to develop and retain a core group of managers if we are to realize our goal of expanding our operations, improve our earnings consistency and position ourselves for long-term revenue growth. We operate in a highly regulated industry, and changes in existing regulations or violations of existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. We operate in the United States pursuant to operating authority granted by the DOT and in various Canadian provinces pursuant to operating authority granted by the Ministries of Transportation and Communications in such provinces. Our Company drivers and independent contractors also must comply with the safety and fitness regulations of the DOT, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours-of-service. Such matters as weight and equipment dimensions also are subject to government regulations. We also may become subject to new or more restrictive regulations relating to fuel emissions, drivers’ hours-of-service, ergonomics, on-board reporting of operations, collective bargaining, security at ports and other matters affecting safety or operating methods. 13 In December 2011, the FMCSA issued new rules regarding drivers’ hours-of-service, and the result could negatively impact utilization of our equipment. The rules require drivers to take 30-minute breaks after eight hours of consecutive driving and reduce the total number of hours a driver is permitted to work during each week from 82 to 70. The 2011 rule also provides that the 34-hour restart may only be used once per week and must include two rest periods between one a.m. and five a.m. These rule changes are scheduled to become effective July 1, 2013. We anticipate that the 2011 rule will be challenged prior to its effective date. We are unable to predict how a court may rule on challenges to such rules and to what extent the FMCSA might attempt to materially revise the rules. On the whole, however, we believe that the new rules will decrease productivity and cause some loss of efficiency, as drivers and shippers may need to be retrained, computer programming may require modifications, additional drivers may need to be employed or engaged, additional equipment may need to be acquired, and some shipping lanes may need to be reconfigured. We are also unable to predict the effect of any new rules that might be proposed if the issued rule is stricken by a court, but any such proposed rules could increase costs in our industry or decrease productivity. Failures to comply with DOT safety regulations or downgrades in our safety rating could have a material adverse impact on our operations or financial condition. A downgrade in our safety rating could cause us to lose the ability to self-insure. The loss of our ability to self-insure for any significant period of time would materially increase our insurance costs. In addition, we may experience difficulty in obtaining adequate levels of coverage in that event. Under the revised rating system being considered by the FMCSA, our safety rating would be evaluated more regularly, and our safety rating would reflect a more in-depth assessment of safety-based violations. During December 2010, the DOT launched CSA, a new enforcement and compliance model implementing driver standards in addition to our current standards. As discussed more fully below, CSA may reduce the number of eligible drivers and/or negatively impact our fleet ranking. Additionally, FMCSA rules and practices followed by regulators may require us to install electronic, on-board recorders in our tractors if we experience unfavorable compliance with rules or receive an adverse change in safety rating. Such installation could cause an increase in driver turnover, adverse information in litigation, cost increases and decreased asset utilization. Other agencies, such as the EPA and the Department of Homeland Security also regulate our equipment, operations and drivers. Future laws and regulations may be more stringent, require changes in our operating practices, influence the demand for transportation services, or require us to incur significant additional costs. Higher costs incurred by us or by our suppliers who pass the costs onto us through higher prices could adversely affect our results of operations. In the aftermath of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, federal, state and municipal authorities implemented and continue to implement various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. The Transportation Security Administration (the “TSA”) has adopted regulations that require determination by the TSA that each driver who applies for or renews his license for carrying hazardous materials is not a security threat. This could reduce the pool of qualified drivers, which could require us to increase driver compensation, limit fleet growth, or let trucks sit idle. These regulations also could complicate the matching of available equipment with hazardous material shipments, thereby increasing our response time and our deadhead miles on customer shipments. As a result, it is possible that we may fail to meet the needs of our customers or may incur increased expenses to do so. These security measures could negatively impact our operating results. EPA regulations limiting exhaust emissions became more restrictive in 2010. On May 21, 2010, President Obama signed an executive memorandum directing the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (“NHTSA”) and the EPA to develop new, stricter fuel efficiency standards for heavy trucks, beginning in 2014. On October 25, 2010, the NHTSA and EPA proposed regulations that regulate fuel efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions, beginning in 2014. In December 2008, California adopted new performance requirements for diesel trucks, with targets to be met between 2011 and 2023, and California also has adopted aerodynamics requirements for certain trailers. These regulations, as well as proposed regulations or legislation related to climate change that potentially impose restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gas, could adversely affect our operations and financial results. In addition, increasing efforts to control emissions of greenhouse gases are likely to have an impact on us. The EPA has announced a finding relating to greenhouse gas emissions that may result in promulgation of greenhouse gas emission limits. Federal and state lawmakers also are considering a variety of climate-change proposals. Compliance with such regulations could increase the cost of new tractors and trailers, impair equipment productivity and increase operating expenses. These effects, combined with the uncertainty as to the operating results that will be produced by the newly designed diesel engines and the residual values of these vehicles, could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business or operations. 14 In order to reduce exhaust emissions, some states and municipalities have begun to restrict the locations and amount of time where diesel-powered tractors, such as ours, may idle. These restrictions could force us to alter our drivers’ behavior, purchase on-board power units that do not require the engine to idle, or face a decrease in productivity. From time to time, various federal, state, or local taxes are increased, including taxes on fuels. We cannot predict whether, or in what form, any such increase applicable to us will be enacted, but such an increase could adversely affect our profitability. CSA could adversely affect our profitability and operations, our ability to maintain or grow our fleet, and our customer relationships. Under CSA, drivers and fleets are evaluated and ranked based on certain safety-related standards. The methodology for determining a carrier’s DOT safety rating has been expanded to include the on-road safety performance of the carrier’s drivers. As a result, certain current and potential drivers may no longer be eligible to drive for us, our fleet could be ranked poorly as compared to our peer firms, and our safety rating could be adversely impacted. A reduction in eligible drivers or a poor fleet ranking may result in difficulty attracting and retaining qualified drivers, and could cause our customers to direct their business away from us and to carriers with higher fleet rankings, which would adversely affect our results of operations. From time to time we may, and in the past have, exceeded the established intervention thresholds under certain categories. Based on these unfavorable ratings, our drivers may be prioritized for intervention action or roadside inspection by regulatory authorities, and our customers may be less likely to assign loads to us. Additionally, we may incur greater than expected expenses in our attempts to improve our scores. Decreases in the availability of new tractors and trailers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. From time to time, some tractor and trailer vendors have reduced their manufacturing output due, for example, to lower demand for their products in economic downturns or a shortage of component parts. As conditions changed, some of those vendors have had difficulty fulfilling the increased demand for new equipment. There have been periods when we were unable to purchase as much new revenue equipment as we needed to sustain our desired growth rate and to maintain a late-model fleet. We may experience similar difficulties in future periods. Also, to meet the more restrictive EPA emissions standards in 2007 and in January 2010, vendors have had to introduce new engine technology. An inability to continue to obtain an adequate supply of new tractors or trailers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in the price or availability of fuel, hedging activities, the volume and terms of diesel fuel purchase commitments, surcharge collection and surcharge policies approved by customers may increase our costs of operation, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Fuel is one of our largest operating expenses. Diesel fuel prices fluctuate greatly due to economic, political, natural and other factors beyond our control. Fuel also is subject to regional pricing differences. From time to time we may use hedging contracts and volume purchase arrangements to attempt to limit the effect of price fluctuations. If we do hedge, we may be forced to make cash payments under the hedging arrangements. We use a fuel surcharge program to recapture a portion of the increases in fuel prices over a base rate negotiated with our customers. Our fuel surcharge program does not protect us from the full effect of increases in fuel prices. The terms of each customer’s fuel surcharge program vary and certain customers have sought to modify the terms of their fuel surcharge programs to minimize recoverability for fuel price increases. Over the past year, the failure to recover fuel price increases resulted in a materially negative impact to our results of operations. For example, this week’s fuel surcharge rate is based on last week’s national average diesel price. Thus, in periods of rising prices, our fuel surcharge is based on last week’s lower diesel price while we are paying this week’s higher diesel price at the pump. Also, during times of low freight volumes, shippers can use their negotiating leverage to impose less compensatory fuel surcharge policies. A failure to improve our fuel price protection through these measures, further increases in fuel prices, or a shortage of diesel fuel, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 15 Increases in driver compensation or difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers could adversely affect our profitability. Like many truckload carriers, from time to time we experience substantial difficulty in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified drivers, including independent contractors. In addition, due in part to current economic conditions, including the higher cost of fuel, insurance and tractors, the available pool of independent contractor drivers has been declining. Regulatory requirements, including the new CSA program have also reduced the number of eligible drivers. Because of the shortage of qualified drivers and intense competition for drivers from other trucking companies, we expect to continue to face difficulty increasing the number of our drivers, including independent contractor drivers. The compensation we offer our drivers and independent contractors is subject to market conditions, and we may find it necessary to continue to increase driver and independent contractor compensation in future periods. In addition, we and our industry suffer from a high driver turnover rate. Our high turnover rate requires us to continually recruit a substantial number of drivers in order to operate existing revenue equipment. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain a sufficient number of drivers, we could be required to adjust our compensation packages, let tractors sit idle, or operate with fewer tractors and face difficulty meeting shipper demands, all of which would adversely affect our growth and profitability. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the transportation and handling of hazardous materials, fuel storage tanks, air emissions from our vehicles and facilities, engine idling, and discharge and retention of storm water. We operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination may have occurred. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. We also maintain above-ground bulk fuel storage tanks and fueling islands at four of our facilities and one leased facility has below-ground bulk fuel storage tanks. A small percentage of our freight consists of low-grade hazardous substances, which subjects us to a wide array of regulations. Although we have instituted programs to monitor and control environmental risks and promote compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, if we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, if there are releases of hazardous substances we transport, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to liabilities, including substantial fines or penalties or civil and criminal liability, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. Regulations limiting exhaust emissions became effective in 2002 and became progressively more restrictive in 2007 and January 2010. Engines manufactured after October 2002 generally cost more, produce lower fuel mileage, and require additional maintenance compared with earlier models. Of our existing tractor fleet, 97.3% are equipped with the 2007 and 2010 emission standard engines. These adverse effects, combined with the uncertainty as to the reliability of the newly designed diesel engines and the residual values of these vehicles, could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business or operations. If we cannot effectively manage the challenges associated with doing business internationally, our revenues and profitability may suffer. An integral component of our operations is the business we conduct in Mexico and, to a lesser extent Canada, and we are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in foreign currencies, changes in the economic strength of the countries in which we do business, difficulties in enforcing contractual obligations and intellectual property rights, burdens of complying with a wide variety of international and United States export and import laws, and social, political, and economic instability. Additional risks associated with our foreign operations, including restrictive trade policies and imposition of duties, taxes, or government royalties by foreign governments, are present but largely mitigated by the terms of NAFTA. Seasonality and the impact of weather affect our operations and profitability. Our tractor productivity decreases during the winter season because inclement weather impedes operations, and some shippers reduce their shipments after the winter holiday season. Revenue can also be affected by bad weather and holidays, since revenue is directly related to available working days of shippers. At the same time, operating expenses increase, with fuel efficiency declining because of engine idling and harsh weather creating higher accident frequency, increased claims and more equipment repairs. We could also suffer short-term impacts from weather-related events such as hurricanes, blizzards, ice storms and floods that could harm our results or make our results more volatile. 16 Increased prices, reduced productivity, design changes of new engines, and restricted availability of new revenue equipment and fluctuations in the prices of used revenue equipment may adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. We are subject to risk with respect to prices for new tractors. Prices may increase, among other reasons, due to government regulations applicable to newly manufactured tractors and diesel engines and due to commodity prices and pricing power among equipment manufacturers. More restrictive Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, emissions standards that began in 2002 with additional new requirements implemented in 2007 and January 2010 have required vendors to introduce new engines. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to continue to obtain an adequate supply of new tractors and trailers. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 97.3% of our tractor fleet was comprised of tractors with engines that met the EPA mandated clean air standards that became effective in 2007 and 2010. Tractors that meet the 2007 and 2010 standards are more expensive than non-compliant tractors, and we expect to continue to pay increased prices for equipment as we continue to increase the percentage of our fleet that meets the EPA mandated clean air standards. Further, as with any engine redesign, there is a risk that the newly-designed engines will have unforeseen problems that could adversely impact our business. In addition, a decreased demand for used revenue equipment could adversely affect our business and operating results. We rely on the sale and trade-in of used revenue equipment to partially offset the cost of new revenue equipment. The market demand for used equipment has been difficult to forecast and, although our equipment disposal schedule may fluctuate, we currently expect the market demand and gains on disposal in 2012 to remain at levels similar to those of 2011. When the used equipment market is weak, it may increase our net capital expenditures for new revenue equipment, decrease our gains on sale of revenue equipment (or create a loss on sale of revenue equipment), or increase our maintenance costs if management decides to extend the use of revenue equipment in a depressed market, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We depend on third parties, particularly in our brokerage and rail intermodal businesses, and service instability from these providers could increase our operating costs and reduce our ability to offer brokerage and rail intermodal services, which could adversely affect our revenue, results of operations and customer relationships. Our brokerage business is dependent upon the services of third-party capacity providers, including other truckload carriers. These third-party providers seek other freight opportunities and may require increased compensation in times of improved freight demand or tight trucking capacity. Our inability to secure the services of these third parties, or increases in the prices we must pay to secure such services, could have an adverse effect on our operations and profitability. Our rail intermodal business utilizes railroads and some third-party drayage carriers to transport freight for our customers. In most markets, rail service is limited to a few railroads or even a single railroad. Any reduction in service by the railroads with which we have or in the future may have relationships is likely to increase the cost of the rail-based services we provide and reduce the reliability, timeliness, and overall attractiveness of our rail-based intermodal services. Furthermore, railroads increase shipping rates as market conditions permit. Price increases could result in higher costs to our customers and reduce or eliminate our ability to offer intermodal services. In addition, we may not be able to negotiate additional contracts with railroads to expand our capacity, add additional routes, or obtain multiple providers, which could limit our ability to provide this service. 17 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved written SEC staff comments regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 received 180 days or more before the end of the fiscal year to which this annual report on Form 10-K relates. 