Item 1A. RISK FACTORS This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our business, operating results, financial performance, and share price may be materially adversely affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to the following risk factors, any one of which could cause actual results to vary materially from anticipated results or from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us in this annual report on Form 10-K or in other reports, press releases or other statements issued from time to time. Additional factors that may cause such a difference are set forth elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to our Business Any adverse development relating to our HuCNS-SC product candidate, such as a significant clinical trial failure, could substantially depress our stock price and prevent us from raising additional capital. At present, our ability to progress as a company is significantly dependent on a single product candidate, our HuCNS-SC cells (purified human neural stem cells), and on early stage clinical trials. Any clinical, regulatory or other development that significantly delays or prevents us from completing any of our trials, any material safety issue or adverse side effect to any study participant in any of these trials, or the failure of these trials to show the 27 Table of Contents results expected would likely depress our stock price significantly and could prevent us from raising the substantial additional capital we will need to further develop our cell technologies. Moreover, any material adverse occurrence in our first clinical trials could substantially impair our ability to initiate additional clinical trials to test our HuCNS-SC cells, whether in other potential indications or otherwise. This, in turn, could adversely impact our ability to raise additional capital and pursue our planned research and development efforts. We have limited capital resources and we may not obtain the significant additional capital needed to sustain our research and development efforts. We have limited liquidity and capital resources and must obtain significant additional capital resources in order to sustain our product development efforts, acquire businesses, technologies and intellectual property rights which may be important to our business, continue preclinical and clinical testing of our therapeutic products, pursue regulatory approvals, acquire capital equipment, laboratory and office facilities, establish production capabilities, maintain and enforce our intellectual property portfolio, and support our general and administrative expenses and other working capital requirements. In addition, we will require additional capital resources to continue to develop and grow our enabling cell technologies programs. We rely on cash reserves and proceeds from equity and debt offerings, proceeds from the transfer, license, lease, or sale of our intellectual property rights, equipment, facilities, or investments, and government grants and funding from collaborative arrangements, if obtainable, to fund our operations. We intend to pursue opportunities for additional fundraising in the future through equity or debt financings, corporate alliances or combinations, grants or collaborative research arrangements, sales or dispositions of assets, or any combination of these. However, external financing in the current financial environment may be particularly difficult, and the source, timing and availability of any future fundraising will depend principally upon market conditions, and, more specifically, on progress in our research, preclinical and clinical development programs. Funding may not be available when needed — at all or on terms acceptable to us. While we actively manage our programs and resources in order to conserve cash between fundraising opportunities, our existing capital resources may not be sufficient to fund our operations beyond the next twelve months. Lack of necessary funds may require us, among other things, to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our research and product development programs, planned clinical trials, and/or our capital expenditures or to license our potential products or technologies to third parties. If we exhaust our cash reserves and are unable to realize adequate additional fundraising, we may be unable to meet operating obligations and be required to initiate bankruptcy proceedings or delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our research and product development programs. Our product development programs are based on novel technologies and are inherently risky. We are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of products based on new technologies. The novel nature of these therapies creates significant challenges in regard to product development and optimization, manufacturing, government regulation, third party reimbursement, and market acceptance. For example, the pathway to regulatory approval for cell-based therapies, including our therapeutic product candidates, may be more complex and lengthy than the pathway for conventional drugs. These challenges may prevent us from developing and commercializing products on a timely or profitable basis or at all. Our technologies are at early stages of discovery and development, and we may fail to develop any commercially acceptable or profitable products. We have incurred significant operating losses and negative cash flows since inception. We have not achieved profitability and may not be able to realize sufficient revenue to achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We have yet to develop any therapeutic products that have been approved for marketing, and we do not expect to become profitable within the next several years, but rather expect to incur additional and increasing operating losses. Before commercializing any therapeutic product, we will need to obtain regulatory approval from the FDA or from equivalent foreign agencies after conducting extensive preclinical studies and clinical 28 Table of Contents trials that demonstrate that the product candidate is safe and effective. Except for the Phase I NCL and Phase I PMD trials we completed, and our currently ongoing PhaseI/II clinical trial in spinal cord injury, we have had no experience conducting human clinical trials. We expect that none of our cell-based therapeutic product candidates will be commercially available for several years, if at all. While regulatory agencies in the United States and Switzerland have approved the clinical study of our cells in a total of four indications, there can be no assurance that any of our clinical trials will be completed or result in a successful outcome. We may elect to delay or discontinue studies or clinical trials based on unfavorable results. Any product developed from, or based on, cell technologies may fail to: • survive and persist in the desired location; • provide the intended therapeutic benefit; • engraft into existing tissue in the desired manner; or • achieve therapeutic benefits equal to, or better than, the standard of treatment at the time of testing. In addition, our therapeutic products may cause undesirable side effects. Results of preclinical research in animals may not be indicative of future clinical results in humans. Ultimately if regulatory authorities do not approve our products or if we fail to maintain regulatory compliance, we would be unable to commercialize our products, and our business and results of operations would be harmed. Even if we do succeed in developing products, we will face many potential obstacles such as the need to develop or obtain manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities. Furthermore, because transplantation of cells is a new form of therapy, the marketplace may not accept any products we may develop. Moreover, because our cell-based therapeutic products will be derived from tissue of individuals other than the patient (that is, they will be “non-self” or “allogeneic” transplant products), patients will likely require the use of immunosuppressive drugs. While immunosuppression is now standard in connection with allogeneic transplants of various kinds, such as heart or liver transplants, long-term maintenance on immunosuppressive drugs can result in complications such as infection, cancer, cardiovascular disease, and renal dysfunction. An immunosuppression regimen was used with our therapeutic product candidate in all our clinical trials to date, and is included in the protocol for our clinical trial for dry age-related macular degeneration. Our success will depend in large part on our ability to develop and commercialize products that treat diseases other than Pelizeaus-Merzbacher Disease (PMD), NCL or other rare diseases. Although our initial clinical trials have initially focused on evaluating our neural stem cell product for the treatment of infantile and late infantile NCL (Batten disease) and for Pelizeaus-Merzbacher Disease, these diseases are rare and the markets for treating these diseases are small. Accordingly, even if we obtain marketing approval for our HuCNS-SC product candidate for NCL or for PMD, in order to achieve profitability, we will likely need to obtain approval to treat additional diseases that present more significant market opportunities. Acquisitions of companies, businesses or technologies may substantially dilute our stockholders and increase our operating losses. We may make acquisitions of businesses, technologies or intellectual property rights or otherwise modify our business model in ways we believe to be necessary, useful or complementary to our current business. For example, in April 2009, we acquired substantially all of the operating assets and liabilities of Stem Cell Sciences Plc (SCS). Any such acquisition or change in business activities may require assimilation of the operations, products or product candidates and personnel of the acquired business and the training and integration of its 29 Table of Contents employees, and could substantially increase our operating costs, without any offsetting increase in revenue. Acquisitions may not provide the intended technological, scientific or business benefits and could disrupt our operations and divert our limited resources and management’s attention from our current operations, which could harm our existing product development efforts. We would likely issue equity securities to pay for any other future acquisitions. The issuance of equity securities for an acquisition could be substantially dilutive to our stockholders. Any investment made in, or funds advanced to, a potential acquisition target could also significantly adversely affect our results of operation and could further reduce our limited capital resources. Any acquisition or action taken in anticipation of a potential acquisition or other change in business activities could substantially depress the price of our stock. In addition, our results of operations may suffer because of acquisition-related costs or the post-acquisition costs of funding the development of an acquired technology or product candidates or operation of the acquired business, or due to amortization or impairment costs for acquired goodwill and other intangible assets. In December 2011, for example, we determined that the intangible in-process research and development (IPR&D) asset related to the assays technology was impaired. In part because of management’s decision to focus on our therapeutic product development programs and not to allocate time and resources to the assays program, we determined that we could not predict the future cash flows from this asset and that the approximately $655,000 carrying value of the asset should be written-off in full. Costs and disruptions from the management of the acquired SCS business may impair our business. In April 2009, we acquired substantially all of the operating assets and liabilities of SCS, including its former subsidiaries in England and Australia. To realize the anticipated benefits of this acquisition, we must successfully manage and coordinate business operations in multiple geographies, which is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. Therefore we devote a significant amount of our management’s time and attention to managing our operations outside the United States. As a result, we may have difficulty maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, consultants and collaborators. We may also encounter incompatible methods, practices or policies or unanticipated difficulties integrating information technology, communications and other systems. Managing our consolidated operations may also entail numerous operational, legal and financial risks and uncertainties. We have payment obligations resulting from real property owned or leased by us in Rhode Island, which diverts funding from our cell-based therapeutics research and development and enabling cell technologies programs. Prior to our reorganization in 1999 and the consolidation of our business in California, we carried out our former encapsulated cell therapy programs in Lincoln, Rhode Island, where we also had our administrative offices. Although we have vacated the Rhode Island facilities, we remain obligated to make lease payments and payments for operating costs for our former science and administrative facility, which we have leased through June 30, 2013. These costs, before sub-tenant rental income, amounted to approximately $1,863,000 in 2011; our rent payments will increase over the term of the lease, and our operating costs may increase as well. In addition to these costs of our former science and administrative facility, we are obligated to make debt service payments and payments for operating costs of approximately $400,000 per year for our former encapsulated cell therapy pilot manufacturing facility, which we own. We have currently subleased a portion of the science and administrative facility, and we are seeking to sublease the remaining portion, but we cannot be sure that we will be able to keep any part of the facility subleased for the duration of our obligation. We are currently seeking to sublease the pilot manufacturing facility, but may not be able to sublease or sell the facility in the future. These continuing costs significantly reduce our cash resources and adversely affect our ability to fund further development of our cell technologies. In addition, changes in real estate market conditions and assumptions regarding the length of time it may take us to either fully sublease, assign or sell our remaining interest in the our former research facility in Rhode Island may have a significant impact on and cause large variations in our quarter to quarter results of operations. In 1999, in connection with exiting our former research facility in Rhode Island, we created a reserve for the estimated lease payments and operating expenses related to it. The reserve is periodically re-evaluated and adjusted based on assumptions relevant to real estate market conditions and the 30 Table of Contents estimated time until we can either fully sublease, assign or sell our remaining interests in the property. At December 31, 2011, the reserve was $2,135,000. For the year 2011, we incurred $1,248,000 in operating expenses net of sub-tenant income for this facility. Expenses for this facility will fluctuate based on changes in tenant occupancy rates and other operating expenses related to the lease. Even though it is our intent to sublease, assign, sell, or otherwise divest ourselves of our interests in the facility at the earliest possible time, we cannot determine with certainty a fixed date by which such events will occur. In light of this uncertainty, based on estimates, we will periodically re-evaluate and adjust the reserve, as necessary, and we may make significant adverse adjustments to the reserve in the future. We may be unable to obtain partners to support our product development efforts when needed to commercialize our technologies. Equity and debt financings alone may not be sufficient to fund the cost of developing our cell technologies, and we may need to rely on partnering or other arrangements to provide financial support for our product development efforts. In addition, in order to successfully develop and commercialize our technologies, we may need to enter into various arrangements with corporate sponsors, pharmaceutical companies, universities, research groups, and others. With the exception of our distribution agreements with Millipore Corporation, we have no such agreements. While we have engaged, and expect to continue to engage, in discussions regarding such arrangements, we may fail to obtain any such agreement on terms acceptable to us. Even if we enter into such arrangements, we may not be able to satisfy our obligations under them or renew or replace them after their original terms expire. Furthermore, these arrangements may require us to grant rights to third parties, such as exclusive marketing rights to one or more products, may require us to issue securities to our collaborators and may contain other terms that are burdensome to us or result in a decrease in our stock price. If we are unable to protect our patents and proprietary rights, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. We either own or exclusively license a number of patents and pending patent applications related to various stem and progenitor cells, including human neural stem cell cultures, as well as methods of deriving and using them. We also own or exclusively license a number of patents and patent applications related to certain mammalian pluripotent and multipotent stem cells, cellular reprogramming, genetic manipulation of stem cells, the creation of genetically engineered animals used for research, technologies that facilitate the identification and isolation of specific stem cell types, and media formulations for the culture of stem cells. The process of obtaining patent protection for products such as those we propose to develop is highly uncertain and involves complex and continually evolving factual, legal and occasionally ethical questions. The governmental authorities that consider patent applications can deny or significantly reduce the patent coverage requested in an application either before or after issuing the patent and procedures exist in all relevant geographies for third parties to challenge even issued patents. In addition, changes to the laws protecting intellectual property rights could adversely impact the perceived or actual value of our Company. Consequently, we do not know whether any of our pending applications will result in the issuance of patents, whether any of our issued patents will be invalidated or restricted, whether any existing or future patents will provide sufficient protection or significant commercial advantage, or whether others will circumvent or invalidate these patents, whether or not lawfully. In addition, our patents may not afford us adequate protection from competing products. Moreover, because patents issue for a limited term, our patents may expire before we can commercialize a product covered by the issued patent claims or before we can utilize the patents profitably. Some of our most important patents begin to expire in 2015. If we learn of third parties who infringe our patent rights, we may decide to initiate legal proceedings to enforce these rights. In 2006, for example, we filed suit against Neuralstem, Inc. for patent infringement. Patent litigation, including the pending litigation to which we are a party, is inherently unpredictable and highly risky and may result in unanticipated challenges to the validity or enforceability of our intellectual property, antitrust claims or other claims against us, which could result in the loss of these intellectual property rights. Litigation proceedings can be very time-consuming for management and are also very costly and the parties we bring 31 Table of Contents actions against may have significantly greater financial resources than our own. We may not prevail in these proceedings and if we do not prevail we could be liable for damages as well as the costs and attorney fees of our opponents. Proprietary trade secrets and unpatented know-how are also important to our research and development activities. We cannot be certain that others will not independently develop the same or similar technologies on their own or gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technology or that we will be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets and unpatented know-how. We require our employees, consultants and significant scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship with us. These agreements may, however, fail to provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for us in the event of unauthorized use, transfer or disclosure of such information or technology. If we are unable to obtain necessary licenses to third-party patents and other rights, we may not be able to commercially develop our expected products. A number of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other companies, universities and research institutions have filed patent applications or have received patents relating to cell therapy, stem and progenitor cells and other technologies potentially relevant to, or necessary for, our expected products. We cannot predict which, if any, of these applications will issue as patents or how many of these issued patents will be found valid and enforceable. There may also be existing issued patents which we are currently unaware of which would be infringed by the commercialization of one or more of our product candidates. If so, we may be prevented from commercializing these products unless the third party is willing to grant a license to us. We may be unable to obtain licenses to the relevant patents at a reasonable cost, if at all, and may also be unable to develop or obtain alternative non-infringing technology. If we are unable to obtain such licenses or develop non-infringing technology at a reasonable cost, our business could be significantly harmed. Also, any infringement lawsuits commenced against us may result in significant costs, divert our management’s attention and result in an award against us for substantial damages, or potentially prevent us from continuing certain operations. We are aware of intellectual property rights held by third parties that relate to products or technologies we are developing. For example, some aspects of our cell-based therapeutic product candidates involve the use of growth factors, antibodies and other reagents that may, in certain cases, be the subject of third party rights. Before we commercialize any product using these growth factors, antibodies or reagents, we may need to obtain license rights from third parties or use alternative growth factors, antibodies and reagents that are not then the subject of third party patent rights. We currently believe that the commercialization of our products as currently planned will not infringe these third party rights, or, alternatively, that we will be able to obtain necessary licenses or otherwise use alternative non-infringing technology. However, third parties may nonetheless bring suit against us claiming infringement. If we are unable to prove that our technology does not infringe their patents, or if we are unable to obtain necessary licenses or otherwise use alternative non-infringing technology, we may not be able to commercialize any products. We have obtained rights from companies, universities and research institutions to technologies, processes and compounds that we believe may be important to the development of our products. These licensors, however, may cancel our licenses or convert them to non-exclusive licenses if we fail to use the relevant technology or otherwise breach these agreements. Loss of these licenses could expose us to the risk that our technology infringes the rights of third parties. We can give no assurance that any of these licenses will provide effective protection against our competitors. We compete with companies that have significant advantages over us. The market for therapeutic products to treat diseases of, or injuries to, the central nervous system (CNS) is large and competition is intense. The majority of the products currently on the market or in development are small molecule pharmaceutical compounds, and many pharmaceutical companies have made significant 32 Table of Contents commitments to the CNS field. We believe cellular therapies, if proven safe and effective, will have unique properties that will make them desirable over small molecule drugs, none of which currently replace damaged tissue. However, any cell-based therapeutic to treat diseases of, or injuries to, the CNS is likely to face intense competition from small molecules, biologics, as well as medical devices. We expect to compete with a host of companies, some of which are privately owned and some of which have resources far greater than ours. In the liver field, there are no broad-based therapies for the treatment of liver disease at present. The primary therapy is liver transplantation, which is limited by the availability of matched donor organs. Liver-assist devices, when and if they become available, could also be used to help patients while they await suitably matched organs for transplantation. Liver transplantation may remain the standard of care even if we successfully develop a cellular therapy. In addition, new therapies may become available before we successfully develop a cell-based therapy for liver disease. The life science and research markets are each highly competitive. Most of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do, making them better equipped to license technologies and intellectual property from third parties or to fund research and development, manufacturing and marketing efforts. Our competitors can be expected to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive price and performance characteristics. In order to compete successfully in these markets, we will likely need to continue to invest in research and development, sales and marketing and customer service and support. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make such investments. The research market is heavily dependent on government funding, and changes in government funding can adversely affect revenues for our tools and technologies products. Our customers include researchers at academic institutions, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and government laboratories, all of whom fund much of their stem cell research using government monies, such as grants. A number of these customers, for example, are dependent for their funding upon grants from U.S. government agencies, such as the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH) and agencies in other countries. The level of government funding of research and development is unpredictable. Research and development spending of our customers can fluctuate based on spending priorities and, as was experienced in 2009, general economic conditions. There have been instances when NIH grants have been frozen or otherwise unavailable for extended periods. The availability of governmental research funding may also continue to be adversely affected by the current economic downturn. Any reduction or delay in governmental funding could cause our customers to delay or forego purchases or reallocate their budgets in a manner adverse to us, in which case our anticipated revenues could be materially lower. Development of our technologies is subject to, and restricted by, extensive government regulation, which could impede our business. Our research and development efforts, as well as any ongoing or future clinical trials, and the manufacturing and marketing of any products we may develop, will be subject to, and restricted by, extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. The process of obtaining FDA and other necessary regulatory approvals for human therapeutics is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. FDA and other legal and regulatory requirements applicable to the development and manufacture of the cells and cell lines required for our preclinical and clinical products could substantially delay or prevent us from producing the cells needed to initiate additional clinical trials. We or our collaborators may fail to obtain the necessary approvals to commence or continue clinical testing or to manufacture or market our potential products in reasonable time frames, if at all. In addition, the U.S. Congress and other legislative bodies may enact regulatory reforms or restrictions on the development of new therapies that could adversely affect the regulatory environment in which we operate or the development of any products we may develop. 33 Table of Contents We base our research and development on the use of human stem and progenitor cells obtained from human tissue, including fetal tissue. The U.S. federal and state governments and other jurisdictions impose restrictions on the acquisition and use of fetal tissue, including those incorporated in federal Good Tissue Practice, or GTP, regulations. These regulatory and other constraints could prevent us from obtaining cells and other components of our products in the quantity or quality needed for their development or commercialization of both therapeutic products and certain of our enabling cell technologies. These restrictions change from time to time and may become more onerous. Additionally, we may not be able to identify or develop reliable sources for the cells necessary for our potential products — that is, sources that follow all state and federal laws and guidelines for cell procurement. Certain components used to manufacture our stem and progenitor cell product candidates will need to be manufactured in compliance with the FDA’s Good Manufacturing Practices, or GMP. Accordingly, we will need to enter into supply agreements with companies that manufacture these components to GMP standards. Noncompliance with applicable requirements both before and after product marketing approval, if any, can subject us, our third party suppliers and manufacturers, and our other collaborators to administrative and judicial sanctions, such as, among other things, warning letters, fines and other monetary payments, recall or seizure of products, criminal proceedings, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, interruption or cessation of clinical trials, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, limitations on or the elimination of claims we can make for our products, and refusal of the government to enter into supply contracts or fund research, or delay in approving or refusal to approve new drug applications. We are dependent on the services of key personnel. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff, including our chief executive officer, our vice presidents, and the heads of key departments or functions, and on some of our outside consultants. Although we have entered into employment agreements with some of these individuals, they may terminate their agreements at any time. In addition, our operations are dependent upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified scientific and management personnel. We may not be able to attract and retain the personnel we need on acceptable terms given the competition for experienced personnel among pharmaceutical, biotechnology and health care companies, universities and research institutions. Our activities involve hazardous materials and experimental animal testing; improper handling of these animals and materials by our employees or agents could expose us to significant legal and financial penalties. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of test animals as well as hazardous chemicals and potentially hazardous biological materials such as human tissue. Their use subjects us to environmental and safety laws and regulations such as those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens, use of laboratory animals, and the handling of biohazardous materials. Compliance with current or future laws and regulations may be expensive and the cost of compliance could adversely affect us. Although we believe that our safety procedures for using, handling, storing, and disposing of hazardous and potentially hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by applicable state, federal and international law, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. In the event of such an accident or of any violation of these or future laws and regulations, state or federal authorities could curtail our use of these materials; we could be liable for any civil damages that result, the cost of which could be substantial; and we could be subjected to substantial fines or penalties. In addition, any failure by us to control the use, disposal, removal, or storage, or to adequately restrict the discharge, or to assist in the cleanup, of hazardous chemicals or hazardous, infectious or toxic substances could subject us to significant liability. Any such liability could exceed our resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, an accident could damage our research and manufacturing facilities and operations and result in serious adverse effects on our business. 34 Table of Contents Natural disasters and violent acts of public protest may cause damage or disruption to us and our employees, facilities, information systems, vendors, and customers. Our operations are concentrated in Northern California. The western United States has experienced a number of earthquakes, wildfires, flooding, landslides, and other natural disasters in recent years. These occurrences could damage or destroy our facilities which may result in interruptions to our business and losses that exceed our insurance coverage. In addition, we know that certain individuals are strenuously opposed to certain types of medical research, including animal testing and embryonic stem cell research engaged in by both us and many of our customers. Acts of both legal and illegal public protest, including picketing and bioterrorism, could affect the markets in which we operate and our business operations. Any of these events could cause a decrease in both our actual and anticipated revenue, earnings and cash flows. The development, manufacturing and commercialization of cell-based therapeutic products expose us to product liability claims, which could lead to substantial liability. By developing and, ultimately, commercializing therapeutic products, we are exposed to the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims against us could result in substantial litigation costs and damage awards against us. We have obtained liability insurance that covers our clinical trials, and we will need to increase our insurance coverage if and when we begin commercializing products. We may not be able to obtain insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, and the policy limits on our insurance policies may be insufficient to cover our liability. The manufacture of cell-based therapeutic products is novel, highly regulated, critical to our business, and dependent upon specialized key materials. The manufacture of cell-based and related products is complicated and difficult, dependent upon substantial know-how and subject to the need for continual process improvements to be competitive. Our manufacturing experience is limited and the technologies are comparatively new. In addition, our ability to scale-up manufacturing to satisfy the various requirements of our planned clinical trials, such as GTP, GMP and release testing requirements, is uncertain. Manufacturing disruptions may occur and despite efforts to regulate and control all aspects of manufacturing, the potential for human or system failure remains. Manufacturing irregularities or lapses in quality control could have a serious adverse effect on our reputation and business, which could cause a significant loss of stockholder value. Many of the materials that we use to prepare our cell-based and related products are highly specialized, complex and available from only a limited number of suppliers or derived from a biological origin. At present, some of our material requirements are single sourced, and the loss of one or more of these sources may adversely affect our business if we are unable to obtain alternatives or alternative sources at all or upon terms that are acceptable to us. Because health care insurers and other organizations may not pay for our products or may impose limits on reimbursements, our ability to become profitable could be adversely affected. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of potential therapeutic products are likely to depend in part upon the availability and amounts of reimbursement from third-party health care payor organizations, including government agencies, private health care insurers and other health care payors, such as health maintenance organizations and self-insured employee plans. There is considerable pressure to reduce the cost of therapeutic products. Government and other third party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new therapeutic products and by refusing, in some cases, to provide any coverage for uses of approved products for disease indications for which the FDA or other relevant authority has not granted marketing approval. Moreover, in some cases, government and other third party payors have refused to provide reimbursement for uses of approved products for disease indications for which the FDA or other relevant authority has granted marketing approval. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products or novel therapies such as ours. Even if we obtain regulatory approval to market our products, we can give no assurance that reimbursement will be provided 35 Table of Contents by such payors at all or without substantial delay or, if such reimbursement is provided, that the approved reimbursement amounts will be sufficient to enable us to sell products we develop on a profitable basis. Changes in reimbursement policies could also adversely affect the willingness of pharmaceutical companies to collaborate with us on the development of our cellular technologies. In certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. We also expect that there will continue to be a number of federal and state proposals to implement government control over health care costs. Efforts to change regulatory and reimbursement standards are likely to continue in future legislative sessions. We do not know what legislative proposals federal or state governments will adopt or what actions federal, state or private payors for health care goods and services may take in response to such proposals or legislation. We cannot predict the effect of government control and health care reimbursement practices on our business. Ethical and other concerns surrounding the use of stem or progenitor-based cell therapy may negatively affect regulatory approval or public perception of our product candidates, which could reduce demand for our products or depress our stock price. The use of stem cells for research and therapy has been the subject of considerable public debate, with many people voicing ethical, legal and social concerns. Although these concerns have mainly been directed to the use of embryonic stem cells, which we are not presently pursuing for therapeutic use, the distinction between embryonic and non-embryonic stem cells is frequently overlooked; moreover, our use of human stem or progenitor cells from fetal sources might raise these or similar concerns. In addition, we are continuing the development of embryonic stem cells and iPS cells as potential research tools, and we may in the future explore their applicability as cell-based therapeutic products. Negative public attitudes toward stem cell therapy could result in greater governmental regulation of stem cell therapies, which could harm our business. The use of these cells could give rise to ethical and social commentary adverse to us, which could harm the market price of our common stock. Additional government-imposed restrictions on the use of embryos or human embryonic stem cells in research and development could also cause an adverse effect on us by harming our ability to establish important partnerships or collaborations, delaying or preventing the development of certain non-therapeutic products, and causing a decrease in the price of our stock or by otherwise making it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. For example, concerns regarding such possible regulation could impact our ability to attract collaborators and investors. Also, existing regulatory constraints on the use of embryonic stem cells may in the future be extended to use of fetal stem cells, and these constraints might prohibit or restrict us from conducting research or from commercializing products. Similarly, concerns and moral objections to embryonic and fetal-tissue derived technologies could delay or prevent us from patenting or enforcing our patents in certain geographies. Also, existing and potential government regulation of embryonic tissue may lead researchers to leave the field of stem cell research or the country altogether, in order to assure that their careers will not be impeded by restrictions on their work. Similarly, these factors may induce graduate students to choose other fields less vulnerable to changes in regulatory oversight, thus exacerbating the risk that we may not be able to attract and retain the scientific personnel we need in face of the competition among pharmaceutical, biotechnology and health care companies, universities and research institutions for what may become a shrinking class of qualified individuals. Our corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it difficult for us to be acquired in a transaction that might be beneficial to our stockholders. Our board of directors has the authority to issue shares of preferred stock and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions of these shares without stockholder approval. These provisions in our corporate documents, along with certain provisions under Delaware law, may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire us, even if the acquisition might be beneficial to our stockholders. 36 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Stock Our stock price has been, and will likely continue to be, highly volatile, which may negatively affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. The market price per share of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile due to the risks and uncertainties described in this section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as other factors, including: • our ability to develop and test our technologies; • our ability to patent or obtain licenses to necessary technologies; • conditions and publicity regarding the industry in which we operate, as well as the specific areas our product candidates seek to address; • competition in our industry; • economic and other external factors or other disasters or crises; • price and volume fluctuations in the stock market at large that are unrelated to our operating performance; and • comments by securities analysts, or our failure to meet market expectations. Over the two-year period ended December 31, 2011, the trading price of our common stock as reported on the NASDAQ Global Market ranged from a high of $15.80 to a low of $0.70 per share. As a result of this volatility, an investment in our stock is subject to substantial risk. Furthermore, the volatility of our stock price could negatively impact our ability to raise capital or acquire businesses or technologies. Our stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, which could affect our stock’s market price and liquidity. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. If we fail to satisfy any of the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Stock Market (“NASDAQ”), our common stock may be put under review or removed from listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. On March 3, 2011, we were notified by NASDAQ that the closing bid price of our common stock had been below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days, and therefore we did not meet the requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. In accordance with NASDAQ rules, we had 180 calendar days, or until August 30, 2011, to regain compliance with this minimum bid price requirement by having our common stock close at a price of $1.00 per share or higher for a minimum of ten consecutive business days during the initial 180-day compliance period. In July 2011, following the affirmative vote of our stockholders at our Annual Meeting, we effected a one-for-ten reverse stock split. Later in July 2011, we received notification from NASDAQ that we had regained compliance with the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. We are contractually obligated to issue shares in the future, diluting the interest of current stockholders. As of December 31, 2011, there were outstanding warrants to purchase 17,434,483 shares of our common stock, at a weighted average exercise price of $2.92 per share, outstanding options to purchase 875,494 shares of our common stock, at a weighted average exercise price of $20.13 per share, and outstanding restricted stock units for 357,541 shares of our common stock. We expect to issue additional options and restricted stock units to purchase shares of our common stock to compensate employees, consultants and directors, and may issue additional shares to raise capital, to acquire other companies or technologies, to pay for services, or for other corporate purposes. Any such issuances will have the effect of diluting the interest of current stockholders. 37 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 