RISK FACTORS Risks Related to our Business Any adverse development in the initial clinical trial for our stem cell technology could substantially depress our stock price and prevent us from raising the capital we will need to further develop our stem cell technology. To an unusual extent, our ability to progress as a company is significantly dependent on a single early stage clinical trial. Any clinical, regulatory or other development that prevents or delays us from conducting our initial clinical trial for Batten disease, or any safety issue or adverse side effect to any patient that occurs during the trial, or the failure of this initial trial to enroll patients and proceed to completion as anticipated or to show the results expected by investors, would likely significantly depress our stock price and could prevent us from raising the substantial additional capital we will require to further develop our stem cell technologies. 20 Table of Contents Our financial situation is precarious and, based on currently estimated operating expenses, our existing capital resources may not be sufficient to fund our operations beyond the next eighteen months. We have incurred significant operating losses and negative cash flows since inception. We have not achieved profitability and may not be able to realize sufficient revenues to achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We do not expect to be profitable in the next several years, but rather expect to incur additional and increasing operating losses. We have limited liquidity and capital resources and must obtain significant additional capital resources in order to sustain our product development efforts and for acquisition of technologies and intellectual property rights, preclinical and clinical testing of our anticipated products, pursuit of regulatory approvals, acquisition of capital equipment, laboratory and office facilities, establishment of production capabilities, maintaining and enforcing our intellectual property portfolio, general and administrative expenses and other working capital requirements. We rely on cash reserves and proceeds from equity and debt offerings, proceeds from the transfer or sale of our intellectual property rights, equipment, facilities or investments, and government grants and funding from collaborative arrangements, if obtainable, to fund our operations. If we exhaust our cash reserves and are unable to realize adequate financing, we may be unable to meet operating obligations and be required to initiate bankruptcy proceedings. Our existing capital resources may not be sufficient to fund our operations beyond the next eighteen months. We intend to pursue opportunities to obtain additional financing in the future through equity and debt financings, corporate alliances, grants and collaborative research arrangements. The source, timing and availability of any future financing will depend principally upon market conditions, interest rates and, more specifically, on our progress in our exploratory, preclinical and future clinical development programs. Funding may not be available when needed — at all or on terms acceptable to us. Lack of necessary funds may require us to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our research and product development programs and/or our capital expenditures or to license our potential products or technologies to third parties. Our product development programs are based on novel technologies and are inherently risky. We are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of products based on new technologies. The novel nature of the therapies creates significant challenges in regards to product development and optimization, manufacturing, government regulation, third party reimbursement and market acceptance. For example, the FDA has relatively little experience with stem cell-based therapeutics, and the pathway to regulatory approval for our product candidates may accordingly be more complex and lengthy than the pathway for new conventional drugs. These challenges may prevent us from developing and commercializing products on a timely or profitable basis or at all. Our technology is at an early stage of discovery and development, and we may fail to develop any commercially acceptable or profitable products. We have yet to develop any products. Before we may market any product, we must obtain regulatory approval from the FDA and equivalent foreign agencies after conducting extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials that demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for each disease for which we seek approval. We have no experience in conducting clinical trials. We expect that none of our cellular therapy product candidates will be commercially available for several years, if at all. Our programs are still at the preclinical phase for our candidate human liver stem cell, and at the discovery phase for our candidate human pancreas stem cell. While the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has permitted us to go forward with our proposed Phase I clinical trial of our proprietary neural stem cell therapy product — HuCNS SC — in Batten disease, and the Institutional Review Board of the Oregon Health & Science University has approved the protocol, that trial has not yet enrolled or treated any patients and there can be no assurance that the clinical investigators will be able to identify suitable candidates for the trial or of a successful outcome of the trial if candidates are enrolled. We may fail to discover the stem cells we are seeking, to develop any products, to obtain regulatory approvals, to enter clinical trials, or to commercialize any products. We may elect to delay or discontinue preclinical studies or clinical trials based on unfavorable results. Any product using stem cell technology may fail to: • survive and persist in the desired location; • provide the intended therapeutic benefits; 21 Table of Contents • properly integrate into existing tissue in the desired manner; or • achieve therapeutic benefits equal to or better than the standard of treatment at the time of testing. In addition, our products may cause undesirable side effects. Results of preclinical research may not be indicative of the results that will be obtained in later stages of preclinical or clinical research. If regulatory authorities do not approve our products or if we fail to maintain regulatory compliance, we would be unable to commercialize our products, and our business and results of operations would be harmed. Furthermore, because stem cells are a new form of therapy, the marketplace may not accept any products we may develop. If we do succeed in developing products, we will face many potential obstacles such as the need to obtain regulatory approvals and to develop or obtain manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities. In addition, we will face substantial additional risks such as product liability claims. Moreover, because our cell therapy treatments will be derived from tissue of individuals other than the patient (that is, they will be “non-self” or “allogeneic” transplant products), patients will require the use of immunosuppressive drugs such as cyclosporine, FK506, or others to prevent rejection of the cells. While immunosuppression is now standard in connection with allogeneic transplants of various kinds, long-term maintenance on immunosuppressive drugs can produce complications that include infection, cancer, cardiovascular disease, renal dysfunction and other side effects depending upon which immunosuppressive regimen is employed. Immunosuppression has not been tested with our therapies since we have not yet conducted any clinical trials. Our success will depend in large part on our ability to develop and commercialize products that treat diseases other than Batten disease. Although we have initially focused on evaluating our neural cell therapy product for the treatment of infantile and late infantile forms of NCL (Batten disease), this disease is rare, and the market for treating this disease is small. Accordingly, even if we obtain marketing approval for HuCNS-SC for Batten disease, in order to achieve profitability, if at all, we will need to obtain approval for HuCNS-SC and other potential products to treat additional diseases that present more significant market opportunities. We have payment obligations resulting from real property owned or leased by us in Rhode Island, which diverts funding from our stem cell research and development. Prior to our reorganization in 1999 and the consolidation of our business in California, we carried out our former encapsulated cell therapy programs in Lincoln, Rhode Island, where we also had our administrative offices. Although we have vacated the Rhode Island facilities, we remain obligated to make lease payments and payments for operating costs for our former science and administrative facility, which we have leased through June 30, 2013. These costs, before sub-tenant rental income, amounted to approximately $1,450,000 in 2005; our rent payments will increase over the term of the lease, and our operating costs may increase as well. In addition to these costs of our former science and administrative facility, we are obligated to make debt service payments and payments for operating costs of approximately $450,000 per year for our former encapsulated cell therapy pilot manufacturing facility, which we own. We have currently subleased a portion of the science and administrative facility, and are seeking to sublease the remaining portion, but we cannot be sure that we will be able to keep any part of the facility subleased for the duration of our obligation. We have currently subleased the entire pilot manufacturing facility to a privately-held biotechnology company, but may not be able to sublease or sell the facility in the future once the current sublease agreements expire. These continuing costs significantly reduce our cash resources and adversely affect our ability to fund further development of our stem cell technology. In addition, changes in real estate market conditions and assumptions regarding the length of time it may take us to either fully sublease, assign or sell our remaining interest in the our former research facility in Rhode Island may have a significant impact on and cause large variations in our quarter to quarter results of operations. In 1999, in connection with exiting our former research facility in Rhode Island, we created a reserve for the estimated lease payments and operating expenses related to it. The reserve is periodically re-evaluated and adjusted based on assumptions relevant to real estate market conditions and the estimated time until we can either fully sublease, assign or sell our remaining interests in the property. At December 31, 2005, the reserve was $7,306,000. In 2005 and 2004, we incurred $1,079,000 and $1,152,000 in operating expenses net of sub-tenant income for this facility. Expenses for this facility will fluctuate based on changes in tenant occupancy rates and other operating expenses related to the lease. Even though it is our intent to sublease, assign, sell or otherwise divest ourselves of our interests in the facility at the earliest possible time, we cannot determine 22 Table of Contents with certainty a fixed date by which such events will occur. In light of this uncertainty, based on estimates, we will periodically re-evaluate and adjust the reserve, as necessary, and we may make significant adverse adjustments to the reserve in the future. We may need but fail to obtain partners to support our stem cell development efforts and to commercialize our technology. Equity and debt financings alone may not be sufficient to fund the cost of developing our stem cell technologies, and we may need to rely on our ability to reach partnering arrangements to provide financial support for our stem cell discovery and development efforts. In addition, in order to successfully develop and commercialize our technology, we may need to enter into a wide variety of arrangements with corporate sponsors, pharmaceutical companies, universities, research groups and others. While we have engaged, and expect to continue to engage, in discussions regarding such arrangements, we have not reached any agreement, and we may fail to obtain any such agreement on terms acceptable to us. Even if we enter into these arrangements, we may not be able to satisfy our obligations under them or renew or replace them after their original terms expire. Furthermore, these arrangements may require us to grant certain rights to third parties, including exclusive marketing rights to one or more products, may require us to issue securities to our collaborators or may contain other terms that are burdensome to us. If any of our collaborators terminates its relationship with us or fails to perform its obligations in a timely manner, the development or commercialization of our technology and potential products may be adversely affected. Because the patient population for NCL, or Batten disease, is very small, we may encounter difficulties in enrolling subjects in our first planned clinical trial. The first clinical application we are pursuing — NCL (also known as Batten disease) — has a very small patient population. From this small population, we must locate and enroll patients that satisfy the specific enrollment criteria for our planned clinical trial for this indication. This clinical trial may be delayed significantly or terminated if we are unable to enroll a sufficient number of qualified patients. We have a history of operating losses, and we may fail to obtain revenues or become profitable. We expect to continue to incur substantial operating losses in the future in order to conduct our research and development activities, and, if those activities are successful, to fund clinical trials and other expenses. These expenses include the cost of acquiring technology, product testing, acquiring regulatory approvals, establishing production, marketing, sales and distribution programs and administrative expenses. We have not earned any revenues from sales of any product. All of our past revenues have been derived from, and any revenues we may obtain for the foreseeable future are expected to be derived from, cooperative agreements, research grants, investments and interest on invested capital. We currently have no cooperative agreements, we have only one current research grant for our stem cell technology, and we may not obtain any such agreements or additional grants in the future or receive any revenues from them. If we are unable to protect our patents and proprietary rights, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed. We own or license a number of patents and pending patent applications related to various stem and progenitor cells and methods of deriving and using them, including human neural stem cell cultures. Patent protection for products such as those we propose to develop is highly uncertain and involves complex and continually evolving factual and legal questions. The governmental authorities that consider patent applications can deny or significantly reduce the patent coverage requested in an application before or after issuing the patent. Consequently, we do not know whether any of our pending applications will result in the issuance of patents, if any existing or future patents will provide sufficient protection or significant commercial advantage or if others will circumvent these patents. We cannot be certain that we were the first to discover the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications for such inventions because patent applications are secret until they are published, and because publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries. Patents may not issue from our pending or future patent applications or, if issued, may not be of 23 Table of Contents commercial benefit to us. In addition, our patents may not afford us adequate protection from competing products. Third parties may challenge our patents or governmental authorities may declare them invalid or reduce their scope. In the event that a third party has also filed a patent application relating to inventions claimed in our patent applications, we may have to participate in proceedings to determine priority of invention. Even if a patent issues, a court could decide that the patent was issued invalidly. Because patents issue for a limited term, our patents may expire before we utilize them profitably. Our most important patents begin to expire in 2015. Under the procedures of the European Patent Office, third parties may oppose our issued European patents during the relevant opposition period. These proceedings and oppositions could result in substantial uncertainties and cost for us, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us, and the outcome might not be favorable to us. One party has opposed two of our granted European patents. Both oppositions were heard in 2005, and the patents were maintained in somewhat altered form. The time for appeal has not yet run and there can be no assurance that the opposing party will not appeal. While we are confident that, should the decision be appealed by the opposing party, it will be upheld, there can be no guarantee of this. If we are ultimately unsuccessful in our defense of the opposed patents, all claimed rights in the opposed patents will be lost in Europe. U.S. counterparts to these patents are part of our issued patent portfolio; they are not subject to opposition, since that procedure does not exist under U.S. patent law, but other types of proceedings may be available to third parties to contest our U.S. patents. See “Item 1. Business — Patents, Proprietary Rights and Licences” and “Item 3. Legal proceedings.” If we learn of third parties who infringe our patent rights, we may need to initiate legal proceedings to enforce our patent rights. These proceedings may entail significant costs, and these third parties may have significantly greater financial resources than us. We may not prevail in these proceedings. Proprietary trade secrets and unpatented know-how are also important to our research and development activities. We cannot be certain that others will not independently develop the same or similar technologies on their own or gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technology or that we will be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets and unpatented know-how. We require our employees, consultants, and significant scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship with us. These agreements may, however, fail to provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for us in the event of unauthorized use, transfer or disclosure of such information or technology. If others are first to discover and patent the stem cells we are seeking to discover, we could be blocked from further work on those stem cells. Because the first person or entity to discover and obtain a valid patent to a particular stem or progenitor cell may effectively block all others, it will be important for us or our collaborators to be the first to discover any stem cell that we are seeking to discover. Failure to be the first could prevent us from commercializing all of our research and development affected by that patent. If we are unable to obtain necessary licenses to third-party patents and other rights, we may not be able to commercially develop our expected products. A number of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other companies, universities and research institutions have filed patent applications or have received patents relating to cell therapy, stem cells and other technologies potentially relevant to or necessary for our expected products. We cannot predict which, if any, of the applications will issue as patents, and there may be existing patents of which we are currently unaware which the commercialization of our product candidates would infringe. If third party patents or patent applications contain valid claims that our technology infringes upon their technology, we may be prevented from commercializing that technology unless the third party is willing to grant a license to us. We may be unable to obtain licenses to the relevant patents at a reasonable cost, if at all, and may also be unable to develop or obtain alternative non-infringing technology. If we are unable to obtain such licenses or develop non-infringing technology at a reasonable cost, our business could be significantly harmed. Also, any infringement lawsuits commenced against us may result in significant costs, divert our management’s attention and result in an award against us for substantial damages. 24 Table of Contents We are aware of intellectual property rights held by third parties that relate to products or technologies we are developing. For example, some aspects of our stem cell product candidates involve the use of growth factors, antibodies and other reagents that may, in certain cases, be the subject of third party rights. Before we commercialize any product using these growth factors, antibodies or reagents, we may need to obtain license rights from third parties or use alternative growth factors, antibodies and reagents that are not then the subject of third party patent rights. We currently believe that the commercialization of our products as currently planned will not infringe these third party rights, or, alternatively, that we will be able to obtain necessary licenses or otherwise use alternate non-infringing technology. However, third parties may nonetheless bring suit against us claiming infringement. If we are unable to prove that our technology does not infringe their patents, or if we are unable to obtain necessary licenses or otherwise use alternative non-infringing technology, we may not be able to commercialize any products. Also, if we use alternative non-infringing technology, we may need to demonstrate comparability in subsequent clinical trials. We have obtained rights from universities and research institutions to technologies, processes and compounds that we believe may be important to the development of our products. These licensors, however, may cancel our licenses or convert them to non-exclusive licenses if we fail to use the relevant technology or otherwise breach these agreements. Loss of these licenses could expose us to the risk that our technology infringes the rights of third parties. We can give no assurance that any of these licenses will provide effective protection against our competitors. We compete with companies that have significant advantages over us. The market for therapeutic products to treat diseases of, or injuries to, the central nervous system (CNS) is large, and competition is intense. The majority of the products currently on the market or in development are small molecule pharmaceutical compounds. Many of the world’s large pharmaceutical companies, including Merck, Pfizer, Abbott, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Novartis and GlaxoSmithKline, have made significant commitments to the CNS field. Any cell-based therapy to treat diseases of, or injuries to, the CNS is likely to face intense competition from the small molecule sector. In addition, a number of biotechnology companies with resources far greater than ours may also emerge as competitors. These include Genzyme, Amgen, Cephalon, Shire Pharmaceuticals, BioMarin, Celgene, Biogen Idec, and Titan Pharmaceuticals/Schering AG. Finally, we also expect to compete with smaller biotechnology companies, such as NeuralStem, Geron, NeuroNova, ReNeuron, and ES Cell International, some of which are privately owned. We believe that our human neural stem cells may have application to many or most of the Lysosomal Storage Diseases (“LSDs”) with CNS involvement. We have received FDA approval for our first IND to treat the Infantile and Late Infantile forms of NCL (also known as Batten disease), which are among the LSDs that affect the CNS, and our Phase I clinical trial expected to begin at Doernbecher Children’s Hospital at Oregon Health & Safety University. There can be no assurance that the trial will demonstrate either safety or efficacy of our HuCNS-SC. There are, so far as we know, no approved therapies for Batten disease or any of the other CNS-specific LSDs, but other companies, including Genzyme, BioMarin, and Shire, have products approved to treat peripheral aspects of some of the other LSDs, and other products are in clinical trials. In the liver field, there are no broad-based therapies for the treatment of liver disease at present. The primary therapy is liver transplantation, which is limited by the availability of matched donor organs. Liver-assist devices, when and if they become available, could also be used to help patients while they await suitably matched organs for transplantation. In addition, new therapies may become available before we successfully develop a cell-based therapy for liver disease. In the field of diabetes, a number of major companies currently market products for the treatment of diabetes and are also engaged in the research and development of new therapies. Such companies include Eli Lilly, Novo Nordisk, J&J, Amylin, ViaCell, and Serono. Consequently, should we successfully develop a cell-based therapy for diabetes, we would expect to face severe competition from these and similar companies. 25 Table of Contents Development of our technology is subject to and restricted by extensive government regulation, which could impede our business. Our research and development efforts, as well as any future clinical trials, and the manufacturing and marketing of any products we may develop, will be subject to and restricted by extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. The process of obtaining U.S. Food and Drug Administration and other necessary regulatory approvals is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. We or our collaborators may fail to obtain the necessary approvals to commence or continue clinical testing or to manufacture or market our potential products in reasonable time frames, if at all. In addition, the U.S. Congress and other legislative bodies may enact regulatory reforms or restrictions on the development of new therapies that could adversely affect the regulatory environment in which we operate or the development of any products we may develop. We base our research and development on the use of human stem and progenitor cells obtained from fetal tissue. The federal and state governments and other jurisdictions impose restrictions on the use of fetal tissue, including those incorporated in the recent federal current Good Tissue Practice, or cGTP, regulations. These regulatory and other constraints could prevent us from obtaining cells and other components of our products in the quantity or quality needed for their development or commercialization. These restrictions change from time to time and may become more onerous. Additionally, we may not be able to identify or develop reliable sources for the cells necessary for our potential products — that is, sources that follow all state and federal guidelines for cell procurement. Certain components used to manufacture our stem cell product candidates will need to be manufactured in compliance with the FDA’s Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP. Accordingly, we will need to enter into supply agreements with companies that manufacture these components to cGMP standards. Although we do not use embryonic stem cells, government regulation and threatened regulation of embryonic tissue may lead top researchers to leave the field of stem cell research, or the country, in order to assure that their careers will not be impeded by restrictions on their work. Similarly, these factors may induce the best graduate students to choose other fields less vulnerable to changes in regulatory oversight, thus exacerbating the risk, discussed below, that we may not be able to attract and retain the scientific personnel we need in face of the competition among pharmaceutical, biotechnology and health care companies, universities and research institutions for what may become a shrinking class of qualified individuals. In addition, we cannot assure you that constraints on the use of embryonic stem cells will not be extended to use of fetal stem cells. Moreover, it is possible that concerns regarding research using embryonic stem cells will negatively impact our stock price and our ability to attract collaborators and investors. We may apply for status under the Orphan Drug Act for some of our therapies to gain a seven-year period of marketing exclusivity for those therapies. The U.S. Congress in the past has considered, and in the future again may consider, legislation that would restrict the extent and duration of the market exclusivity of an orphan drug. If enacted, such legislation could prevent us from obtaining some or all of the benefits of the existing statute even if we were to apply for and obtain orphan drug status with respect to a potential product. We are dependent on the services of key personnel. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff and some of our outside consultants, including the members of our scientific advisory board, our chief executive officer, our vice presidents and the director of our liver stem cell program. Although we have entered into employment agreements with some of these individuals, they may terminate their agreements at any time. In addition, our operations are dependent upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified scientific and management personnel. We may not be able to attract and retain the personnel we need on acceptable terms given the competition for experienced personnel among pharmaceutical, biotechnology and health care companies, universities and research institutions. Our activities involve hazardous materials and experimental animal testing; improper handling of these animals and materials by our employees or agents could expose us to significant legal and financial penalties. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous chemicals and potentially hazardous biological materials such as human tissue and animals. Their use subjects us to environmental and safety 26 Table of Contents laws and regulations such as those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens, use of animals and the handling of biohazardous materials. Compliance with current or future laws and regulations may be expensive and the cost of compliance could adversely affect us. Although we believe that our safety procedures for using, handling, storing and disposing of hazardous and potentially hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by California and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. In the event of such an accident or of any violation of these or future laws and regulations, state or federal authorities could curtail our use of these materials; we could be liable for any civil damages that result, the cost of which could be substantial; and we could be subjected to substantial fines or penalties. In addition, any failure by us to control the use, disposal, removal or storage, or to adequately restrict the discharge, or to assist in the cleanup, of hazardous chemicals or hazardous, infectious or toxic substances could subject us to significant liability. Any such liability could exceed our resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, an accident could damage our research and manufacturing facilities and operations and result in serious adverse effects on our business. The manufacture, development and commercialization of stem cell products expose us to product liability claims, which could lead to substantial liability. By developing and, ultimately, commercializing medical products, we are exposed to the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims against us could entail substantial litigation costs and damage awards against us. We are in the process of obtaining liability insurance that covers our clinical trials, and we will need to increase our insurance coverage if and when we begin commercializing products. We may not be able to obtain insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, and the policy limits on our insurance policies may be insufficient to cover our liability. Since health care insurers and other organizations may not pay for our products or may impose limits on reimbursements, our ability to become profitable could be reduced. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of potential products are likely to depend in part upon the availability and amounts of reimbursement from third party health care payor organizations, including government agencies, private health care insurers and other health care payors, such as health maintenance organizations and self-insured employee plans. There is considerable pressure to reduce the cost of therapeutic products, and government and other third party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new therapeutic products and by refusing, in some cases, to provide any coverage for uses of approved products for disease indications for which the U.S. Food and Drug Administration has not granted marketing approval. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products or novel therapies such as ours. Even if we obtain regulatory approval to market our products, we can give no assurance that reimbursement will be provided by such payors at all or without substantial delay or, if such reimbursement is provided, that the approved reimbursement amounts will be sufficient to enable us to sell products we develop on a profitable basis. Changes in reimbursement policies could also adversely affect the willingness of pharmaceutical companies to collaborate with us on the development of our stem cell technology. In certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. We also expect that there will continue to be a number of federal and state proposals to implement government control over health care costs. Efforts at health care reform are likely to continue in future legislative sessions. We do not know what legislative proposals federal or state governments will adopt or what actions federal, state or private payers for health care goods and services may take in response to health care reform proposals or legislation. We cannot predict the effect government control and other health care reforms may have on our business. We have limited liquidity and capital resources and may not obtain the significant capital resources we will need to sustain our research and development efforts. We have limited liquidity and capital resources and must obtain substantial additional capital to support our research and development programs, for acquisition of technology and intellectual property rights and, to the extent we decide to undertake these activities ourselves, for preclinical and clinical testing of our anticipated products, 27 Table of Contents pursuit of regulatory approvals, establishment of production capabilities, maintaining and enforcing our intellectually property portfolio, establishment of marketing and sales capabilities and distribution channels, and general administrative expenses. If we do not obtain the necessary capital resources, we may have to delay, reduce or eliminate some or all of our research and development programs or license our technology or any potential products to third parties rather than commercialize them ourselves. We intend to pursue our needed capital resources through equity and debt financings, corporate alliances, grants and collaborative research arrangements. We may fail to obtain the necessary capital resources from any such sources when needed or on terms acceptable to us. Our ability to complete successfully any such arrangements will depend upon market conditions and, more specifically, on continued progress in our research and development efforts. Ethical and other concerns surrounding the use of stem cell therapy may negatively affect regulatory approval or public perception of our product candidates, which could reduce demand for our products. The use of stem cells for research and therapy has been the subject of debate regarding related ethical, legal and social issues. Although these concerns have mainly been directed to the use of embryonic stem cells, which we do not use, the distinction between embryonic and non-embryonic stem cells is frequently overlooked; moreover, our use of human stem cells from fetal sources might raise these or similar concerns. Negative public attitudes toward stem cell therapy could result in greater governmental regulation of stem cell therapies, which could harm our business. For example, concerns regarding such possible regulation could impact our ability to attract collaborators and investors. Also, existing regulatory constraints on the use of embryonic stem cells may in the future be extended to use of fetal stem cells, and these constraints might prohibit or restrict us from conducting research or commercializing products. Government regulation and threatened regulation of embryonic tissue could also harm our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific personnel by causing top researchers to leave the country or the field of stem cell research altogether; and by encouraging the best graduate students to choose other fields that are less vulnerable to changes in regulatory oversight. Our corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that may make it difficult for us to be acquired in a transaction that would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our board of directors has the authority to issue shares of preferred stock and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of these shares without shareholder approval. In addition, we have adopted a rights plan that generally permits our existing shareholders to acquire additional shares at a substantial discount to the market price in the event of certain attempts by third parties to acquire us. These rights, along with certain provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law, may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire us, even if the acquisition might be beneficial to our shareholders. Risks Related to the Securities Market Our stock price has been, and will likely continue to be, highly volatile, which may negatively affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. The market price of our stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile due to the risks and uncertainties described in this section of the Form 10-K, as well as other factors, including: • our ability to develop and test our technology; • our ability to patent or obtain licenses to necessary technology; • conditions and publicity regarding the industry in which we operate, as well as the specific areas our product candidates seek to address; • competition in our industry; • price and volume fluctuations in the stock market at large that are unrelated to our operating performance; and • comments by securities analysts, or our failure to meet market expectations. 28 Table of Contents In September 2005 the Nasdaq Stock Market approved our application to move the listing of our common stock from the Nasdaq Capital Market (previously known as the Nasdaq SmallCap Market) to the Nasdaq National Market. The stock began trading on the Nasdaq National Market on September 30, 2005 under the same symbol, STEM. Over the two-year period ended December 31, 2005, the closing price of our common stock as reported on the Nasdaq Markets ranged from a high of $6.77 to a low of $1.24. As a result of this volatility, your investment in our stock is subject to substantial risk. Furthermore, the volatility of our stock price could negatively impact our ability to raise capital in the future. We are contractually obligated to issue shares in the future, diluting the interest of current shareholders. As of December 31, 2005, there were outstanding warrants to purchase 2,521,400 shares of our common stock, at a weighted average exercise price of $1.92 per share. As of December 31, 2005, there were also outstanding options to purchase 6,608,109 shares of our common stock, at a weighted average exercise price of $3.02 per share. Moreover, we expect to issue additional options to purchase shares of our common stock to compensate employees, consultants and directors, and may issue additional shares to raise capital, to acquire other companies or technologies, to pay for services, or for other corporate purposes. Any such issuances will have the effect of diluting the interest of current shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 