ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors, among others, are likely to affect Pomeroy’s operations and financial results and should be considered in evaluating Pomeroy’s outlook. 6 Pricing Pressures Pomeroy believes its prices and delivery terms are competitive, however, certain competitors may offer more aggressive pricing to their customers. The Company has experienced and expects continued pricing pressure due to industry consolidation and the efforts of manufacturers to increase market share through price reductions. In addition, the general weakness in the U.S. economy has impacted Pomeroy’s business. In an attempt to stimulate sales to existing and new customers, the Company believes that pricing pressures may increase in the future, which could require the Company to reduce prices, which would have an adverse impact on its operating results. Decreasing prices of Pomeroy’s products and services offerings would require the Company to sell a greater number of products and services to achieve the same level of net sales. Dependence on Major Customers During fiscal 2008, approximately 40.4% of Pomeroy's total net revenues were derived from its top 10 customers, one of which, IBM Corporation, accounted for more than 10% of Pomeroy’s total net revenues with approximately $84.5 million in revenues for fiscal 2008, $65.9 million in revenues for fiscal 2007 and $74.5 million in revenues for fiscal 2006. The revenues generated from this customer are primarily resulting from technical staffing services provided. Pomeroy elected not to renew a technical staffing contract with this customer in June 2008 due to terms that would make the business unprofitable. As a result of the loss of this business, we expect declines of approximately $80 million in revenues and approximately $6.2 million in gross profit in fiscal 2009. We do not anticipate any customer in 2009 will account for more than 10% of Pomeroy’s net revenues. The loss of one or more significant customers in 2009 could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s operating results. Government Contracts A portion of Pomeroy’s revenue is derived from contracts with state and local governments and government agencies. In the event of a dispute, the Company would have limited recourse against the government or government agency. Furthermore, future statutes and/or regulations may reduce the profitability of such contracts. In addition, certain of the Company’s government contracts have no contractual limitation of liability for damages resulting from the provision of services. Dependence on Key Personnel The success of Pomeroy is dependent on the services of Christopher C. Froman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and other key personnel. The loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on Pomeroy's business. Pomeroy has entered into employment agreements with certain of its key personnel, including Mr. Froman. Dependence on Technical Employees The future success of Pomeroy's services business depends in large part upon the Company’s ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical employees in competitive labor markets. There can be no assurance that Pomeroy will be able to attract and retain sufficient numbers of skilled technical employees. The loss of a significant number of Pomeroy's existing technical personnel or difficulty in hiring or retaining technical personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations and financial results. Dependence on Vendor Relationships The Company’s current and future success depends, in part, on its relationships with leading hardware and software vendors and on its status as an authorized service provider. Pomeroy is currently authorized to service the products of many industry-leading hardware, software and internetworking product vendors. Without these relationships, the Company would be unable to provide its current range of services, principally warranty services. The Company had several vendors who comprised 10% or more of our purchases. During fiscal 2008, approximately 44% of our purchases were made from three vendors. During fiscal 2007, approximately 45% of our purchases were made from three vendors. During fiscal 2006, approximately 55% of our purchases were made from four vendors. Purchases from any one vendor will vary year-to-year depending on sales. Below are the vendors and the percentage of purchases that comprise 10% or more of purchases for fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006: 7 Fiscal 2008 Tech Data Corporation 19 % Cisco Systems 14 % Hewlett Packard Inc. 11 % Fiscal 2007 Tech Data Corporation 17 % Hewlett Packard Inc. 14 % Cisco Systems 14 % Fiscal 2006 Tech Data Corporation 21 % Hewlett Packard Inc. 13 % Cisco Systems 10 % Dell 10 % The Company may not be able to maintain, or attract new relationships with the computer hardware and software vendors that it believes are necessary for its business. Since Pomeroy utilizes vendor relationships as a marketing tool, any negative change in these relationships could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations while it seeks to establish alternative relationships. In general, authorization agreements with vendors include termination provisions, some of which are immediate. The Company cannot assure that vendors will continue to authorize it as an approved service provider. In addition, the Company cannot assure that vendors who introduce new products will authorize it as an approved service provider for such new products. Significant product supply shortages have resulted from time to time because manufacturers have been unable to produce sufficient quantities of certain products to meet demand. The Company expects to experience some difficulty in obtaining an adequate supply of products from its major vendors, which may result in delays in completing sales. The loss of any vendor relationship, product line, or product shortage could reduce the supply and increase costs of products sold by Pomeroy and adversely impact the Company’s competitive position. Growth and Future Acquisitions In the past, Pomeroy has grown both internally and through acquisitions. Pomeroy continues to focus on customer satisfaction as well as execution of its market development and penetration strategies. Pomeroy’s business strategy is to grow both internally and through acquisitions. In fiscal 2004, Pomeroy completed one acquisition and continues to evaluate expansion and acquisition opportunities that would complement its ongoing operations. As part of Pomeroy’s growth strategy, it plans to continue to make investments in complementary companies, assets and technologies, although there can be no assurance that Pomeroy will be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional companies or successfully integrate such additional companies into Pomeroy without substantial costs, delays or other problems. In addition, there can be no assurance that companies acquired in the future will be profitable at the time of their acquisition or will achieve levels of profitability that justify the investment therein. Acquisitions may involve a number of special risks, including, but not limited to, adverse short-term effects on Pomeroy's reported operating results, disrupting ongoing business and distracting management and employees, incurring debt to finance acquisitions or issuing equity securities which could be dilutive to existing stockholders, dependence on retaining, hiring and training key personnel, incurring unanticipated problems or legal liabilities, difficulties with integrating the acquired business into Pomeroy’s business, and amortization of acquired intangible assets. Some or all of these special risks, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on Pomeroy's operations and financial results. Credit Facility and Economic Financial Environment Our credit facility with GE Commercial Distribution Finance contains a number of financial covenants that require us to meet certain financial ratios and tests. If we fail to comply with the obligations in the credit agreement, we would be in default under the credit agreement. If an event of default is not cured or waived, it could result in acceleration of any outstanding indebtedness under our credit agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 8 Additionally, our credit facility expires in June 2009. If we are unable to extend the credit facility with GE Commercial Distribution Finance, or obtain a new credit facility with a new lender, this inability to obtain financing could have a material adverse effect on our business. The recent global financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and the going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the global financial crisis and resulting economic slowdown on our business, including lower overall demand, insolvency of suppliers resulting in product delays, inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products, payment delays by customers and/or customer insolvencies, more onerous credit and commercial terms from our suppliers, delays in accessing our current credit facilities or obtaining new credit facilities on terms we deem commercially reasonable or at all, and an inability of GE Commercial Distribution Finance to fulfill their funding obligations. In an extreme case of banking instability, we might not be able to access our cash accounts or money market investments. Any further deterioration of economic conditions would likely exacerbate these adverse effects and could result in a wide-ranging and prolonged impact on general business conditions, thereby negatively impacting our operations, financials results and/or liquidity. Material Weaknesses in Internal Control over Financial Reporting On December 23, 2008, the Company’s Audit Committee concluded that the Company should restate its previously issued financial statements to correct classification errors related to the following: · The Company previously classified cash flows for floor plan financing arrangements with a third party lender that is not a supplier as operating cash flows instead of financing cash flows. In addition, as a result of this change in classification, a portion of amounts paid under the floor plan should be reclassified from cost of revenues to interest expense on the consolidated statements of operations. In connection with reviewing the accounting treatment for the floor plan financing, the Company determined that a portion of the floor plan liability was previously included in accounts payable on the Company’s balance sheet. As a result, the Company has corrected the reported balance of the floor plan liability. · Certain payroll related expenses for personnel providing direct services to customers previously had been included in operating expenses rather than cost of revenues. The correction of the classification of these expenses has no impact on the total reported net income (loss) or earnings (loss) per share. However, it did change the reported gross profit. · Certain OEM partner promotional incentives were previously recorded as a reduction to service cost of revenues. As these represent a reduction in the cost of product sold, we have reclassified these incentives as a reduction to product cost of revenues. After evaluating the nature of these deficiencies and the resulting restatement, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that material weaknesses existed in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting at January 5, 2008 and 2009. The specific material weaknesses identified were as follows: 1. The Company did not maintain effective internal control over the financial reporting and close function to appropriately apply generally accepted accounting principles ensuring the adequacy of amounts and completeness of disclosures in the consolidated financial statements, resulting in the misclassification of cash flows from floor plan financing. 2. The Company did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting to ensure that all costs such as payroll costs and vendor incentive payments are appropriately classified in the proper financial statement category. As a result, certain cost of revenues were classified improperly in the financial statements. The Company has taken steps to remediate the material weaknesses as discussed in Item 9A “Controls and Procedures.” However, these remediation actions were not completed until 2009. As a result, this material weakness still existed as of January 5, 2009. In the future, if the controls assessment process required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act reveals new material weaknesses or significant deficiencies, the correction of such material weaknesses or deficiencies could require remedial measures that could be costly and time-consuming. In addition, the discovery of new material weaknesses could also require the restatement of prior period operating results. If Pomeroy continues to experience material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting, Pomeroy could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of its financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on its stock price. If Pomeroy is unable to provide reliable and timely financial reports, its business and prospects could suffer material adverse effects. For example, under Pomeroy's current credit facility, financial statements must be presented in a timely manner. Delay in these filings would result in a default. An event of default could adversely affect Pomeroy’s ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms. Business Technology Systems Pomeroy relies upon the accuracy, availability and proper utilization of its business technology systems to support key operational areas including financial functions, product procurement and sales, and engagement and technician management, staffing and recruiting. Pomeroy continually makes investments in its systems, processes and personnel. 9 Pomeroy previously announced the acquisition and scheduled deployment of enterprise planning software. Due to general market and economic conditions, the Company has decided to indefinitely suspend the implementation of this software. There can be no assurance that Pomeroy will anticipate all of the demands which expanding operations may place on its business technology systems. The occurrence of a significant system failure or Pomeroy's failure to expand or successfully implement its systems could have a material adverse effect on Pomeroy's operations and financial results. Trade Receivables Pomeroy conducts business with over 10,000 customers ranging from Fortune 100 clients to government entities to small private firms. We monitor the creditworthiness of our clients on a regular basis. However, in the event of a severe economic downturn, Pomeroy could be susceptible to delayed cash receipts from clients experiencing financial difficulties. The high-volume transaction-intensive nature of Pomeroy’s hardware and service offerings could also lead to misapplication of cash receipts against the corresponding receivables, distorting the portfolio and creating aged trade credits and debits. Vendor Receivables Any change in the level of vendor rebates or manufacturer market development funds offered by manufacturers that results in the reduction or elimination of rebates or manufacturer market development funds currently received by Pomeroy could have a material adverse effect on Pomeroy's operations and financial results. In particular, a reduction or elimination of rebates related to government and educational customers could adversely affect Pomeroy's ability to serve those customers profitably. In addition, there are specific risks, discussed below, related to the individual components of vendor receivables that include vendor rebates, manufacturer market development funds and warranty receivables. The determination of an appropriate allowance is based on the deterioration in the aging of the vendor receivables, the expected resolution of the disallowed claims (see primary reasons for vendor rebate claims being disallowed in “Vendor Rebates” below) and the general posture of the OEMs regarding resolution. Warranty Receivables The Company performs warranty service work on behalf of the OEM on customer product. Any labor cost or replacement parts needed to repair the product is reimbursable to Pomeroy by the OEM. It is the Company’s responsibility to file for and collect these claims. The inability of the Company to properly track and document these claims could result in the loss of reimbursements. Inventory Management Rapid product improvement and technological change resulting in relatively short product life cycles and rapid product obsolescence characterize the information technology industry. While most of the inventory stocked by Pomeroy is for specific customer orders, inventory devaluation or obsolescence could have a material adverse effect on Pomeroy's operations and financial results. Although some manufacturers offer price protection programs intended to reduce the risk of inventory devaluation, our buying model makes us generally exempt from such programs because we do not stock product. Pomeroy currently has the option of returning inventory to certain manufacturers and distributors. The amount of inventory that can be returned to manufacturers without a restocking fee varies under Pomeroy's agreements and such return policies may provide only limited protection against excess inventory. There can be no assurance that new product developments will not have a material adverse effect on the value of the Company’s inventory or that the Company will successfully manage its existing and future inventory. In addition, Pomeroy stocks parts inventory for its services business. Parts inventory is more likely to experience a decrease in valuation as a result of technological change and obsolescence. Manufacturers with respect to service parts do not ordinarily offer price protection. Stock Price Pomeroy’s stock price is affected by a number of factors, including quarterly variations in revenue, gross profit and operating income, low trading volume, general economic and market conditions, and estimates and projections by the investment community. As a result, Pomeroy’s common stock may fluctuate in market price. 10 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None ITEM 