Item 1A. Risk Factors Changing discretionary spending patterns and general economic conditions could reduce our guest traffic and/or average revenue per guest, which would have an adverse effect on our revenues. Purchases at our restaurants are discretionary for consumers and, therefore, we are susceptible to economic slowdowns. In particular, our Morton’s steakhouses cater primarily to business clientele and local fine-dining guests. We believe that the vast majority of our weekday revenues and a substantial portion of our weekend revenues from these restaurants are derived from business people using expense accounts. Accordingly, we believe that our business is particularly susceptible to any factors that cause a reduction in expense account dining by our business clientele. We also believe that consumers generally are more willing to make discretionary purchases, including high-end restaurant meals, during periods in which favorable economic conditions prevail. Changes in spending habits as a result of an economic slowdown or a reduction in consumer confidence are likely to reduce our guest traffic and/or average revenue per guest, which would adversely affect our sales. The future performance of the U.S. economy is uncertain and is directly affected by numerous global and national political and other factors that are beyond our control. These factors, which also affect discretionary consumer spending, include national, regional and local economic conditions, disposable consumer income, consumer confidence, terrorist attacks and the United States’ participation in military actions. We believe that these factors have adversely impacted our business and, should these conditions continue or worsen or should similar conditions occur in the future, we would expect them to continue to adversely impact our business. Our continued growth depends on our ability to open new restaurants and operate new restaurants profitably. A substantial majority of our historical growth has been due to opening new restaurants. For example, we experienced growth of 0.7%, 1.0% and 6.5% in our total revenues in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003 attributable to the revenues from our new restaurants opened in fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, compared to total growth in revenues of 8.8%, 6.8% and 8.7% in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Our ability to open new restaurants is dependent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including our ability to: • find quality locations; • reach acceptable agreements regarding the lease or purchase of locations; • comply with applicable zoning, land use and environmental regulations; 12 Table of Contents • raise or have available an adequate amount of money for construction and opening costs; • timely hire, train and retain the skilled management and other employees necessary to meet staffing needs; • obtain, for an acceptable cost, required permits and approvals; and • efficiently manage the amount of time and money used to build and open each new restaurant. We are reviewing additional sites for potential future Morton’s steakhouses. Typically, there has been a “ramp-up” period of one to two years before we expect a new Morton’s steakhouse to achieve our targeted level of performance. This is due to higher operating costs caused by start-up and other temporary inefficiencies associated with opening new restaurants such as lack of market familiarity and acceptance when we enter new markets and unavailability of experienced staff. We may not be able to attract enough customers to new restaurants because potential customers may be unfamiliar with our restaurants or the atmosphere or the menus of our restaurants might not appeal to them. As a result, the operating results generated at new restaurants may not equal the operating results generated at our existing restaurants. The restaurants may even operate at a loss, which could have a significant adverse effect on our overall operating results. In addition, opening a new restaurant in an existing market could reduce the revenue of our existing restaurants in that market. For these same reasons, many markets would not successfully support one of our restaurants. Furthermore, our ability to expand into non-U.S. markets also may be impacted by legal considerations such as restrictions on importing USDA prime beef from the United States. For example, we currently are not able to export U.S. beef to our restaurants in Asia. Our existing senior personnel levels, restaurant management systems, financial controls, information systems and other systems and procedures may be inadequate to support our expansion, which could require us to incur substantial expenditures that could adversely affect our operating results. Our results of operations will be adversely affected by the planned closure of one of our Bertolini’s restaurants during renovations. During January 2006, we signed a new long-term lease with respect to our existing Bertolini’s restaurant located in Las Vegas, Nevada. In conjunction with the new lease, a new restaurant will be built at this location, and as a result we are currently planning to close the existing Bertolini’s restaurant beginning August 2006. Construction of the new restaurant is currently planned to last from August 2006 through December 2006, although the actual construction period may begin later or last longer. During the construction period, we will incur rent expense, utility expense and other fixed costs and construction costs with respect to the lease of this restaurant and we will also lose the revenues that would have been generated had the existing restaurant remained open, all of which will adversely affect our results of operations. During the period from August 2005 to December 2005, this Bertolini’s restaurant generated revenues and income from operations of $4.4 million and $1.4 million, respectively and, assuming that the construction period for the new restaurant lasts from August 2006 through December 2006, we estimate that we will incur pre-opening expenses and other fixed costs relating to this new lease of approximately $1.6 million pre-tax, although the actual amount could be greater. In that regard, the rent under the new lease is substantially higher than the rent under the existing lease. We may not be able to offset all or any part of this increase in rent through operational measures. As a result of this planned closing, and based on current conditions and our current estimates, we believe that, for the third quarter of fiscal 2006, we may incur a consolidated net loss that could be substantially larger than the consolidated net loss that we incurred in the third quarter of fiscal 2005. Moreover, this planned closure and the higher rent under the new lease may continue to adversely affect our results of operations in periods after the third and fourth quarters of 2006. Additionally, the revenue and income from operations, if any, generated at the newly renovated restaurant may not equal the revenue and income from operations generated at the existing restaurant. 13 Table of Contents Our restaurants may not be able to compete successfully with other restaurants and, as a result, we may not achieve our projected revenue and profitability targets. If our restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other restaurants in new and/or existing markets, we may not achieve our projected revenue and profitability targets. Our industry is intensely competitive with respect to price, quality of service, restaurant location, ambiance of facilities and type and quality of food. We compete with national and regional restaurant chains and independently owned restaurants for customers, restaurant locations and qualified management and other restaurant staff. Compared to our business, some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources, have been in business longer, have greater name recognition and are better established in the markets where our restaurants are located or are planned to be located. Our inability to compete successfully with other restaurants may force us to close one or more of our restaurants. We closed one restaurant in fiscal 2002 and two restaurants in fiscal 2003 and may close other restaurants in the future. Closing a restaurant would reduce our revenues, and could subject us to construction and other costs including severance, legal costs and the write-down of leasehold improvements, equipment, furniture and fixtures. In addition, we could remain liable for remaining future lease obligations. In addition, our continued success depends in part upon the continued popularity of upscale steakhouses. Shifts in consumer preferences away from this type of concept could materially adversely affect our operating results. The restaurant industry is characterized by the continual introduction of new concepts and is subject to rapidly changing consumer preferences, tastes and eating and purchasing habits. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences, as well as other factors affecting the restaurant industry, including new market entrants and demographic changes. Continued expansion by our competitors in the upscale steakhouse segment of the restaurant industry could prevent us from realizing anticipated benefits from new restaurant growth or continued growth in existing restaurant revenues. Our competitors have opened many upscale steakhouses in recent years and a key element of our strategy is to open new steakhouses in both new and existing markets. If we overestimate demand for Morton’s steakhouses or underestimate the popularity of our competitors’ restaurants, we may be unable to realize anticipated revenues from new steakhouses. Similarly, if one or more of our competitors open new restaurants in any of our existing or anticipated markets, sales in our steakhouses may be lower than we expect. Any unanticipated slowdown in demand in any of our restaurants due to industry growth could reduce our revenues, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline substantially. Restaurant companies, including ours, have been the target of class action lawsuits and other proceedings alleging, among other things, violations of federal and state workplace and employment laws. Proceedings of this nature, if successful, could result in our payment of substantial damages. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by legal or governmental proceedings brought by or on behalf of our employees or customers. In recent years, a number of restaurant companies, including ours, have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. Similar lawsuits have been instituted against us from time to time and we are also a defendant in a number of pending lawsuits alleging violations of state and federal wage and hour laws regarding the sharing of tips with other employees and failure to pay for all hours worked. The arbitrator in connection with a proceeding involving 88 claimants with respect to two of our Morton’s steakhouses located in New York has rendered a decision that the wage hour laws have been willfully violated, but there has been no determination as to damages. The Company intends to move to vacate that decision. See “Legal Proceedings.” We have not established any accruals for judgments, and insurance is not available to cover any liabilities, with respect to these matters. Accordingly, we may incur substantial damages and expenses resulting from lawsuits, which would increase the cost of operating our business and decrease the cash available for other uses, and may require us to make additional borrowings under our new senior revolving credit facility. 14 Table of Contents Increases in the prices of, or reductions in the availability of, USDA prime beef could reduce our operating margins and our revenues. We purchase large quantities of beef, particularly USDA prime beef, which is subject to extreme price fluctuations due to seasonal shifts, climate conditions, industry demand and other factors. Our beef costs represented approximately 48% of our food and beverage costs during fiscal 2005. The market for USDA prime beef is particularly volatile. For example, in late 2003, increased demand, together with the impact of supply rationing during late 2001 and 2002, resulted in shortages of USDA prime beef, requiring us to pay significantly higher prices for the USDA prime beef we purchased. Because Morton’s steakhouses feature USDA prime beef, we generally would expect to purchase USDA prime beef even if the price increased significantly. If prices for the types of beef we use in our restaurants increase in the future and we choose not to pass, or cannot pass, these increases on to our guests, our operating margins would decrease. We may experience higher operating costs, including increases to supply prices and employee salaries and benefits, which will adversely affect our operating results if we cannot increase menu prices to cover them. If we increase the compensation or benefits to our employees or pay higher prices for food items or other supplies, we may have an increase in our operating costs. If we are unable or unwilling to increase our menu prices or take other actions to offset increased operating costs, our operating results will suffer. Many factors affect the prices that we pay for the various food and other items that we use to operate our restaurants, including seasonal fluctuations, longer term cycles and other fluctuations in livestock markets, changes in weather or demand and inflation. Factors that may affect the salaries and benefits that we pay to our employees include local unemployment rates and changes in minimum wage and employee benefits laws. Other factors that could cause our operating costs to increase include fuel prices, occupancy and related costs, maintenance expenditures and increases in other day-to-day expenses. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly due to the seasonality of our business and these fluctuations make it more difficult for us to predict accurately in a timely manner factors that may have a negative impact on our business. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations that may vary greatly depending upon the region in which a particular restaurant is located. These fluctuations can make it more difficult for us to predict accurately and address in a timely manner factors that may have a negative impact on our business. Accordingly, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Seasonality.” Our results of operations are affected by a variety of factors, including severe weather conditions, and have fluctuated significantly in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Our results of operations have fluctuated significantly in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Our results of operations are affected by a variety of factors, including: • the timing of new restaurant openings, the cost of opening new restaurants and the relative proportion of new restaurants to mature restaurants; • changes in consumer preferences; • general economic conditions; • severe weather conditions; and • actions by our competitors. Some of our restaurants are located in regions that may be susceptible to severe weather conditions. As a result, adverse weather conditions in any of these areas could damage these restaurants, result in fewer guest 15 Table of Contents visits to these restaurants and otherwise have a material adverse impact on our business. For example, our business was adversely impacted in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2005 due to hurricanes and severe weather in New Orleans and Florida. Therefore, you should not rely on our past results of operations as being indicative of the future. Negative publicity surrounding our restaurants or the consumption of beef generally could adversely affect consumer taste, which could reduce sales in one or more of our restaurants and make our brand less valuable. Because our competitive strengths include the quality of our food and our restaurant facilities, we believe that adverse publicity relating to these factors or other similar concerns affects us more than it would restaurants that compete primarily on other factors. Any shifts in consumer preferences away from the kinds of food we offer, particularly beef, whether because of dietary or other health concerns or otherwise, would make our restaurants less appealing and adversely affect our revenues. Adverse changes involving any of these factors could further reduce our guest traffic and/or impose practical limits on pricing, which could further reduce our revenues and operating income. Instances of food-borne illness and outbreaks of disease, as well as negative publicity relating thereto, could result in reduced demand for our menu offerings and reduced traffic in our restaurants and negatively impact our business. Instances of food-borne illness, including Bovine Spongiform Encephalopotathy, which is also known as BSE or mad cow disease, aphthous fever, which is also known as hoof and mouth disease, as well as hepatitis A, lysteria, salmonella and e-coli, whether or not traced to our restaurants, could reduce demand for our menu offerings. Outbreaks of disease, including severe acute respiratory syndrome, which is also known as SARS, as well as influenza, could reduce traffic in our restaurants. Any of these events would negatively impact our business. In addition, any negative publicity relating to these and other health-related matters may affect consumers’ perceptions of our restaurants and the food that we offer, reduce guest visits to our restaurants and negatively impact demand for our menu offerings. Because our competitive strengths include the quality of our food, adverse publicity relating to these matters or other similar concerns affects us more than it would restaurants that compete primarily on other factors. For example, the outbreak of SARS in 2003 materially impacted the results of our three restaurants located in Hong Kong, Singapore and Toronto. We depend upon frequent deliveries of food and other supplies, in most cases from a limited number of suppliers, which subjects us to the possible risks of shortages, interruptions and price fluctuations. Our ability to maintain consistent quality throughout our restaurants depends in part upon our ability to acquire fresh food products, including USDA prime beef, and related items from reliable sources in accordance with our specifications and in sufficient quantities. We have relatively short-term contracts with a limited number of suppliers for the distribution of most meat, food and other supplies for our restaurants. Our dependence on a small number of suppliers, as well as the limited number of available suppliers of USDA prime beef, subject us to the possible risks of shortages, interruptions and price fluctuations. If any of these suppliers do not perform adequately or otherwise fail to distribute products or supplies to our restaurants, we may be unable to replace the suppliers in a short period of time on acceptable terms. Our inability to replace our suppliers in a short period of time on acceptable terms could increase our costs and could cause shortages at our restaurants of food and other items that may cause us to remove certain items from a restaurant’s menu or temporarily close a restaurant. If we temporarily close a restaurant or remove popular items from a restaurant’s menu, that restaurant may experience a significant reduction in revenue during the time affected by the shortage and thereafter, as our customers may change their dining habits as a result. We have no long-term contracts for any food items used in our restaurants. We currently do not engage in futures contracts or other financial risk management strategies with respect to potential price fluctuations in the cost of food and other supplies, which we purchase at prevailing market or contracted prices. 16 Table of Contents We may incur additional costs or liabilities and lose revenues as a result of litigation and government regulation affecting the operation of our restaurants. Our business is subject to extensive federal, state and local government regulation, including regulations related to the preparation and sale of food, the sale of alcoholic beverages, the sale and use of tobacco, zoning and building codes, land use and employee, health, sanitation and safety matters. Typically our restaurants’ licenses to sell alcoholic beverages must be renewed annually and may be suspended or revoked at any time for cause. Alcoholic beverage control regulations relate to various aspects of daily operations of our restaurants, including the minimum age of patrons and employees, hours of operation, advertising, wholesale purchasing and inventory control, handling and storage. The failure of any of our restaurants timely to obtain and maintain liquor or other licenses, permits or approvals required to serve alcoholic beverages or food could delay or prevent the opening of, or adversely impact the viability of, and any negative publicity related thereto could have an adverse effect on, the restaurant and we could lose significant revenue. Our restaurants are subject in each state in which we operate to “dram shop” laws, which generally allow a person to sue us if that person was injured by a legally intoxicated person who was wrongfully served alcoholic beverages at one of our restaurants. A judgment against us under a dram shop law could exceed our liability insurance coverage policy limits and could result in substantial liability for us and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our inability to continue to obtain such insurance coverage at reasonable costs also could have a material adverse effect on us. To the extent that governmental regulations impose material additional obligations on our suppliers, including, without limitation, regulations relating to the inspection or preparation of meat, food and other products used in our business, product availability could be limited and the prices that our suppliers charge us could increase. We may not be able to offset these costs through increased menu prices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If any of our restaurants were unable to serve particular food products, even for a short period of time, we could experience a reduction in our overall revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, further government regulation including laws restricting smoking in restaurants and bars may reduce guest traffic and adversely impact our sales. One or more of our restaurants could be subject to litigation and governmental fine, censure or closure in connection with issues relating to our food and/or our facilities. The food products that we serve, including meat and seafood, are susceptible to food borne illnesses. We and other restaurant companies have been named as defendants in actions seeking damages as a result of food borne illnesses and actions brought under state laws regarding notices with respect to chemicals contained in food products and regarding excess moisture in the business premises. To date, none of these matters has had a material adverse effect on our business, but that may not continue to be the case in the future. The costs of operating our restaurants may increase if there are changes in laws governing minimum hourly wages, working conditions, overtime and tip credits, health care, workers’ compensation insurance rates, unemployment tax rates, sales taxes or other laws and regulations such as those governing access for the disabled, including the Americans with Disabilities Act. If any of these costs were to increase and we were unable to offset the increase by increasing our menu prices or by other means, this could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Because we have a significant number of restaurants located in various states, including eight in California, six in Florida and five in Illinois, regulatory changes in these states could have a disproportionate impact on our business. See “Business—Government Regulation” for a discussion of certain regulations affecting our business. 17 Table of Contents The failure to enforce and maintain our intellectual property rights could enable others to use names confusingly similar to Morton’s, Morton’s of Chicago and other names and marks used by our restaurants, which could adversely affect the value of the Morton’s brand. We have registered the names Morton’s, Morton’s of Chicago and certain other names used by our restaurants as trade names, trademarks or service marks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and in certain foreign countries. The success of our business depends on our continued ability to use our existing trade names, trademarks and service marks in order to increase our brand awareness. In that regard, we believe that our trade names, trademarks and service marks are valuable assets that are critical to our success. The unauthorized use or other misappropriation of our trade names, trademarks or service marks could diminish the value of our brands and restaurant concepts and may cause a decline in our revenue. We are aware of names similar to those of our restaurants used by third parties in certain limited geographical areas. We occupy most of our restaurants under long-term non-cancelable leases and we may be unable to renew leases at the end of their terms. Most of our restaurants are located in leased premises. Many of our current leases are non-cancelable and typically have terms ranging from 10 to 15 years with renewal options for terms ranging from five to 15 years. We believe that leases that we enter into in the future likely will also be long-term and non-cancelable and have similar renewal options. If we close a restaurant, we generally remain committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease, which would include, among other things, payment of the base rent for the balance of the lease term. Our obligation to continue making rental payments in respect of leases for closed restaurants could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Alternatively, at the end of the lease term and any renewal period for a restaurant, we may be unable to renew the lease without substantial additional cost, if at all. If we are unable to renew our restaurant leases, we may close or relocate a restaurant, which could subject us to construction and other costs and risks, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. For example, closing a restaurant, even during the time of relocation, will reduce the sales that the restaurant would have contributed to our revenues. Additionally, the revenue and profit, if any, generated at a relocated restaurant may not equal the revenue and profit generated at the existing restaurant. Fixed rental payments account for a significant portion of our operating expenses, which increases our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and could limit our operating and financing flexibility. Payments under our operating leases account for a significant portion of our operating expenses. For example, total rental expenses, including additional rental payments based on sales at some of our restaurants, under operating leases were approximately $21.6 million (7.2% of our revenues) for fiscal 2005. In addition, as of January 1, 2006, we were a party to operating leases requiring future minimum lease payments aggregating approximately $106.4 million through fiscal 2010 and approximately $126.0 million thereafter. We expect that new restaurants we open will typically be leased by us under operating leases. Our substantial operating lease obligations could have significant negative consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; • requiring a substantial portion of our available cash to be applied to pay our rental obligations, thus reducing cash available for other purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business or the industry in which we compete; and • placing us at a disadvantage with respect to some of our competitors. 18 Table of Contents We depend on cash flow from operations to pay our lease obligations and to fulfill our other cash needs. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities and sufficient funds are not otherwise available to us from borrowings under bank loans or from other sources, we may not be able to service our operating lease obligations, grow our business, respond to competitive challenges or fund our other liquidity and capital needs, which would have a material adverse affect on us. Our level of indebtedness may adversely affect our financial condition, limit our operational and financing flexibility and negatively impact our business. Our new senior revolving credit facility, and other debt instruments we may enter into in the future, may have important consequences to you, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired; • we may use a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to pay interest on our indebtedness, which will reduce the funds available to us for operations and other purposes; • our level of indebtedness could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have proportionately less debt; • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate may be limited; and • our level of indebtedness may make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. We expect that we will depend primarily upon our operations to provide funds to pay our expenses and to pay any amounts due under our new senior revolving credit facility and any other indebtedness we may incur. Our ability to make these payments depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, many of which we cannot control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future and our currently anticipated growth in revenues and cash flows may not be realized, either or both of which could result in our being unable to repay indebtedness, including our new senior revolving credit facility, or to fund other liquidity needs. If we do not have enough money, we may be required to refinance all or part of our then existing debt, sell assets or borrow more money. We may not be able to accomplish any of these alternatives on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements, including our new senior revolving credit facility, may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. The terms of our new senior revolving credit facility impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us that may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. In February 2006, we entered into a new senior revolving credit facility with a syndicate of financial institutions including affiliates of certain of the underwriters in the IPO. Our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Morton’s of Chicago, Inc., is the borrower under the facility. We and most of our other domestic subsidiaries are guarantors of the facility. The credit agreement is secured by substantially all of our and our present and future domestic subsidiaries’ assets and contains a number of significant restrictions and covenants that generally limit our ability to, among other things: • pay dividends or purchase stock or make other restricted payments to our stockholders; • incur additional indebtedness; • borrow money or issue guarantees; • make investments; • use assets as security in other transactions; 19 Table of Contents • sell assets or merge with or into other companies; • make capital expenditures; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • sell stock in our subsidiaries; and • create or permit restrictions on our subsidiaries’ ability to make payments to us. The credit agreement limits our ability to engage in these types of transactions, even if we believed that a specific transaction would contribute to our future growth or improve our operating results. The credit agreement requires us to achieve specified financial and operating results and maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events outside of our control. A breach of any of these provisions or our inability to comply with required financial ratios in our new senior revolving credit facility could result in a default under the credit facility. If that were to occur, the lenders have the right to declare all borrowings to be immediately due and payable. In addition, the lenders have the right to declare all borrowings to be immediately due and payable upon the occurrence of certain change of control events relating to us. If we are unable to repay all borrowings when due, whether at maturity or if declared due and payable following a default or change of control event, the lenders have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to secure the indebtedness. If we breach these covenants or fail to comply with the terms of our new senior revolving credit facility, or a change of control event occurs, lenders may declare all borrowings to be immediately due and payable, and may sell the assets pledged as collateral in order to repay those borrowings, which would have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and, to the extent that our assets are sold to repay borrowings, our restaurant business. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Debt and Other Obligations—New Senior Revolving Credit Facility” for further information regarding our new senior revolving credit facility. In addition, we are exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates because our new senior revolving credit facility carries a floating rate of interest. Accordingly, our results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Assuming a 10% increase in the interest rate on our $115.0 million new senior revolving credit facility, if the entire amount available under the facility were drawn, interest expense would increase by approximately $0.6 million over the course of 12 months. We could face labor shortages that could slow our growth and adversely impact our ability to operate our restaurants. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including restaurant managers, kitchen staff and servers, necessary to keep pace with our anticipated expansion schedule and meet the needs of our existing restaurants. A sufficient number of qualified individuals of the requisite caliber to fill these positions may be in short supply in some areas. Any future inability to recruit and retain qualified individuals may delay the planned openings of new restaurants and could adversely impact our existing restaurants. Any such delays, any material increases in employee turnover rates in existing restaurants or any widespread employee dissatisfaction could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages, which could result in higher labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We depend on the services of key executives, the loss of whom could materially harm our business and our strategic direction if we were unable to replace them with executives of equal experience and capabilities. Some of our senior executives, such as Thomas J. Baldwin, are important to our success because they have been instrumental in setting our strategic direction, operating our business, identifying, recruiting and training key personnel, identifying expansion opportunities and arranging necessary financing. Losing the services of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business until a suitable replacement could be found. We also 20 Table of Contents believe that they could not quickly be replaced with executives of equal experience and capabilities and their successors may not be as effective. Although we have an employment agreement with our Chief Executive Officer, we could not prevent him from terminating his employment with us. Other executives are not bound by employment agreements with us. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our executives. We expect to incur substantial additional expenses to meet our reporting obligations as a public company. In addition, failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in our financial reporting and could harm our ability to manage our expenses. Reporting obligations as a public company and our anticipated growth are likely to continue to place a considerable strain on our financial and management systems, processes and controls, as well as on our personnel. In addition, as a public company we will be required to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 so that our management can certify as to the effectiveness of our internal controls and our independent registered public accounting firm can render an opinion on management’s assessment and on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting by the time our annual report for fiscal 2007 is due and thereafter, which will require us to document and may require us to make significant changes to our internal controls over financial reporting. As a result, we may be required to improve our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures and incur substantial expenses to test our systems and to make such improvements. If our management is unable to certify the effectiveness of our internal controls or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an unqualified opinion on management’s assessment and on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in our internal controls are identified, or if we fail to comply with other obligations imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, rules relating to corporate governance matters, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our stock price. In addition, if we do not maintain adequate financial and management personnel, processes and controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis, which could cause a decline in our stock price and adversely affect our ability to raise capital. Our current insurance policies may not provide adequate levels of coverage against all claims and we may incur losses that are not covered by our insurance. We believe we maintain insurance coverage that is customary for businesses of our size and type. However, there are types of losses we may incur that cannot be insured against or that we believe are not commercially reasonable to insure. For example, we believe that insurance covering liability for violations of wage and hour laws is generally not available. These losses, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 