Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our industry is cyclical and highly sensitive to macroeconomic conditions; as a result, our industry is currently experiencing a downturn which, if sustained, will materially and adversely affect our business, liquidity and results of operations. The nonresidential construction industry is highly sensitive to national and regional macroeconomic conditions. The United States and global economies are currently undergoing a period of slowdown and unprecedented volatility, which is having an adverse effect on our business. When assessing the state of the metal construction market, we review information from various industry associations, third-party research, and various government reports such as industrial production and capacity utilization. One such industry association is the MBMA, which provides summary member sales information and promotes the design and construction of metal buildings and metal roofing systems. Another is McGraw-Hill Construction Information Group, which we review for information regarding actual and forecasted growth in various construction related industries, including the overall nonresidential construction market. McGraw-Hill Construction’s nonresidential construction forecast for calendar 2013, published in October 2013, indicates an expected increase of 5% in square footage and an increase of 4% in dollar value as compared to the prior calendar year. In calendar 2014, activity is expected to increase compared to calendar 2013, with an expected increase of 11% in square footage and an increase of 8% in dollar value. Additionally, we review the AIA survey for inquiry and billing activity for the industrial, commercial and institutional sectors. AIA’s ABI is a closely watched metric, as billings growth for architectural services generally leads to construction spending growth for the following 9 to 12 months. We have historically experienced a shorter lag period of 6 – 9 months when comparing the commercial and industrial ABI trends to our volume trends. An ABI reading above 50 indicates an increase in month-to-month seasonally adjusted billings and a reading below 50 indicates a decrease in month-to-month seasonally adjusted billings. AIA’s ABI published for October 2013 was above 50 at 51.6 and the commercial and industrial component of the index was at 53.7 for October 2013. The commercial and industrial component of the index represents an improvement over October 2012, when the index was 50.1. Continued uncertainty about current economic conditions has had a negative effect on our business, and will continue to pose a risk to our business as our customers may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on the demand for our products. Other factors that could influence demand include fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the nonresidential real estate markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit and other macroeconomic factors. From time to time, our industry has also been adversely affected in various parts of the country by declines in nonresidential construction starts, including but not limited to, high vacancy rates, changes in tax laws affecting the real estate industry, high interest rates and the unavailability of financing. Sales of our products may be adversely affected by continued weakness in demand for our products within particular customer groups, or a continued decline in the general construction industry or particular geographic regions. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. We cannot predict the ultimate severity or length of the current economic downturn, or the timing or severity of future economic or industry downturns. A prolonged economic downturn, particularly in states where many of our sales are made, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, including potential asset impairments. The ongoing uncertainty and volatility in the financial markets related to the U.S. budget deficit, the European sovereign debt crisis and the state of the worldwide economic recovery may adversely affect our operating results. Global financial markets continue to experience disruptions, including increased volatility, and diminished liquidity and credit availability. In particular, developments in Europe have created uncertainty with respect to the ability of certain European countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations. This debt crisis and related European financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the Euro to deteriorate and contribute to instability in global credit markets. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in Europe, the U.S. or other key markets, remain uncertain, persist, or deteriorate further, our 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS customers may respond by suspending, delaying or reducing their purchases of our metal products, which may adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Discord, conflict, and lack of compromise within and between the executive and legislative branches of the U.S. government relative to federal government budgeting, taxation policies, government expenditures, and U.S. borrowing/debt ceiling limits could adversely affect our business and operating results. The inability of the legislative and executive branches of the U.S. government to pass in a timely manner a federal government budget, control deficit spending, address tax revenue requirements and effectively manage short and long term U.S. government borrowing, debt ratings, and debt ceiling adjustments could negatively impact U.S. domestic and global financial markets thereby reducing demand by our customers for our products and services thereby reducing our revenues. Similarly, if our suppliers face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products, or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may become unable to continue to offer the materials we purchase from them to manufacture our products. These actions could result in reductions in our revenues, increased price competition, or increased operating costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Regulation from the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) could adversely affect our business or financial results. Changes in regulatory requirements, such as the reporting requirements relating to conflict minerals originating in the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries included in the Dodd-Frank Act, or evolving interpretations of existing regulatory requirements, may result in increased compliance cost, capital expenditures and other financial obligations that could adversely affect our business or financial results. Our business may be impacted by external factors that we may not be able to control. War, civil conflict, terrorism, natural disasters and public health issues including domestic or international pandemic have caused and could cause damage or disruption to domestic or international commerce by creating economic or political uncertainties. Additionally, the volatility in the financial markets, as we have experienced recently following the concerns about the S&P’s downgrade of the United States’ credit rating, the European debt crisis and fears of a new U.S. recession, could negatively impact our business. These events could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to deliver orders to customers or receive materials from suppliers, affect the availability or pricing of energy sources or result in other severe consequences that may or may not be predictable. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to service our debt, obtain future financing or may be limited operationally. We have substantial debt service obligations. As of November 3, 2013, we had aggregate indebtedness of approximately $238 million. The debt that we carry may have important consequences to us, including the following: • Our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or additional financing may not be available on favorable terms; • We must use a portion of our cash flow to pay the principal and interest on our debt. These payments reduce the funds that would otherwise be available for our operations and future business opportunities; • Because we may be more leveraged than some of our competitors, our debt may place us at a competitive disadvantage; • A substantial decrease in our net operating cash flows could make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements and force us to modify our operations; and • We may be more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy generally. If we cannot service our debt, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying acquisitions and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. We can give you no assurance that we can do any of these things on satisfactory terms or at all. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS Subject to restrictions in our Credit Agreement and Amended ABL Facility, we may incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance acquisitions, capital expenditures or for other purposes. Restrictive covenants in the Credit Agreement and the Amended ABL Facility may adversely affect us. We must comply with operating and financing restrictions in the Credit Agreement and the Amended ABL Facility. We may also have similar restrictions with any future debt. These restrictions affect, and in many respects limit or prevent us from: • incurring additional indebtedness; • making restricted payments, including dividends or other distributions; • incurring liens; • making investments, including joint venture investments; • selling assets; • repurchasing our debt and our capital stock; and • merging or consolidating with or into other companies or sell substantially all our assets. We are required to make mandatory payments under the Credit Agreement upon the occurrence of certain events, including the sale of assets and the issuance of debt, in each case subject to certain limitations and conditions set forth in our Credit Agreement. Under the Amended ABL Facility, a “Dominion Event” occurs if either an event of default is continuing or excess availability falls below certain levels, during which period, and for certain periods thereafter, the administrative agent may apply all amounts in the Company’s concentration account to the repayment of the loans outstanding under the Amended ABL Facility, subject to an intercreditor agreement between the lenders under the Credit Agreement and the Amended ABL Facility. In addition, during a Dominion Event, we are required to make mandatory payments on the Amended ABL Facility upon the occurrence of certain events, including the sale of assets and the issuance of debt, in each case subject to certain limitations and conditions set forth in the Amended ABL Facility. If excess availability under the Amended ABL Facility falls below certain levels, our asset-based loan facility also requires us to satisfy set financial tests relating to our fixed charge coverage ratio. These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs or otherwise could restrict our activities. In addition, under certain circumstances and subject to the limitations set forth in the Credit Agreement, the Credit Agreement requires us to pay down our term loan to the extent we generate excess positive cash flow each fiscal year. These restrictions could also adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. We may recognize goodwill or other intangible asset impairment charges. Future triggering events, such as declines in our cash flow projections, may cause impairments of our goodwill or intangible assets based on factors such as our stock price, projected cash flows, assumptions used, control premiums or other variables. We completed our annual assessment of the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013 and determined that no impairments of our goodwill or long-lived intangibles were required. Our businesses are seasonal, and our results of operations during our first two fiscal quarters may be adversely affected by seasonality. The metal coil coating, metal components and engineered building systems businesses, and the construction industry in general, are seasonal in nature. Sales normally are lower in the first half of each fiscal year compared to the second half of the fiscal year because of unfavorable weather conditions for construction and typical business planning cycles affecting construction. This seasonality adversely affects our results of 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS operations for the first two fiscal quarters. Prolonged severe weather conditions can delay construction projects and otherwise adversely affect our business. Price volatility and supply constraints in the steel market could prevent us from meeting delivery schedules to our customers or reduce our profit margins. Our business is heavily dependent on the price and supply of steel. The steel industry is highly cyclical in nature, and steel prices have been volatile in recent years and may remain volatile in the future. Steel prices are influenced by numerous factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions domestically and internationally, the availability of raw materials, competition, labor costs, freight and transportation costs, production costs, import duties and other trade restrictions. Given the level of steel industry consolidation, the anticipated additional domestic market capacity, generally low inventories in the industry and slow economic recovery, a sudden increase in demand could affect our ability to purchase steel and result in rapidly increasing steel prices. We normally do not maintain an inventory of steel in excess of our current production requirements. However, from time to time, we may purchase steel in advance of announced steel price increases. If demand for our products declines, our inventory may increase. We can give you no assurance that steel will remain available or that prices will not continue to be volatile. While most of our sales contracts have escalation clauses that allow us, under certain circumstances, to pass along all or a portion of increases in the price of steel after the date of the contract but prior to delivery, we may, for competitive or other reasons, not be able to pass such price increases along. If the available supply of steel declines, we could experience price increases that we are not able to pass on to our customers, a deterioration of service from our suppliers or interruptions or delays that may cause us not to meet delivery schedules to our customers. Any of these problems could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For more information about steel pricing trends in recent years, see “Item 1. Business — Raw Materials” and “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk — Steel Prices.” We rely on a few major suppliers for our supply of steel, which makes us more vulnerable to supply constraints and pricing pressure, as well as the financial condition of those suppliers. We rely on a few major suppliers for our supply of steel and may be adversely affected by the bankruptcy, financial condition or other factors affecting those suppliers. During fiscal 2013, we purchased approximately 11% of our product material costs from one vendor in the United States. No other vendor accounted for over 10% of our product material costs during fiscal 2013. Due to unfavorable market conditions and our inventory supply requirements during fiscal 2013, we purchased less than 10% of our steel from foreign suppliers. Pricing and lead time limits our use of foreign suppliers. Therefore, production cutbacks or a prolonged labor strike against one or more of our principal domestic suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Furthermore, if one or more of our current suppliers is unable for financial or any other reason to continue in business or to produce steel sufficient to meet our requirements, essential supply of our primary raw materials could be temporarily interrupted, and our business could be adversely affected. Failure to retain or replace key personnel could hurt our operations. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the efforts, contributions and abilities of our senior management, plant managers and other highly skilled personnel, including our sales executives. These executives and managers have many accumulated years of experience in our industry and have developed personal relationships with our customers that are important to our business. If we do not retain the services of our key personnel or if we fail to adequately plan for the succession of such individuals, our customer relationships, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. If we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights or if our intellectual property rights become obsolete, our competitive position could be adversely affected. We utilize a variety of intellectual property rights in our services. We have a number of United States patents, foreign patents, pending patent applications and other proprietary rights, including those relating to metal roofing systems, metal overhead doors, our pier and header system, our Long Bay® System and our 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS building estimating and design system. We also have several registered trademarks and pending registrations in the United States. We view our portfolio of process and design technologies as one of our competitive strengths. We may not be able to successfully preserve these intellectual property rights in the future and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged. If we are unable to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights, or if there are any successful intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings against us, our business and revenue could be materially and adversely affected. We incur costs to comply with environmental laws and have liabilities for environmental investigations, cleanups and claims. Because we emit and discharge pollutants into the environment, own and operate real property that has historically been used for industrial purposes, and generate and handle hazardous substances and industrial wastes, we incur costs and liabilities to comply with environmental laws and regulations. We may incur significant additional costs as those laws and regulations or their enforcement change in the future if there is a release of hazardous substances into the environment, or if a historical release of hazardous substances, industrial wastes or other contamination is identified. The operations of our manufacturing facilities are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These include, for example, (i) the federal Clean Air Act and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to air emissions; (ii) the federal RCRA and comparable state laws that impose requirements for the storage, treatment, handling and disposal of waste from our facilities; and (iii) CERCLA and comparable state laws that impose liability for the investigation and cleanup of hazardous substances or industrial wastes that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us, or at locations to which we have sent industrial waste for disposal. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties; the imposition of investigative or remedial requirements; personal injury, property or natural resource damages claims; and the issuance of orders enjoining current or future operations, or the denial or revocation of permits or other legal authorizations. For more information about the effect of environmental laws and regulations on our business, see “Item 1. Business — Environmental Matters.” The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete with all other alternative methods of building construction, which may be viewed as more traditional, more aesthetically pleasing or having other advantages over our products. In addition, competition in the metal components and metal buildings markets of the building industry and in the metal coil coating segment is intense. It is based primarily on: • quality; • service; • on-time delivery; • ability to provide added value in the design and engineering of buildings; • price; • speed of construction in buildings and components; and • personal relationships with customers. We compete with a number of other manufacturers of metal components and engineered building systems and providers of coil coating services ranging from small local firms to large national firms. In addition, we and other manufacturers of metal components and engineered building systems compete with alternative methods of building construction. If these alternative building methods compete successfully against us, such competition could adversely affect us. In addition, several of our competitors have been acquired by steel producers. Competitors owned by steel producers may have a competitive advantage on raw materials that we do not enjoy. Steel producers may 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS prioritize deliveries of raw materials to such competitors or provide them with more favorable pricing, both of which could enable them to offer products to customers at lower prices or accelerated delivery schedules. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is subject to significant fluctuations in response to the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in quarterly operating results; • deviations in our earnings from publicly disclosed forward-looking guidance; • variability in our revenues; • changes in earnings estimates by analysts; • our announcements of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; • general conditions in the metal components and engineered building systems industries; • uncertainty about current global economic conditions; • fluctuations in stock market price and volume; and • other general economic conditions. During fiscal 2013, our stock price on the New York Stock Exchange ranged from a high of $17.85 per share to a low of $10.87 per share. In recent years, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price for many companies in industries similar to ours. Some of these fluctuations have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. These market fluctuations may decrease the market price of our common stock in the future. Acquisitions may be unsuccessful if we incorrectly predict operating results or are unable to identify and complete future acquisitions and integrate acquired assets or businesses. We have a history of expansion through acquisitions, and we believe that if our industry continues to consolidate, our future success may depend, in part, on our ability to successfully complete acquisitions. Growing through acquisitions and managing that growth will require us to continue to invest in operational, financial and management information systems and to attract, retain, motivate and effectively manage our employees. Pursuing and integrating acquisitions involves a number of risks, including: • the risk of incorrect assumptions or estimates regarding the future results of the acquired business or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring the business; • diversion of management’s attention from existing operations; • unexpected losses of key employees, customers and suppliers of the acquired business; • integrating the financial, technological and management standards, processes, procedures and controls of the acquired business with those of our existing operations; and • increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. Although the majority of our growth strategy is organic in nature, if we do pursue opportunistic acquisitions, we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in identifying or completing any acquisitions or that any businesses or assets that we are able to acquire will be successfully integrated into our existing business. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that any announcement or consummation of an acquisition would have on the trading prices of our securities. Acquisitions subject us to numerous risks that could adversely affect our results of operations. If we pursue further acquisitions, depending on conditions in the acquisition market, it may be difficult or impossible for us to identify businesses or operations for acquisition, or we may not be able to make acquisitions on terms that we consider economically acceptable. Even if we are able to identify suitable 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS acquisition opportunities, our acquisition strategy depends upon, among other things, our ability to obtain financing and, in some cases, regulatory approvals, including under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act. Our incurrence of additional debt, contingent liabilities and expenses in connection with any future acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our financial position and results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period based on whether significant acquisitions are completed in particular periods. Competition for acquisitions is intense and may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. Although we expect that the acquisition (“Acquisition”) of Metl-Span LLC will result in benefits to us, we may not realize those benefits because of integration difficulties. Integrating the operations of Metl-Span successfully or otherwise realizing any of the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition, including anticipated cost savings and additional revenue opportunities, involves a number of challenges. The failure to meet these integration challenges could seriously harm our results of operations and the market price of our common stock may decline as a result. Realizing the benefits of the Acquisition will depend in part on the integration of organizations, operations, procedures, policies and technologies, as well as the harmonization of differences in the business cultures of the two companies and retention of key personnel. These integration activities are complex and time-consuming and we may encounter unexpected difficulties or incur unexpected costs, including: • our inability to achieve operating synergies anticipated in the acquisition, which would prevent us from achieving the positive earnings gains expected as a result of the Acquisition; • diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns to integration matters; • difficulties in consolidating and rationalizing information technology platforms and administrative infrastructures; • complexities associated with managing the combined businesses; • challenges in demonstrating to our customers and to customers of Metl-Span that the Acquisition will not result in adverse changes in customer service standards or business focus; and • our inability to preserve supplier and other important relationships of both the Company and Metl-Span and resolve potential conflicts that may arise. We may not successfully integrate the operations of Metl-Span in a timely manner, and we may not realize the synergies of the Acquisition to the extent, or in the timeframe, anticipated. In addition to the integration risks discussed above, our ability to realize these synergies could be adversely impacted by practical or legal constraints on our ability to combine operations. In connection with the Equity Investment, we entered into a stockholders agreement with the CD&R Funds pursuant to which the CD&R Funds have substantial governance and other rights and setting forth certain terms and conditions regarding the Equity Investment and the ownership of the CD&R Funds’ shares of Common Stock. Pursuant to the stockholders agreement with the CD&R Funds, subject to certain ownership and other requirements and conditions, the CD&R Funds have the right to appoint a majority of directors to our board of directors, including the “Lead Director” or Chairman of the Executive Committee of our board of directors, and have consent rights over a variety of significant corporate and financing matters, including, subject to certain customary exceptions and specified baskets, sales and acquisitions of assets, issuances and redemptions of equity, incurrence of debt, the declaration or payment of extraordinary distributions or dividends and changes to the Company’s line of business. In addition, the CD&R Funds are granted subscription rights under the terms and conditions of the stockholders agreement. Further, effective as of the closing of the Equity Investment, the Company has taken all corporate action and filed all election notices or other documentation with the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) necessary to elect to take advantage of the exemptions to the requirements of sections 303A.01, 303A.04 and 303A.05 of the NYSE Listed Company Manual and, for so long as we qualify as a “controlled company” within the 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS meaning set forth in the NYSE Listed Company Manual or any similar provision in the rules of a stock exchange on which the securities of the Company are quoted or listed for trading, we have agreed to use our reasonable best efforts to take advantage of the exemptions therein. Such exemptions exempt us from compliance with the NYSE’s requirements for companies listed on the NYSE to have (1) a majority of independent directors, (2) a nominating/corporate governance committee and a compensation committee, in each case, composed entirely of independent directors, and (3) charters for the nominating/corporate governance committee and the compensation committee, in each case, addressing certain specified matters. Transactions engaged in by the CD&R Funds or our directors or executives involving our Common Stock may have an adverse effect on the price of our stock. Our officers, directors and the CD&R Funds collectively control approximately 74% of our issued and outstanding Common Stock. On May 14, 2013, the CD&R Funds delivered a formal notice requesting the conversion of their 339,293 shares of Preferred Stock into Common Stock (the “Conversion”). In connection with the Conversion request, we issued to the CD&R Funds 54,136,817 shares of our Common Stock, representing 72.4% of our issued and outstanding Common Stock as of November 3, 2013. See Note 13 — Series B Cumulative Convertible Participating Preferred Stock to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the CD&R Equity Investment. Future sales of our Common Stock by these stockholders could have the effect of lowering our stock price. The perceived risk associated with the possible sale of a large number of shares by these stockholders could cause some of our stockholders to sell their stock, thus causing the price of our stock to decline. In addition, actual or anticipated downward pressure on our stock price due to actual or anticipated sales of stock by our directors or officers could cause other institutions or individuals to engage in short sales of our Common Stock, which may further cause the price of our stock to decline. From time to time our directors, executive officers, or the CD&R Funds may sell shares of our Common Stock on the open market or otherwise, for a variety of reasons, which may be related or unrelated to the performance of our business. These sales will be publicly disclosed in filings made with the SEC. Our stockholders may perceive these sales as a reflection on management's view of the business which may result in a drop in the price of our stock or cause some stockholders to sell their shares of our Common Stock. Increases in energy prices will increase our operating costs, and we may be unable to pass all these increases on to our customers in the form of higher prices for our products. Increases in energy prices will increase our operating costs and may reduce our profitability and cash flows if we are unable to pass all the increases on to our customers. We use energy in the manufacture and transport of our products. In particular, our manufacturing plants use considerable electricity and natural gas. Consequently, our operating costs typically increase if energy costs rise. During periods of higher energy costs, we may not be able to recover our operating cost increases through price increases without reducing demand for our products. To the extent we are not able to recover these cost increases through price increases or otherwise, our profitability and cash flow will be adversely impacted. We partially hedge our exposure to higher prices via fixed forward positions. The adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our operating costs or reduce demand for our products. More stringent laws and regulations relating to climate change and GHGs may be adopted in the future and could cause us to incur additional operating costs or reduce the demand for our products. On December 15, 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, and other GHGs present an endangerment to public health, the economy and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the federal Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, contributing to the warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climate changes. These findings allowed the EPA to adopt and implement regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. The EPA adopted regulations that would require a reduction in emissions of GHGs and could trigger permit review for GHGs produced from certain stationary sources. In June 2010, EPA adopted the Prevention of Significant Deterioration and Title V Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule, which phases in permitting 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS requirements for stationary sources of GHGs, beginning January 2, 2011. This rule “tailors” these permitting programs to apply to certain significant stationary sources of GHG emissions in a multi-step process, with the largest sources first subject to permitting. In October 2009, the EPA issued its final Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule requiring the mandatory annual reporting of GHG emissions for calendar year 2010-forward from certain significant sources of GHG emission sources in the United States. In addition, several North American multi-state climate initiatives are either actively studying, or have already implemented, measures to reduce GHG emissions, primarily through the planned development of GHG tracking systems and regional GHG emission trading programs. These programs typically require major sources of GHGs or major electricity generators to acquire and surrender emission allowances and offsets, with the number of allowances available for purchase reduced each year until an overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. In October 2011, the California Air Resources Board (CARB) adopted a cap-and-trade program that will help the state reduce GHG emissions to 1990-levels by 2020. This program, along with mandatory GHG reporting and other complementary measures, was authorized by the California Global Warming Solutions Act (AB 32) of 2006. Beginning in 2013, cap-and-trade regulations apply to all major industrial sources and electricity generators, and will expand in 2015 to cover the distributors of transportation fuels, natural gas and other fuels. The amount of allowances available to these sources is set to decline by about three percent each year through 2020 as the cap is lowered and emissions are reduced. Although it is not possible to accurately predict how new GHG legislation or regulations would impact our business, any new federal, regional or state restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide or other GHGs that may be imposed in areas where we conduct business could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions on us, our raw material suppliers and our customers. Such restrictions could potentially make our products more expensive and thus reduce their demand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Breaches of our information system security measures could disrupt our internal operations. We are dependent upon information technology for the distribution of information internally and also to our customers and suppliers. This information technology is subject to theft, damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including but not limited to malicious computer viruses, security breaches and defects in design. Various measures have been implemented to manage our risks related to information system and network disruptions, but a system failure or breach of these measures could negatively impact our operations and financial results. Damage to our computer infrastructure and software systems could harm our business. The unavailability of any of our primary information management systems for any significant period of time could have an adverse effect on our operations. In particular, our ability to deliver products to our customers when needed, collect our receivables and manage inventory levels successfully largely depend on the efficient operation of our computer hardware and software systems. Through information management systems, we provide inventory availability to our sales and operating personnel, improve customer service through better order and product reference data and monitor operating results. Difficulties associated with upgrades, installations of major software or hardware, and integration with new systems could lead to business interruptions that could harm our reputation, increase our operating costs and decrease our profitability. In addition, these systems are vulnerable to, among other things, damage or interruption from power loss, computer system and network failures, loss of telecommunications services, operator negligence, physical and electronic loss of data, or security breaches and computer viruses. We have contracted with third-party service providers that provide us with redundant data center services in the event that our major information management systems are damaged. The backup data centers and other protective measures we take could prove to be inadequate. Our inability to restore data completely and accurately could lead to inaccurate and/or untimely filings of our periodic reports with the SEC, tax filings with the IRS or other required filings, all of which could have a significant negative impact on our corporate reputation and could negatively impact our stock price or result in fines or penalties that could impact our financial results. 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our operations are subject to hazards that may cause personal injury or property damage, thereby subjecting us to liabilities and possible losses, which may not be covered by insurance. Our workers are subject to the usual hazards associated with work in manufacturing environments. Operating hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, as well as damage to or destruction of business personal property, and possible environmental impairment. We are subject to either deductible or self-insured retention (SIR) amounts, per claim or occurrence, under our Property/Casualty insurance programs, as well as an individual stop-loss limit per claim under our group medical insurance plan. We maintain insurance coverage to transfer risk, with aggregate and per-occurrence limits and deductible or retention levels that we believe are consistent with industry practice. The transfer of risk through insurance cannot guarantee that coverage will be available for every loss or liability that we may incur in our operations. Exposures that could create insured (or uninsured) liabilities are difficult to assess and quantify due to unknown factors, including but not limited to injury frequency and severity, natural disasters, terrorism threats, third-party liability, and claims that are incurred but not reported (IBNR). Although we engage third-party actuarial professionals to assist us in determining our probable future loss exposure, it is possible that claims or costs could exceed our estimates or our insurance limits, or could be uninsurable. In such instances we might be required to use working capital to satisfy these losses rather than to maintain or expand our operations, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. There are no unresolved staff comments outstanding with the Securities and Exchange Commission at this time. 