D. Risk Factors Risk Factors Relating to Brazil Brazilian political and economic conditions have a direct impact on our business and the market price of our preferred shares and ADSs. The Brazilian economy has been characterized by volatile economic cycles. In addition, the Brazilian government frequently, and occasionally drastically, intervenes in the Brazilian economy. The Brazilian government has often changed monetary, taxation, credit, tariff and other policies to influence the course of Brazil’s economy. For example, the Brazilian government has the authority, when a serious imbalance in Brazil’s balance of payments occurs, to impose restrictions on the remittance to foreign investors of the proceeds of their investments in Brazil, and on the conversion of Brazilian currency into foreign currencies. The Company’s business, financial condition 8 and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in policy including tariffs, exchange controls and other matters, as well as factors such as: · currency fluctuations, · inflation, · price instability, · interest rates, · tax policy, and · other political, diplomatic, social and economic developments in or affecting Brazil. Rapid changes in Brazilian political and economic conditions that have already occurred and that might continue will require the Company’s continued emphasis on assessing the risks associated with its activities and adjusting its business and operating strategy. Future developments in Brazilian government policies or in the Brazilian economy, over which the Company has no control, may reduce demand for the Company’s products in Brazil, and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The year 2005 was characterized by high interest rates, with the main objective of controlling inflation rates, and also by the continuous appreciation of the Real. The high interest rates that started to decrease in September 2005, contributed to the weak growth of Brazil in 2005, around 2%. The following table shows the SELIC (“Sistema Especial de Liquidação e de Custódia”) interest rate per month for the dates indicated. January, 2005 1,48% February, 2005 1,38% March, 2005 1,22% April, 2005 1,53% May, 2005 1,41% June, 2005 1,50% July, 2005 1,59% August, 2005 1,51% September, 2005 1,66% October, 2005 1,50% November, 2005 1,41% December, 2005 1,38% January, 2006 1,47% 9 February, 2006 1,43% March, 2006 1,15% April, 2006 1,42% May, 2006 1,08% Exchange rate instability may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our preferred shares and ADSs. Because a portion of our expenses and a significant portion of our assets and liabilities are denominated in reais and we have U.S. dollar-denominated revenues, debt and other liabilities, we may be adversely affected by foreign exchange rate volatility. See “—Selected Financial Data—Exchange Rates.” Our operating cash expenses are substantially denominated in reais and will generally decrease, as expressed in U.S. dollars, as a result of any devaluation of the real. If the rate of Brazilian inflation increases more rapidly than the rate of appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the real, then, as expressed in U.S. dollars, our operating expenses may increase and (assuming constant U.S. dollar sales prices), our profit margins decrease. In addition, any significant devaluation of the real may produce exchange gains on unhedged debt denominated in reais. In 2002, the depreciation of the real relative to the U.S. dollar totaled 52%, due in part to the continued economic and political uncertainties in emerging markets and the global economic slowdown. In 2003 Brazil started a new cycle of Real appreciation relatively to the U.S. dollar and the rate in that year was 18.2%. In 2004 the appreciation of the Real relative to U.S. dollar was 8.1% and in 2005 the Real appreciated 11,8%, representing an accumulated appreciation of 33,7% since the beginning of 2003. Inflation and certain governmental measures to control inflation may contribute significantly to economic uncertainty in Brazil and to heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities markets. Brazil has historically experienced extremely high rates of inflation. Inflation itself, as well as certain governmental measures to combat inflation and public speculation about possible future measures, has in the past had significant negative effects on the Brazilian economy. The Company’s cash operating expenses are substantially denominated in Reais and tend to increase with Brazilian inflation because its suppliers and providers generally increase prices to reflect the depreciation of the value of the currency. As expressed in U.S. dollars, however, these increases are typically offset at least in part by the effect of the appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Real. If the rate of Brazilian inflation increases more rapidly than the rate of appreciation of the U.S. dollar, then, as expressed in U.S. dollars, operating expenses may increase and (assuming constant U.S. dollar sales prices) profit margins decrease. In addition, high inflation generally leads to higher domestic interest rates, and as a result the Company’s costs of Real-denominated debt may increase. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Brazilian Economic Environment.” We may be impacted by governmental actions affecting the Brazilian markets and economy. The Brazilian government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial influence over many aspects of the private sector. The Brazilian government owns or controls many companies, including some of the largest in Brazil. For example, Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social — BNDES, which is owned by the Brazilian government, indirectly owned approximately 12.5% of our common stock as of December 31, 2005 and has, through a subsidiary, advanced approximately 20% of our total consolidated indebtedness as of such date. See “Item 7B. Related Party Transactions.” 10 Developments in other emerging markets may adversely affect the market price of our preferred shares and ADSs The Brazilian securities markets are, to varying degrees, influenced by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries, especially those in Latin America. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investors’ reaction to developments in one country can have an effect on the securities of issuers in other countries, including Brazil. Developments or conditions in other emerging market countries have, at times, significantly affected the availability of credit in the Brazilian economy and resulted in considerable outflows of funds and declines in the amount of foreign currency invested in Brazil. For example, in 2001 after a prolonged recession followed by political instability, the Argentine government announced that it would no longer continue to service its public debt. In order to address the deteriorating economic and social conditions, the Argentine government abandoned its decade-old fixed dollar-peso exchange rate, allowing the peso to float to market rate levels. In 2002, the Argentine peso experienced a 237% devaluation against the U.S. dollar. The situation in Argentina, one of Brazil’s largest trading partners, negatively affected investors’ perceptions of Brazilian securities. Similar developments in the international financial markets, in the future, especially in Latin America, may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and its ability to raise capital when needed. There can be no assurance that the Brazilian securities markets will not continue to be affected negatively by events elsewhere, especially in emerging markets, or that such events will not adversely affect the value of the Company’s preferred shares or ADS. Risks Relating to our Preferred Shares and ADSs Exchange controls and restrictions on remittances abroad may adversely affect holders of ADSs. You may be adversely affected by the imposition of restrictions on the remittance to foreign investors of the proceeds of their investments in Brazil and the conversion of reais into foreign currencies. The Brazilian government imposed remittance restrictions for a number of months in 1989 and early 1990. These restrictions would hinder or prevent the conversion of dividends, distributions or the proceeds from any sale of our preferred shares into U.S. dollars and remitting the U.S. dollars abroad. We cannot ensure that the Brazilian government will not take similar measures in the future. See “Item 10D. Exchange Controls.” Holders of the ADSs could be adversely affected by delays in, or a refusal to grant, any required Brazilian governmental approval for conversion of real payments and remittances abroad in respect of the shares of Class B Stock underlying the ADSs. In such case, the Depositary will hold the reais it cannot convert for the account of the ADS holders who have not been paid. Exchanging ADSs for the underlying Class B Stock may have unfavorable consequences. The Brazilian custodian for our Class B Stock, or the Custodian, must obtain an electronic certificate of registration from the Central Bank to remit U.S. dollars abroad for payments of dividends, any other cash distributions, or upon the disposition of the shares and sales proceeds related thereto. If you decide to exchange your ADSs for the underlying Class B Stock, you will be entitled to continue to rely—for five business days from the date of the exchange—on the ADS Depositary’s electronic certificate of registration. Thereafter, you may not be able to obtain and remit U.S. dollars abroad upon the disposition of the Class B Stock, or distributions relating to the Class B Stock, unless you obtain your own electronic certificate of registration pursuant to Resolution No. 2,689, of January 26, 2000, of the National Monetary Council, known as Resolution 2,689, which entitles foreign investors to buy and sell on the São Paulo stock exchange. If you do not obtain a certificate of registration under Resolution 2,689, you may not be able to obtain and remit abroad U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies upon the disposition of Class B Stock or distributions with respect thereto, and you will generally be subject to less favorable tax treatment on gains with respect to the Class B Stock. If you attempt to obtain your own electronic certificate of registration, you may incur expenses or suffer significant delays in the application process. Obtaining an electronic certificate of registration involves generating significant documentation, including completing and filing various electronic forms with the Central Bank and the Comissão de Valores Mobiliários, or the CVM. These expenses or delays could adversely impact your ability to remit dividends or distributions relating to the Class B Stock or the return of your capital outside of Brazil in a timely manner. If you decide to exchange your Class B Stock back into 11 ADSs once you have registered your investment in the Class B Stock, you may deposit your Class B Stock with the Custodian and rely on the Depositary’s certificate of registration, subject to certain conditions. See “Item 10D. Exchange Controls.” We cannot assure you that the Depositary’s certificate of registration or any certificate of foreign capital registration obtained by you may not be affected by future legislative or other regulatory changes, or that additional Brazilian restrictions applicable to you, the disposition of the underlying Class B Stock or the repatriation of the proceeds from disposition could not be imposed in the future. The relative volatility and illiquidity of the Brazilian securities markets may adversely affect holders of ADSs. Investments in securities, such as the Class B Stock or the ADSs, of issuers from emerging market countries including Brazil involve a higher degree of risk than investing in securities of issuers from more developed countries. The Brazilian securities market is substantially smaller, less liquid, more concentrated and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. These features may substantially limit holders’ ability to sell the preferred shares underlying the ADSs at a price and time at which holders wish to do so. The São Paulo Stock Exchange (Bolsa de Valores de São Paulo), or BOVESPA, the main Brazilian stock exchange, had a market capitalization of approximately US$482 billion as of December 31, 2005, and an average daily trading volume of approximately US$667 million in 2005. In comparison, the NYSE had a market capitalization of US$21.4 trillion as of December 31, 2005, and an average daily trading volume of approximately US$56.1 billion for 2005. There is also significantly greater concentration in the Brazilian securities market than in major securities markets in the United States. The ten largest companies in terms of market capitalization represented approximately 30% of the aggregate market capitalization of BOVESPA as of December 31, 2005. The top ten stocks in terms of trading volume accounted for approximately 51.3% of all shares traded on BOVESPA. Because we are subject to specific rules and regulations as a Brazilian company, holders of our ADSs have fewer and less well defined shareholders’ rights than investors in U.S. companies. Our corporate affairs are governed by our by-laws and the Brazilian corporate law, which differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States, such as Delaware or New York, or in certain other jurisdictions outside Brazil. In addition, your rights or the rights of holders of the preferred shares under the Brazilian corporate law to protect your interests relative to actions taken by our board of directors or the holders of common shares may be fewer and less well defined than under the laws of other jurisdictions outside Brazil. Although Brazilian law imposes restrictions on insider trading and price manipulation, the Brazilian securities markets are not as highly regulated and supervised as the securities markets in the United States or certain other jurisdictions. For example, certain provisions of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that apply to U.S. companies do not apply to us. In addition, rules and policies against self-dealing and regarding the preservation of shareholder interests may be less well developed and enforced in Brazil than in the United States, potentially disadvantaging holders of our preferred shares and ADSs. When compared to Delaware general corporation law, the Brazilian corporate law and practice have less detailed and less well established rules and judicial precedents relating to the review of management decisions under duty of care and duty of loyalty standards in the context of corporate restructurings, transactions with related parties and sale-of-business transactions. In addition, shareholders must hold 5% of the outstanding share capital of a corporation to have the necessary standing to bring shareholders’ derivative suits. Shareholders ordinarily do not have standing to bring a class action. Also, in accordance with Brazilian corporate law and our by-laws, holders of our preferred shares, and therefore of our ADSs, are not entitled to vote at meetings of our shareholders except in limited circumstances. See “Item 10B. Memorandum and Articles of Association.” 12 You may not be able to exercise preemptive rights. You may not be able to exercise the preemptive rights relating to the Class B Stock underlying the ADSs unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective with respect to those rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obligated to file a registration statement with respect to the shares relating to these preemptive rights, and we cannot assure investors that we will file any such registration statement. Unless we file a registration statement or an exemption from registration applies, investors may receive only the net proceeds from the sale of their preemptive rights by the Depositary, or if the preemptive rights cannot be sold, they will be allowed to lapse. We are incorporated under the laws of Brazil. All of our directors and executive officers, and the experts named in this annual report, reside outside the U.S. Substantially all of our assets, and our directors’ and officers’ assets and such experts’ assets are located outside the U.S. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the U.S. upon us or our directors, executive officers or such experts, or to enforce against them or us, judgments obtained in U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the U.S. In addition, we have been advised by our Brazilian counsel, that there is doubt that the courts of Brazil will enforce against us, our officers, directors and experts named herein, judgments obtained in the U.S. based upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the U.S. or will enter judgments in original actions brought in Brazilian courts based upon the federal securities laws of the U.S. Risk Factors Relating to Aracruz and the Pulp Industry The market prices for our products are cyclical. The prices we are able to obtain for our pulp depend on prevailing world prices for market pulp. Worldwide pulp prices have historically been cyclical, subject to significant fluctuations over short periods of time, due to a number of factors, including: · worldwide demand for pulp products, · worldwide production capacity, · the strategies adopted by major pulp producers, and · the availability of substitutes for our products. All of these factors are beyond our control. After reaching a peak in the middle of 1995, market pulp prices continued to fall through the first quarter of 1999, due primarily to a significant drop in demand, although market prices began to increase beginning in the second quarter of 1999 and continued to increase through the second half of 1999 and early 2000. In the second half of 2000, market prices of pulp were flat for the whole period. Weak demand and excess inventories in the hands of pulp producers caused eucalyptus pulp list prices to fall at the end of March 2001. Market conditions remained difficult through 2002, with Europe being the most challenging market. In 2002 the average list price of BEKP in North America decreased 8% compared to the average list price in 2001; this was primarily due to the slowdown in the growth of the major economies which began in 2001 that continued to negatively impact the global demand for paper throughout 2002. Global product availability was limited due to pulp production curtailments as a result of inventory adjustments, maintenance and bad weather conditions in the Northern Hemisphere. At the same time, pulp demand remained relatively stable in the majority of the markets, except in Asia and especially in China, where demand was above levels of the previous year. Consequently, global pulp inventories were driven down to below the historic level. In 2003, shipments of BEKP increased the most when compared to other grades. From January to November 2003, deliveries grew 14%, mainly to Asia and Western Europe. This compares with relatively flat shipments of northern hardwood and a 9% decline in southern hardwood. Over the course of the fourth quarter, an increase of approximately 300,000 tons in the aggregate stocks (5.5 million tons at the end of December) put pressure on pulp prices, resulting in a $10 — $20/ton erosion of list prices in December. In 2003 the average list price for BEKP was US$ 540/t. In 2004, the average list price for BEKP (North America delivered) was US$ 563/t. Demand for BEKP continued strong through the first quarter of 2005 as 13 expected, with shipments registering an increase of 7% until February 2005. This strong demand permitted the implementation of price increases, the average list price for BEKP (North America delivered) in the first quarter of 2005 was US$ 595/t. In 2005 the international climate was favorable, marked by continued Chinese economic growth and improved economic performance of the United States, Europe and Japan. The price of most commodities increased, including pulp. The average list price for BEKP delivered to North America in 2005 was US$ 625/t, 11% above the 2004 level. A sensitivity analysis shows that the highest price levels realized in 2005 added approximately US$115 million in net revenue this year, compared to 2004. In the first quarter of 2006, the average list price for BEKP (North America delivered) was US$ 649/t. Discounts from list prices are frequently granted by sellers to significant purchasers. It is possible that market prices for pulp will decline in the future, or that there will not be sufficient demand for the Company’s products to enable it to operate its production facilities in an economical manner. The Company has long term supply contracts with various customers and no assurance can be given that the prices for pulp or paper will stabilize or not decline further in the future, or that demand for the Company’s products will not decline in the future. As a result, no assurance can be given that the Company will be able to operate its production facilities in a profitable manner in the future. The Company’s results of operations would be materially adversely affected if the price of its product were to decline significantly. See also “Item 4B. Business Overview—Market Overview.” We face significant competition, which may adversely affect our market share. The pulp industry is highly competitive. In the international pulp markets, we compete with larger competitors that have greater financial strength, higher production capacities and access to cheaper sources of capital. In addition, most markets are served by several suppliers, often from different countries. Many factors influence our competitive position, including plant efficiencies and operating rates in relation to our competitors, and the availability, quality and cost of wood, energy, chemicals and labor. To the extent that pulp from other hardwoods can be substituted for the more expensive BEKP, we also compete with producers in the broader segment of the pulp market. Some of our competitors in this market have greater financial, marketing and other resources, larger customer bases and greater breadth of product offerings than we do. If we are unable to remain competitive with these producers in the future, our market share may be adversely affected. See “Item 4B. Business Overview—Competition.” We may be adversely affected by the imposition and enforcement of more stringent environmental regulations that would require us to spend additional funds. The Company is subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations in Brazil on the national, state and local levels. Changes in environmental laws and regulations or changes in the policy of enforcement of existing environmental laws and regulations could adversely affect it. The Company’s operations are supervised by governmental agencies that are responsible for the implementation of pollution control laws and policies. These agencies could take action against the Company if it failed to comply with applicable environmental regulations. These actions could include the imposition of fines and revocation of licenses and concessions. Although changes in laws and regulations apply only prospectively under Brazilian law, it is possible that the relevant legislatures and/or governmental agencies will impose additional regulations or seek a more stringent interpretation of existing laws and regulations that would require the Company to spend additional funds on environmental matters or limit the Company’s ability to operate as it currently does. In addition, such actions by such governmental bodies could impose additional costs to be borne by the Company when it renews existing licenses or applies for new ones. 14 Actions by federal or state legislature may adversely affect our operations. In September 2001, the legislature of the State of Espírito Santo, where we own approximately 168,500 of forest and other land, passed a law temporarily restricting the plantation of eucalyptus forests for purposes of pulp production within the State. In June 2002, this law was declared to be unconstitutional by a provisional decision of the Brazilian Federal Supreme Court, and injunctive relief was granted in response to suits brought by the National Confederation of Industry and by the National Brazilian Confederation of Agriculture and Cattle Raising. The Company believes that such provisional decision will be upheld by the court’s definitive decision on the merits. However, there can be no assurance that such definitive decision will be favorable to the Company or that similar laws will not be enacted that would impose a limitation or restriction on plantation of eucalyptus or that would affect our licenses or permits. On March 13, 2002, the Espírito Santo legislative assembly created an investigating commission (Comissão Parlamentar de Inquérito) to investigate the legality of our permits and the acquisition of our properties, since we began our operations in Espírito Santo. As the procedures in the investigation were not concluded within the prescribed time period for such a type of investigation, the commission was terminated without issuing a final report. The Company is confident that all its permits and acquisition documents are strictly in accordance with all laws and regulations. However, we cannot be certain that a governmental entity will not initiate similar or other investigations in the future that would cause us to incur significant expense and divert management’s attention. In May 2003 the Human Rights Commission of the Brazilian House of Representatives (“Câmara dos Deputados”) created a Working Group to discuss the alleged violation of economic, social, cultural and environmental rights in the eucalyptus plantations in the State of Espírito Santo. Among other issues, several complaints involving the Company were discussed. Representatives of the Company participated in a Public Hearing and presented to the Commission extensive reports, information, evidence, technical studies and governmental and judicial decisions that demonstrate that the complaints were unjustified. The Working Group was terminated without issuing a final report. However, the Company cannot be certain that a governmental entity will not initiate similar or other investigations in the future that would cause the Company to incur significant expense and divert management’s attention. If we are unable to manage potential problems and risks related to acquisitions and alliances, our business and growth prospects may suffer. Some of our competitors may be better positioned to acquire other pulp and paper businesses. The Company, as part of its business strategy, made a major acquisition by purchasing Riocell and may acquire other businesses in Brazil or elsewhere. In addition, the Company has made a significant joint venture investment in Veracel and may enter into other similar arrangements or alliances with third parties. Our management is unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisitions or alliances will occur, or the likelihood of a material transaction being completed on favorable terms and conditions. Our ability to continue to expand successfully through acquisitions or alliances depends on many factors, including the availability to identify acquisitions and negotiate, finance and close transactions. Acquisitions and similar joint ventures or other arrangements have significant risks: · we could fail to successfully integrate the operations, services and products of any acquired company; · we could fail to select the best partners or fail to effectively plan and manage any alliance strategy; · the acquisitions could increase our costs; · our management’s attention could be diverted from other business concerns; and · we could lose key employees of the acquired company. 15 Our failure to integrate any new businesses or manage our investment in Veracel or any new alliances successfully could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Furthermore, the world pulp industry is undergoing consolidation, and many companies compete for acquisition and alliance opportunities in our industry. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. This may reduce the likelihood that we will be successful in completing acquisitions and alliances necessary for the expansion of our business or cause such acquisition or alliances to be possible only on less favorable terms. In addition, any major acquisition we consider may be subject to regulatory approval. We may not be successful in obtaining required regulatory approvals on a timely basis or at all. We are controlled by a few shareholders, what can cause impasse on certain decisions. Approximately 96.5% of our voting stock is owned by four principal shareholders, who have the ability to control the election of our board of directors and our direction and future operations, including decisions regarding acquisitions and other business opportunities, the declaration of dividends in excess of the requirements under our by-laws and Brazilian corporate law, and the issuance of additional shares and other securities. See “Item 7A. Major Shareholders.” Dependence on Few Customers and the Loss of any of them can Cause a Significant Impact over our Operations The Company’s marketing strategy is to develop long-term relationships with customers that will purchase the Company’s production year after year. In 2005, the Company’s three largest customers accounted for approximately 54% of its sales (by volume). See “Market Overview — Markets and Customers”. The Company believes that the loss of any of these customers would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. 