ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a variety of risk and the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business and the forward-looking information in this document. Set forth below are the most significant factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements or information in this document. Please also see the “Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosures” in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The risks described below are not the only risks our business faces. We may also be adversely affected by additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem less significant or unlikely than those listed. The global economic crisis could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity. The recent distress in the financial markets has resulted in extreme volatility in security prices and diminished liquidity and credit availability, and there can be no assurance that our liquidity will not be affected by changes in the financial markets and the global economy. Although we believe that the cash provided by our operations and through our short and long-term investments will provide us with sufficient liquidity through the current credit crisis, the current economic crisis could be more prolonged and pervasive than anticipated. We have significant amounts of cash and cash equivalents that are invested in various tax exempt or treasury money market funds. With the current financial environment and the instability of financial institutions, we cannot be assured that we will not experience losses on our investments. All of our stores are located within the United States, making us highly susceptible to deteriorations in U.S. macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence. All of our stores are located within the United States, making our results highly dependent on U.S. consumer confidence and the health of the U.S. economy. In addition, a significant portion of our total sales is derived from stores located in eight states: Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Illinois, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, resulting in further dependence on local economic conditions in these states. Deterioration in macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence could negatively impact our business in many ways, including: 7 Table of Contents · slowing sales growth or reduction in overall sales; · reducing gross margins; and · increasing our expenses. The current downturn in the U.S. economy is likely to continue to negatively affect discretionary consumer purchases of apparel, including our merchandise, and thus impact our results of operations and continued growth. It is difficult to predict how long the current economic, capital and credit market conditions will continue and what long-term impact, if any, they will have on our business. In the short-term, however, these conditions have negatively affected our results of operations. If we are unable to anticipate or react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner, our sales, merchandise margins and operating income could decline. Our success largely depends on our ability to consistently gauge fashion trends and provide merchandise that satisfies customer demands for each of our two brands in a timely manner. Any missteps may affect merchandise desirability and inventory levels, since we enter into agreements to manufacture and purchase our merchandise well in advance of the selling season for such merchandise. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately in a timely manner to changes in fashion trends could lead to lower sales, missed opportunities, excess inventories and more frequent and larger markdowns, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. Merchandise misjudgments could also negatively impact our image with our customers and result in diminished brand loyalty. Our ability to manage inventory levels may impact our results. The long lead time usually required for our merchandise makes customer demand difficult to predict and responding to changes quickly a challenge. Our financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to manage inventory levels and respond to short-term shifts in customer demand patterns. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in excessive markdowns and, therefore, lower than planned margins. On the other hand, if we underestimate demand for our merchandise we may experience inventory shortages resulting in missed sales and lost revenues. Either of these events could harm our operating results and brand image. The absence of or further reduction in mall traffic could significantly reduce our sales and leave us with unsold inventory. A significant portion of our current stores are located in shopping malls. Sales at these stores are contingent, in large part, on the volume of traffic in those malls. Sales volume has been adversely affected by the reduction in traffic at malls generally and at specific malls due to the economic downturn, the closing of anchor department stores and competition from non-mall retailers and other malls where we have fewer stores. A decline in the desirability of the shopping environment of a particular mall, or in the popularity of mall shopping generally among our customers, could limit the number of customers visiting our stores. This could decrease our level of sales and leave us with excess inventory. In such circumstances, we may respond by increasing markdowns or initiating marketing promotions to reduce excess inventory, which could further decrease our merchandise margins and operating income. We operate in a highly competitive retail industry. The size and resources of some of our competitors may allow them to compete more effectively than we can, which could result in loss of market share. The women’s specialty retail industry is highly competitive. We compete primarily with women’s apparel retailers, department stores, catalog retailers and Internet businesses that also engage in the retail sale of women’s apparel. We believe that the principal bases upon which we compete are the quality, design and price of our merchandise and the quality of our customer service. Many of our competitors are companies with greater financial, marketing and other resources. They may be able to adapt to changes in customer requirements more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products, generate greater national brand recognition and/or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. In addition, an increased level of promotions or discounted sales by our competitors may adversely affect response rates to our merchandise or to our own level of promotions or sales. As a result, we may lose market share, which could reduce our revenues, merchandise margins and operating income. In addition to competing for sales, we compete for favorable store locations, lease terms and qualified associates. 8 Table of Contents Fluctuations in our level of same-store sales could adversely affect our earnings growth and stock price. A variety of factors has historically affected, and will continue to affect, our comparable stores sales results and profit margins. These factors include fashion trends and customer preferences, changes in our merchandise mix, competition, economic conditions, weather, effective inventory management and new store openings. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under Item 7. There is no assurance that we will achieve positive levels of same-store sales and earnings growth, and any decline in our future growth or performance could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, as well as result in further impairment in our long-lived (i.e., store) assets. Our stock price has experienced, and could continue to experience in the future, substantial volatility as a result of many factors, including recent global economic conditions, broad market fluctuations and public perception of the prospects for the women’s apparel industry. Failure to meet market expectations, particularly with respect to comparable store sales, net revenues, operating margins and earnings per share, would likely result in a decline in the market price of our stock. Our results of operations could deteriorate if we fail to attract, develop and retain qualified employees. Our success depends to a significant extent both on the continued services of our current executive and senior management team, as well as our ability to attract, hire, motivate and retain qualified employees, including store personnel, in the future. The turnover rate in the retail industry’s store operations is high, and qualified individuals of the requisite caliber and number needed to fill open positions may be in short supply in some geographic areas. Significant increases in employee turnover rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe we have benefited substantially from the leadership and strategic guidance of our key executives and members of our creative team, who are primarily responsible for developing our merchandise and reinforcing our brand identity. The loss, for any reason, of the services of any of these key individuals could delay or adversely affect the implementation of our strategies and tactics or the merchandise we offer. Our ability to achieve the results of our SG&A expense and capital expenditure reduction program may impact our operating results. In order to maintain or improve our operating margins, we need to successfully manage our operating costs. We have previously announced a program to reduce our SG&A expenses by more than $15 million and our capital expenditures by $8 million in fiscal 2010, as part of a major drive to improve overall operating effectiveness. The benefits associated with our initiatives are based on forecasts, which may vary substantially from our actual results. We cannot assure the successful implementation of our planned cost reductions and capital expenditure reduction plans. Our inability to successfully manage labor costs, occupancy costs or other operating costs, or our inability to take advantage of opportunities to reduce operating costs, could adversely affect our operating margins and our results of operations. We are highly dependent on a few suppliers who primarily manufacture overseas and our reliance on foreign sources of production poses various risks. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend on independent third parties to manufacture our merchandise. We cannot be certain that we will not experience operational difficulties with our manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with merchandise specifications, insufficient quality control and failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. In fiscal 2009, approximately 48% of our merchandise was directly imported from foreign factories and our ten largest suppliers accounted for approximately 52% of the merchandise we purchased. Substantially all of the Company’s directly imported merchandise is manufactured in Southeast Asia. Purchases from the Company’s largest overseas supplier accounted for approximately 15% of total purchases in fiscal 2009. The majority of these goods are produced in China, Hong Kong and Singapore. An adverse change in the status of our relationship with our largest supplier or any event causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing or imports from Asia or elsewhere, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, could materially harm our operations. We have no long-term merchandise supply contracts, and we compete with other companies for production facilities and import quota capacity. 9 Table of Contents As we purchase a significant portion of our merchandise that is manufactured overseas, we are subject to the various risks of doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, such as: · imposition of new legislation relating to import quotas or other restrictions that may limit the quantity of our merchandise that may be imported into the United States from countries in regions where we do business; · significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to port security considerations; · imposition of anti-dumping or countervailing duties in response to an investigation as to whether a particular product being sold in the United States at less than fair value may cause (or threaten to cause) material injury to the relevant domestic industry; · financial or political instability in any of the countries in which our merchandise is manufactured; · impact of natural disasters and public health concerns on our foreign sourcing offices and vendor manufacturing operations; · fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies or restrictions on the transfer of funds; · potential recalls for any merchandise that does not meet our quality standards; and · disruption of imports by labor disputes and local business practices. We cannot predict whether any of the foreign countries in which our merchandise is manufactured, or in which our merchandise may be manufactured in the future, will be subject to import restrictions by the U.S. government. Any sudden disruption of manufacturing or imposition of trade restrictions, such as increased tariffs or more restrictive quotas on apparel or other items we sell, could affect the import of such merchandise and could increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. In addition, the raw materials used to manufacture our merchandise are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by high demand for fabrics, weather conditions, supply conditions, government regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. Increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials used to manufacture our merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales or our ability to meet our customers’ needs. We may not be able to pass all or a material portion of such higher raw material costs on to our customers, which could negatively impact our profitability. Our inability to maintain the value of our brands and our trademarks may adversely affect our business and financial performance. Our success depends in part on the value of our Christopher & Banks and C.J. Banks brands. The Christopher & Banks and C.J. Banks names are integral to our business, as well as to the implementation of our strategies for expanding our business. Maintaining, promoting and positioning our brands will depend largely on the success of our design, merchandising and marketing efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high quality customer experience. Our brands could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve these objectives for one or both of these brands and our public image and reputation could be tarnished by negative publicity. Any of these events could negatively impact sales. We also believe that our “christopher & banks” and “cj banks” trademarks are important to our success. Even though we register and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights, there is no assurance that our actions will protect us from the prior registration by others or prevent others from infringing our trademarks and proprietary rights or seeking to block sales of our products as infringements of their trademarks and proprietary rights. If we cannot adequately protect our marks or prevent infringement of them, our business and financial performance could suffer. We face challenges to grow our business and to manage our growth. Our growth is dependent, in large part, upon our ability to successfully add new stores. In addition, on a routine basis, we close underperforming stores, which may result in write-offs. The success of our growth strategy, which involves opening fewer stores in fiscal 2010 than in the past several years, depends upon a number of factors, including the identification of suitable markets and sites for new stores, negotiation of leases on acceptable terms, construction or renovation of sites in a timely manner at acceptable costs and maintenance of the productivity of our existing store base. Our failure to open new stores on a timely basis, obtain acceptance in markets in which we currently have limited or no presence, attract qualified management and personnel or appropriately adjust operational systems and procedures would have an adverse affect on our growth prospects. 10 Table of Contents Our ability to successfully upgrade and maintain our information systems to support the needs of the organization is subject to various risks. We rely heavily on information systems to manage our operations, including a full range of retail, financial, sourcing and merchandising systems, and regularly make investments to upgrade, enhance or replace these systems. We have invested significantly the past several years in a number of system implementations and upgrades at a considerable cost and it is possible these improvements will not be as effective as planned or yield the anticipated benefits. The reliability and capacity of our information systems is critical. Despite our preventative efforts, our systems are vulnerable from time-to-time to damage or interruption from, among other things, security breaches, computer viruses, power outages and other technical malfunctions. Any disruptions affecting our information systems, or any delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems or in integrating them with current systems, could have a material adverse impact on our business. Any failure to maintain adequate system security controls to protect our computer assets and sensitive data, including customer data, from unauthorized access, disclosure or use could also damage our reputation with our customers. In addition, our ability to continue to operate our business without significant interruption in the event of a disaster or other disruption depends in part on the ability of our information systems to operate in accordance with our disaster recovery and business continuity plans. We depend significantly on a single operations and distribution facility. All of our administrative and distribution operations are housed in a single facility. A significant interruption in the operation of this facility due to natural disasters, accidents or other events could reduce our ability to receive and provide merchandise to our stores, as well as reduce our ability to administer and oversee our business, which could reduce our sales and results of operations. The success of our stores depends on their timely receipt of merchandise from our distribution center. An independent third party transportation company delivers our merchandise to our stores. Disruptions in the delivery of merchandise or work stoppages by employees of this third party could delay the timely receipt of merchandise, which could result in lost sales, a loss of loyalty to our brands and the late receipt of inventory when it is no longer seasonally appropriate. Timely receipt of merchandise by our stores may also be affected by factors such as inclement weather, natural disasters, accidents, system failures and acts of terrorism. There are risks associated with our e-commerce sales. We sell merchandise over the Internet through our web sites, www.christopherandbanks.com and www.cjbanks.com. Our e-commerce operations are subject to numerous risks, including: · reliance on third party computer hardware/software and on a single fulfillment center; · rapid technological change; · diversion of sales from our stores; · liability for online content; · violations of state or federal privacy laws; · credit card fraud; · risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate our web sites and their related support systems, including computer viruses; · telecommunications failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions; and · timely delivery of our merchandise to our customers by third parties. There is no assurance that our e-commerce operations will meet our sales and profitability plans. Effects of war, terrorism or other catastrophes could adversely impact our business or operations. Threat of terrorist attacks or actual terrorist events in the United States or worldwide could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, disrupt the production, shipment or receipt of our merchandise or lead to lower customer traffic in regional shopping centers. Natural disasters, pandemics or other significant health issues could also impact our ability to open and run our stores in affected areas. Lower customer traffic due to security concerns, war or the threat of war, natural disasters, pandemics or other health concerns could result in reduced customer traffic and decreased sales that would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Changes in federal, state or local laws and regulations, or our failure to comply with such laws and regulations, could increase our expenses and expose us to legal risks. Our business is subject to a wide array of laws and regulations which may change from time-to-time. Significant legislative changes that impact our relationship with our workforce (none of which is represented by unions as of the end of fiscal 2009) could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations. In addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, such as wage and hour or privacy laws, we could be subject to legal risk, including government enforcement action and class action civil litigation, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, we are periodically involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. Our policies, procedures and internal controls are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange, as well as applicable employment laws. Additional legal and regulatory requirements, such as those arising under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, increase the complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations may result in damage to our reputation, financial condition and market price of our stock. Our business could suffer if one of the manufacturers of the goods that we sell fails to use acceptable labor practices. We require manufacturers of the goods that we sell to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. While our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our staff and our agents periodically visit to review the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. The violation of labor or other laws by an independent manufacturer used by us, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer’s labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States, could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt the shipment of products to us or damage our reputation, which may result in a decrease in customer traffic to our stores and adversely affect our sales and net earnings. Funds associated with the auction rate securities held by us that we have traditionally held as short-term investments may not be liquid or readily available. Our investment in securities currently consists partially of auction rate securities which are not currently liquid or readily available to convert to cash and, therefore, we have reclassified these as long-term marketable security investments. We do not believe that the current liquidity issues related to our auction rate securities will impact our ability to fund our ongoing business operations. However, if the global credit crisis persists or intensifies, it is possible that we will be required to further adjust the fair value of our auction rate securities. The Company’s marketing efforts rely upon the effective use of customer information. Restrictions on the availability or use of customer information could adversely affect the Company’s marketing programs, which could result in lost sales and a decrease in profits. The Company uses its customer database to market to its customers. Any limitations imposed on the use of such consumer data, whether imposed by federal or state governments or business partners, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s future marketing activity. To the extent the Company’s or its business partners’ security procedures and protection of customer information prove to be insufficient or inadequate, the Company may become subject to litigation, which could expose it to liability and cause damage to its reputation or brand. Operating losses in tax jurisdictions with deferred tax assets could hinder our ability to continue to carry the deferred tax assets, which would result in a valuation allowance negatively impacting our consolidated results and net worth. Deferred income tax assets represent potential future income tax benefits. Realization of these assets is ultimately dependent upon future taxable income. No valuation allowance has been provided for deferred tax assets because management believes realization of the full amount of net deferred tax assets is more likely than not. While the Company has a history of profits, its profitability has declined over the last three years and the Company recorded a net loss in fiscal 2009. Therefore, achievement of profitability in fiscal 2010 will be a significant factor in determining the Company’s continuing ability to carry these deferred tax assets. 12 Table of Contents Our accounting for deferred taxes represents our best estimate of future events. If future results from our operations are less than projected, a valuation allowance may be required to reduce deferred tax assets, which could have a material impact on our results of operations in the period in which it is recorded. Significant negative events, including losses in future years, would make it reasonably possible that valuation allowances against deferred tax assets would be required in future periods. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no matters which are required to be reported under Item 1B. 