Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties which could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our business is subject to economic and business factors affecting the trucking industry that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The factors that have negatively affected us, and may do so in the future, include volatile fuel prices, excess capacity in the trucking industry, surpluses in the market for used equipment, higher interest rates, higher license and registration fees, increases in insurance premiums, higher self-insurance levels, increases in accidents and adverse claims and difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers and independent contractors. We are also affected by recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers’ business cycles. Economic conditions may adversely affect our customers and their ability to pay for our services. It is not possible to predict the effects of armed conflicts or terrorist attacks and subsequent events on the economy or on consumer confidence in the United States, or the impact, if any, on our future results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry, and our business may suffer if we are unable to adequately address downward pricing pressures and other factors that may adversely affect our ability to compete with other carriers. Numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability. These factors include: § We compete with many other truckload carriers of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with less-than-truckload carriers and railroads, some of which have more equipment or greater capital resources, or other competitive advantages. 10 § Some of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates, maintain our margins or maintain significant growth in our business. § Many customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting so-called “core carriers” as approved service providers, and in some instances we may not be selected. § Many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some of our business to competitors. § The trend toward consolidation in the trucking industry may create large carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages relating to their size, and we may have difficulty competing with these larger carriers. § Advances in technology require increased investments to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher freight rates to cover the cost of these investments. § Competition from internet-based and other logistics and freight brokerage companies may adversely affect our customer relationships and freight rates. § Economies of scale that may be passed on to smaller carriers by procurement aggregation providers may improve their ability to compete with us. Increased prices for new revenue equipment and decreases in the value of used revenue equipment may adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. If we are unable to obtain favorable prices for our used equipment, or if the cost of new equipment continues to increase, we will increase our depreciation expense or recognize less gain (or a loss) on the disposition of our tractors and trailers. This has affected and may again adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. During certain periods in the past, a depressed market for used equipment has caused us to decrease the amount of used equipment we traded, sometimes significantly. Decreases in our trading activity have increased the average age of our tractors during those periods and contributed, often significantly, to increases in maintenance costs, and have negatively affected our utilization rates. These factors, coupled with a change in salvage values, have also yielded increased depreciation charges to pre-tax earnings in certain periods. Although the condition of the used equipment market has improved in recent periods, values of used tractors are still below pre-2002 levels. In addition, manufacturers have recently raised the prices of new equipment significantly, in part to offset their costs of compliance with new Environmental Protection Agency tractor engine design requirements intended to reduce emissions. The initial requirements took effect October 1, 2002, and more restrictive EPA engine design requirements took effect on January 1, 2007. Further equipment price increases may result from the implementation of the 2007 requirements. If new equipment prices increase more than anticipated, we may be required to increase our depreciation and financing costs and/or retain some of our equipment longer, with a resulting increase in maintenance expenses. To the extent we are unable to offset any such increases in expenses with rate increases, our results of operations would be adversely affected. Ongoing insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings. In recent periods, we experienced significant increases in costs associated with adverse claims. If the number or severity of claims increases or does not return to historical levels, or if the costs associated with claims otherwise increase, our operating results will be adversely affected. The time that such costs are incurred may significantly impact our operating results for a particular quarter, as compared to the comparable quarter in the prior year. In addition, if we were to lose our ability to self-insure for any significant period of time, our insurance costs would materially increase and we could experience difficulty in obtaining adequate levels of coverage. In the last several years, insurance carriers increased premiums for many trucking companies. This factor, coupled with an increase in coverage, a reduction in our self-insurance retention level and our claims experience, resulted in significant increases in our insurance premiums in recent periods. We could experience additional increases in our insurance premiums in the future. If our insurance or claims expense increases, and we are unable to offset the increase with higher freight rates, our earnings could be materially and adversely affected. 11 We have significant ongoing capital requirements that could affect our profitability if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations. The trucking industry is very capital intensive. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations in the future, we may have to limit our growth, enter into financing arrangements or operate our revenue equipment for longer periods, any of which could have a material adverse affect on our profitability. We depend on the proper functioning and availability of our information systems. We depend on the proper functioning and availability of our communications and data processing systems in operating our business. Our information systems are protected through physical and software safeguards. However, they are still vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins and similar events. We do not have a catastrophic disaster recovery plan or a fully redundant alternate processing capability. If any of our critical information systems fail or become otherwise unavailable, we would have to perform the functions manually, which could temporarily impact our ability to manage our fleet efficiently, to respond to customers’ requests effectively, to maintain billing and other records reliably and to bill for services accurately or in a timely manner. Our business interruption insurance may be inadequate to protect us in the event of a catastrophe. Any system failure, security breach or other damage could interrupt or delay our operations, damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers. We depend on our major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from our major customers. For fiscal year 2006, our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 36% of our revenue, our top five customers accounted for approximately 23% of our revenue and our largest customer accounted for approximately 8% of our revenue. Generally, we do not have long-term contracts with our major customers and we cannot assure you that our customer relationships will continue as presently in effect. A reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we are unable to retain our key executives, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. We are dependent upon the services of our executive management team. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on any members of our management team. The loss of their services could have a material adverse effect on our operations and future profitability. We must continue to develop and retain a core group of managers if we are to realize our goal of expanding our operations and continuing our growth. We operate in a highly regulated industry and increased costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The U.S. Department of Transportation and various state agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing such activities as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety, insurance requirements and financial reporting. We may also become subject to new or more restrictive regulations relating to fuel emissions, drivers’ hours of service and ergonomics. Our Canadian business activities are subject to similar requirements imposed by the laws and regulations of the Dominion of Canada and provincial laws and regulations. Compliance with such regulations could substantially reduce equipment productivity, and the costs of compliance could increase our operating expenses. Our Company drivers and independent contractors also must comply with the safety and fitness regulations promulgated by the Department of Transportation, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours of service. The Transportation Security Administration of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security adopted regulations that will require all new drivers and drivers who renew their licenses who carry hazardous materials to undergo background checks by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. While we have historically required all our drivers to obtain this qualification, these new regulations could reduce the availability of qualified drivers, which could require us to adjust our driver compensation package, limit the growth of our fleet or let trucks sit idle. These regulations could also complicate the process of matching available equipment with shipments that include hazardous materials, thereby increasing the time it takes us to respond to customer orders and increasing our empty miles. Failures to comply with Department of Transportation safety regulations or downgrades in our safety rating could have a material adverse impact on our operations or financial condition. A downgrade in our safety rating could cause us to lose the ability to self-insure. The loss of our ability to self-insure for any significant period of 12 time would materially increase our insurance costs. In addition, we may experience difficulty in obtaining adequate levels of coverage in that event. Decreases in the availability of new tractors and trailers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. From time to time, some tractor and trailer vendors have reduced their manufacturing output due, for example, to lower demand for their products in economic downturns or a shortage of component parts. As conditions changed, some of those vendors have had difficulty fulfilling the increased demand for new equipment. There have been periods when we were unable to purchase as much new revenue equipment as we needed to sustain our desired growth rate and to maintain a late-model fleet. We may experience similar difficulties in future periods. Also, vendors have had to introduce new engines meeting the more restrictive Environmental Protection Agency emissions standards in 2007. An inability to continue to obtain an adequate supply of new tractors or trailers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved written SEC staff comments regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 received 180 days or more before the end of the fiscal year to which this annual report on Form 10-K relates. 