Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our businesses are cyclical, and we cannot predict the timing or severity of future economic or industry downturns. The nonresidential construction industry is highly sensitive to national and regional economic conditions. From time to time, it has been adversely affected in various parts of the country by unfavorable economic conditions, low use of manufacturing capacity, high vacancy rates, changes in tax laws affecting the real estate industry, high interest rates and the unavailability of financing. Sales of our products may be adversely affected by weakness in demand for our products within particular customer groups, or a recession in the general construction industry or particular geographic regions. According to the Metal Building Manufacturers Association (“MBMA”), reported sales of engineered buildings systems by their members increased from $1.5 billion in 1993 to a high of approximately $2.5 billion in 2000, and then declined, as the economy slowed in 2002, to $1.8 billion. In 2004, prices stabilized as changes in the economy and steel pricing increases ended this downward trend. We cannot predict the timing or severity of future economic or industry downturns. Any economic downturn, particularly in states where many of our sales are made, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our businesses are seasonal, and our results of operations during our first two fiscal quarters may be adversely affected by seasonality. The metal components, engineered building systems and metal coil coating businesses, and the construction industry in general, are seasonal in nature. Sales normally are lower in the first calendar quarter of each year compared to the other three quarters because of unfavorable weather conditions for construction and typical business planning cycles affecting construction. This seasonality adversely affects our results of operations for the first two fiscal quarters. Prolonged severe winter weather conditions can delay construction projects and otherwise adversely affect our business. Continued price volatility and supply constraints in the steel market could prevent us from meeting delivery schedules to our customers or reduce our profit margins. Our business is heavily dependent on the prices and supply of steel, which is the principal raw material used in our products. The steel industry is highly cyclical in nature, and steel prices have been volatile in recent years and may remain volatile in the future. Steel prices are influenced by numerous factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, competition, labor costs, production costs, import duties and other trade restrictions. We do not have any long-term contracts for the purchase of steel and normally do not maintain an inventory of steel in excess of our current production requirements. However, from time to time, we may purchase steel in advance of announced steel price increases. We can give you no assurance that steel will remain available or that prices will not continue to be volatile. While most of our contracts have escalation clauses that allow us, under certain circumstances, to pass along all or a portion of increases in the price of steel after the date of the contract but prior to delivery, we may, for competitive or other reasons, not be able to pass such price increases along. If the available supply of steel declines, we could experience price increases that we are not able to pass on to our customers, a deterioration of service from our suppliers or interruptions or delays that may cause us not to meet delivery schedules to our customers. Any of these problems could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For more information about steel pricing trends in recent years, see “Item 1. Business—Raw Materials.” We rely on a few major suppliers for our supply of steel, which makes us more vulnerable to supply constraints and pricing pressure, as well as the financial condition of those suppliers; further consolidation in the steel industry may adversely affect us. We rely on a few major suppliers for our supply of steel and may be adversely affected by the bankruptcy, financial condition or other factors affecting those suppliers. During 2001 and 2002, our primary steel suppliers, 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Bethlehem Steel Corporation and National Steel Corporation, respectively, filed for protection under Federal bankruptcy laws. During the third quarter of fiscal 2003, U.S. Steel bought substantially all of the integrated steel-making assets of National Steel, and ISG acquired the assets of Bethlehem Steel. During April 2005, Mittal Steel USA purchased ISG. During fiscal 2006, we purchased over 10% of our steel requirements from each of Mittal Steel USA and Nucor, or approximately 40% in the aggregate. A prolonged labor strike against one or more of our principal domestic suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Furthermore, if one or more of our current suppliers is unable for financial or any other reason to continue in business or to produce steel sufficient to meet our requirements, essential supply of our primary raw materials could be temporarily interrupted, and our business could be adversely affected. We are subject to preference claims by our former steel suppliers. On or about September 15, 2003, Bethlehem Steel Corporation and several of its related entities (collectively, “Bethlehem”) filed a preference-avoidance lawsuit against us and several of our operating subsidiaries in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. The lawsuit was filed as part of the Bethlehem consolidated bankruptcy proceedings, seeking reimbursement of allegedly preferential transfers made by the respective debtors in the 90-day period preceding their bankruptcy filings. Bethlehem alleges it made preferential payments to our subsidiaries of approximately $7.7 million. We have denied the allegations in the Bethlehem lawsuit and are vigorously defending against this claim. While we are not able to predict whether we will incur any liability or to accurately estimate the damages, or the range of damages, if any, we might incur in connection with the Bethlehem proceeding, it is possible that this lawsuit will adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. See “Item 3—Legal Proceedings” for additional information regarding this matter. Failure to retain or replace key personnel could hurt our operations. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the efforts, contributions and abilities of our senior management, plant managers and other highly skilled personnel, including our sales executives. These executives and managers have many accumulated years of experience in our industry and developed personal relationships with our customers that are important to our business. Some of such executives and managers are nearing retirement age. If we do not retain the services of our key personnel or if we fail to adequately plan for the succession of such individuals, our customer relationships, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. If we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights or if our intellectual property rights become obsolete, our competitive position could be adversely affected. We utilize a variety of intellectual property rights in our services. We have a number of United States patents, pending patent applications and other proprietary rights, including those relating to metal roofing systems, metal overhead doors, our pier and header system, our Long Bay® System and our building estimating and design system. We also have several registered trademarks and pending registrations in the United States. We view our portfolio of process and design technologies as one of our competitive strengths. We may not be able to successfully preserve these intellectual property rights in the future and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged. If we are unable to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights, or if there are any successful intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings against us, our business and revenue could be materially and adversely affected. We incur costs to comply with environmental laws and have liabilities for environmental cleanups. Because we have air emissions, discharge wastewater, own and operate real property, and handle hazardous substances and solid waste, we incur costs and liabilities to comply with environmental laws and regulations and may incur significant additional costs as those laws and regulations change in the future or if there is an accidental release of hazardous substances into the environment. The operations of our manufacturing facilities are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These include, 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements for example, (i) the federal Clean Air Act and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to air emissions, (ii) the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA, and comparable state laws that impose requirements for the discharge of waste from our facilities and (iii) the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, or CERCLA and comparable state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent waste for disposal. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. For more information about costs we have incurred for environmental matters in recent years, see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete with all other alternative methods of building construction, which may be viewed as more traditional, more aesthetically pleasing or having other advantages over our products. In addition, competition in the metal components and metal buildings markets of the building industry and in the metal coil coating industry is intense. It is based primarily on: • quality; • service; • on-time delivery; • ability to provide added value in the design and engineering of buildings; • price; • speed of construction in buildings and components; and • personal relationships with customers. We compete with a number of other manufacturers of metal components and engineered building systems and providers of coil coating services ranging from small local firms to large national firms. In addition, we and other manufacturers of metal components and engineered building systems compete with alternative methods of building construction. If these alternative building methods compete successfully against us, such competition could adversely affect us. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is subject to significant fluctuations in response to the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in quarterly operating results; • changes in earnings estimates by analysts; • our announcements of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; • general conditions in the metal components and engineered building systems industries; • fluctuations in stock market price and volume; and • other general economic conditions. In recent years, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price for many companies in industries similar to ours. Some of these fluctuations have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. These market fluctuations may decrease the market price of our common stock in the future. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our acquisition strategy may be unsuccessful if we incorrectly predict operating results or are unable to identify and complete future acquisitions and integrate acquired assets or businesses. We have a history of expansion through acquisitions, and we believe that as our industry continues to consolidate, our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to complete acquisitions. Growing through acquisitions and managing that growth will require us to continue to invest in operational, financial and management information systems and to attract, retain, motivate and effectively manage our employees. Pursuing and integrating acquisitions, including our recently completed acquisition of Robertson-Ceco Corporation, involves a number of risks, including: • the risk of incorrect assumptions or estimates regarding the future results of the acquired business or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring the business; • diversion of management’s attention from existing operations; • unexpected losses of key employees, customers and suppliers of the acquired business; • conforming the financial, technological and management standards, processes, procedures and controls of the acquired business with those of our existing operations; and • increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. Although we expect acquisitions to be an integral part of our future growth, we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in identifying or completing any acquisitions or that any businesses or assets that we are able to acquire will be successfully integrated into our existing business. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that any announcement or consummation of an acquisition would have on the trading prices of our securities. Our acquisition strategy subjects us to numerous risks that could adversely affect our results of operations. Acquisitions are an essential part of our growth strategy, and our ability to acquire additional businesses or operations on favorable terms is important to our long-term growth. Depending on conditions in the acquisition market, it may be difficult or impossible for us to identify business or operations for acquisition, or we may not be able to make acquisitions on terms that we consider economically acceptable. Even if we are able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities, our acquisition strategy depends upon, among other things, our ability to obtain financing and, in some cases, regulatory approvals, including under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act. Our incurrence of additional debt, contingent liabilities and expenses in connection with our recent acquisition of Robertson-Ceco Corporation, or in connection with any future acquisitions, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our financial position and results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period based on whether significant acquisitions are completed in particular periods. Competition for acquisitions is intense and may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. We may not be able to service our debt. In connection with our acquisition activity, including the Robertson-Ceco Corporation in 2006, we have incurred debt. We may also incur additional debt from time to time to finance additional acquisitions, capital expenditures or for other purposes if we comply with the restrictions in our senior secured credit agreement. The debt that we carry may have important consequences to us, including the following: • Our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or additional financing may not be available on favorable terms. • We must use a portion of our cash flow to pay the principal and interest on our debt. These payments reduce the funds that would otherwise be available for our operations and future business opportunities. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • A substantial decrease in our net operating cash flows could make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements and force us to modify our operations. • We may be more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy generally. If we cannot service our debt, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying acquisitions and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. We can give you no assurance that we can do any of these things on satisfactory terms or at all. In addition, under the terms of our 2.125% convertible senior subordinated notes due 2024 (“Notes”), the net share settlement provision requires that upon conversion we pay the principal return in cash, provided that we are in compliance with the financial covenants of our existing or future credit facilities. Assuming that we have enough cash to pay the principal return, we may be cash constrained as a result, and this could adversely affect our ability to service our debt, borrow money or conduct our operations. The conversion price of the Notes is $40.14 and the market price condition that triggers holders’ conversion rights is pegged to a stock price of $48.16. The conditions for conversion of the Notes have been met in each of the last four fiscal quarters; therefore, our Notes may currently be converted by the holders, at their option. For more information regarding our Notes, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Debt”. Restrictive covenants in our existing senior credit agreement may adversely affect us. We must comply with operating and financing restrictions in our senior secured credit agreement. We may also have similar restrictions with any future debt. These restrictions affect, and in many respects limit or prohibit our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • make restricted payments, including dividends or other distributions; • incur liens; • make investments, including joint venture investments; • sell assets; • repurchase capital stock; and • merge or consolidate with or into other companies or sell substantially all our assets. We are required to make mandatory payments on our existing senior secured credit agreement upon the occurrence of certain events, including the sale of assets and the issuance of debt or equity securities, in each case subject to certain limitations and conditions set forth in our existing senior secured credit agreement. Our senior secured credit agreement also requires us to achieve specified financial and operating results and satisfy set financial tests relating to our consolidated net worth and our leverage, fixed charge coverage and senior debt ratios. These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs or otherwise could restrict our activities. These restrictions could also adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. There are no unresolved staff comments outstanding with the Securities and Exchange Commission at this time. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 