Risk Factors The business of the Company involves a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from results projected in any forward-looking statement, or statements, made in this report. The Company’s securities are speculative and investment in the Company involves a high degree of risk. Prospective investors should consider the following: 5 1. The Company incurred a net loss of $1,815,217 for the year ended December 31, 2005 (2004:$1,759,088; 2003:$846,567). The Company has reported recurring losses since inception which have resulted in an accumulated deficit of $36,112,150 at December 31, 2005 (2004:$ 34,296,933). The Company has relied and will continue to rely on debt and/or equity financing and/or the sale of certain rights for consideration including cash. There is no certainty that additional debt and/or equity financing and/or arrangements for the sale of rights will be available on reasonable terms or at all. (Note: The financial data in this paragraph is presented in Canadian dollars.) The ability of the Company to continue as a going concern is dependent on the receipt of additional financing and /or proceeds on the sale of assets and ultimately its ability to generate sufficient cash from operations and financing sources to meet obligations as they come due. Any inability to obtain additional financing when needed and/or the loss of a material contract would have a material adverse effect on the Company, including possibly requiring the Company to significantly reduce or possibly cease its operations. 2. If the Company was unable to continue as a going concern, material adjustments would be required to the carrying value of assets and liabilities on the balance sheet and the balance sheet classifications used. 3. As with any product or service, competition from new sources may arise and existing competition may increase which may adversely affect the Company’s business plan. 4. The Company’s success will partially depend on its ability to obtain and enforce patents relating to the technology and to protect trade secrets. Further patents may not be available. In addition, third parties may challenge, narrow, invalidate or circumvent the Company’s patents. The patent position of medical device companies is generally highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions and has recently been the subject of much litigation. Neither the U.S. Patent Office nor the courts have a consistent policy regarding breadth of claims allowed or the degree of protection afforded under many device patents. In an effort to protect its unpatented proprietary technology, processes and know-how, the Company’s employees and consultants are required to execute confidentiality agreements. However, these agreements may not provide adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information. These agreements may be breached, and the Company may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, in some situations, these agreements may conflict, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom employees or consultants have previous 6 employment or consulting relationships. Also, others may independently develop substantial proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to the Company’s trade secrets. The Company intends to market its products in many different countries. In some of those, patents may not be held nor applied for. Different countries have different patent rules and the Company may sell in countries that do not honor patents and in which the risk of product copying would be greater. 5. The Company’s business exposes it to potential product liability risks, which are inherent in the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical and/or cosmetic products. While the Company will take precautions it deems to be appropriate to avoid product liability suits against it, there can be no assurance that it will be able to avoid significant product liability exposure. Product liability insurance is generally expensive to the extent it is available at all. The Company has not yet obtained product liability coverage. There can be no assurance that it will be able to obtain such coverage on acceptable terms, or that any insurance policy will provide adequate protection against potential claims. A successful product liability claim brought against the Company may exceed any insurance coverage secured by the Company, and could have a material adverse e ffect on the Company’s results or ability to continue marketing its products. 6. The Company is dependent on the management of certain key personnel. At this time, no key man insurance has been obtained. 7. Historically, consumers held negative perceptions for hair restoration products or processes. While the Company has developed a reasonable strategy for responding to this perception, there can be no assurance that widespread acceptance of the Company’s technology can be achieved. 8. Many of the countries in which the Company’s products are available face adverse economic and political conditions which make business development more difficult. 9. Due to the relatively low price of the Company’s shares, financings have caused and may continue to cause dilution. 10. The Company’s common stock is listed on the OTCBB. Investors may find it more difficult to dispose of or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of the Company’s common stock than would be the case if it were listed on a more recognized stock exchange or quotation service. In addition, trading in the Company’s common stock is currently subject to certain rules under the Exchange Act, which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a “penny stock”. Penny stocks are generally non-Nasdaq equity securities with a market price less than $5.00 per share. 7 The penny stock rules require broker-dealers selling penny stocks to make certain disclosures about such stocks to purchasers thereof, and impose sales practice restrictions on broker-dealers in certain penny stock transactions. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these rules may discourage them from effecting transactions in the Company’s common stock, which could limit the liquidity of the common stock and the ability of the Company’s stockholders to sell their stock in the secondary market. 11. Although the Company has commenced marketing its cosmetic product CosmeticTrichoGenesis in the United States the Company requires Food and Drug Administration approval to market its medical product ElectroTrichoGenesis in the United States. There can be no guarantee as to either if, or when, such approval may be obtained. 12. The life cycle of the products that the Company plans to develop is difficult to predict. Failure to gain timely market acceptance of its products would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to generate revenue, and would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. To successfully gain market acceptance, the Company must develop the ability to manufacture its products in sufficient quantities in compliance with regulatory requirements and at an acceptable cost. The Company has no long-term experience in manufacturing its products, and could experience difficulties in development or manufacturing that may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to market its product. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in scaling up manufacturi ng operations sufficient to produce its products in sufficient volume to generate market acceptance. 13. The Company has entered into agreements with distributors in various countries around the world. In most instances, these agreements are with entities which have few if any, assets. If these entities fail to perform, the Company’s only remedy may be to cancel the contract and seek a replacement distributor. Thus there are no assurances that the minimum number of units will be purchased under any agreement. 