Item 1A. Risk Factors Any of the risks described below, as well as any of the other risks described in this Form 10-K, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Recent economic events have adversely impacted our business and results of operations and may continue to do so. The restaurant industry is affected by macro economic factors, including changes in international, national, regional, and local economic conditions, employment levels and consumer spending patterns. The recent disruptions in the overall economy and financial markets and the related reduction in consumer confidence in the economy, have negatively affected guest traffic and results of operations throughout large segments of our industry, including our segment and our Morton’s and Italian restaurants, and are expected to continue to do so until economic conditions improve. Furthermore, the fine dining segment of the restaurant industry derives a significant portion of their revenues from business customers dining on an expense account and from leisure travelers, and, across all customer categories, from sales of higher margin wine and other alcoholic beverages. Historically, revenues from these customer and product segments have been adversely affected by unfavorable general economic conditions, and this has thus far been the case in the current economic downturn. Accordingly, recent economic events have adversely affected our results of operations. Continued weakness in or a further worsening of the economy, generally and in a number of our markets, could be harmful to our financial position and results of operations and could result in further non-cash impairment or other charges, cause us to reduce the number and frequency of new restaurant openings, slow our re-modeling of existing locations and/or adversely affect our ability to comply with the covenants under our senior revolving credit facility. Many parts of the world including the United States are currently in a recession and we believe that these weak general economic conditions could continue through 2009 and possibly beyond. The ongoing impacts of the housing crisis, rising unemployment and financial market weakness may further exacerbate current economic conditions. As the economy struggles, our guests may become more apprehensive about the economy and/or related factors, and may reduce their level of discretionary spending. A decrease in spending due to lower consumer discretionary income or consumer confidence in the economy could impact the frequency with which our guests choose to dine out or the amount they spend on meals while dining out, thereby decreasing our revenues and negatively affecting our operating results. Additionally, we believe there is a risk that if the current negative economic conditions persist for a long period of time and become more pervasive, consumers might make long-lasting changes to their discretionary spending behavior, including dining out less frequently on a more permanent basis. 14 Table of Contents Additionally, our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE and we are subject to certain NYSE continued listing standards. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to continue to satisfy the requirements of the NYSE’s continued listing standards. A delisting of our common stock could negatively affect the price and liquidity of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital in the future. The current industry downturn is negatively impacting our business with significant revenue declines in the fourth quarter of 2008 and an expected worsening of those declines through the first quarter of fiscal 2009. We had a net loss of $67.7 million in fiscal 2008, including a fourth quarter net loss of $8.1 million, which included after-tax non-cash impairment charges of $70.2 million and $9.5 million, respectively. Revenues declined for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 to $93.5 million from $100.5 million for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. Revenue trends for the first quarter of fiscal 2009 are expected to be significantly unfavorable when compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2008. Although we believe we will remain in compliance with our financial covenants through fiscal 2009, as a result of this poor business environment, management undertook amending our $115.0 million senior revolving credit facility to revise one of our financial covenants to make it less restrictive. On March 4, 2009, we entered into the fifth amendment to our senior revolving credit facility which, among other things, reduced the facility from $115.0 million to $75.0 million, with a further reduction to $70.0 million effective December 31, 2009. As of January 4, 2009 and February 23, 2009, we have $60.8 million and $63.3 million, respectively, outstanding under our senior revolving credit facility. The fifth amendment also reduces the annual maximum consolidated capital expenditures permitted and increases interest rates and certain fees payable under the senior revolving credit facility (see Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements). Based on our current projections, we anticipate that we will be in compliance with the financial covenants under the amended senior revolving credit facility throughout fiscal 2009. However, if the weak economic environment deteriorates further, or is prolonged, and our actions to respond to these conditions are not sufficient, we could fail to comply with one or more of the financial covenants. Changing discretionary spending patterns and general economic conditions could reduce our guest traffic and/or average revenue per guest, which would have an adverse effect on our revenues. Purchases at our restaurants are discretionary for our guests and, therefore, we are susceptible to economic slowdowns. In particular, our Morton’s steakhouses cater primarily to business clientele and local fine-dining guests. We believe that the vast majority of our weekday revenues and a substantial portion of our weekend revenues from these restaurants are derived from business people using expense accounts. Accordingly, we believe that our business is particularly susceptible to any factors that cause a reduction in expense account or other dining by our business clientele. We also believe that consumers generally are more willing to make discretionary purchases, including high-end restaurant meals, during periods in which favorable economic conditions prevail. Changes in spending habits as a result of the current economic slowdown and reduction in consumer confidence have reduced our guest traffic, which adversely affected our revenues. The future performance of the U.S. economy and global economies are uncertain and are directly affected by numerous global and national political and other factors that are beyond our control. These factors, which also affect discretionary consumer spending, include among other items, international, national, regional and local economic conditions, disposable consumer income, consumer confidence, terrorist attacks and the United States’ participation in military actions. We believe that these factors have adversely impacted our business and, should these conditions continue, worsen or be perceived to be worsening or should similar conditions occur in the future, we would expect them to continue to adversely impact our business. You should not rely on past increases in our average restaurant revenues or our comparable revenues as an indication of our future results of operations because they may fluctuate significantly. A number of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our average restaurant revenues and comparable revenues, including, among other factors: • our ability to execute our business strategy effectively; 15 Table of Contents • competition; • consumer trends; • introduction of new menu items; and • general international, national, regional and local economic conditions. Our average restaurant revenues and comparable revenues may not increase at rates achieved over the past several years. Changes in our average restaurant revenues and comparable revenues could cause our results of operations and the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. Our results of operations and revenues could be adversely affected by the inability to open new restaurants within anticipated time periods and budgets. There are a number of factors which may impact the amount of time and money required for the development and construction of new restaurants, including but not limited to, delays by the landlord, shortages of skilled labor, labor disputes, shortages of materials, delays with obtaining permits, local government regulations and weather interference. Our continued growth depends on our ability to open new restaurants and operate new restaurants profitably. A substantial majority of our historical growth has been due to opening new restaurants. When comparing fiscal 2008 to fiscal 2007, revenues due to the opening of nine new restaurants (four in fiscal 2008 and five in fiscal 2007) represented 6.2% growth compared to total growth in revenues of 0.2%. We experienced growth of 4.0%, 3.6% and 1.8% in our total revenues in fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively, attributable to the revenues from our new restaurants opened in fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, respectively, compared to total growth in revenues of 0.2%, 9.9% and 7.1% in fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively. Our ability to open new restaurants is dependent upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including but not limited to our ability to: • find quality locations; • reach acceptable agreements regarding the lease or purchase of locations; • comply with capital expenditure restrictions set forth in our senior revolving credit facility; • comply with applicable zoning, land use and environmental regulations; • raise, borrow or have available an adequate amount of money for construction and opening costs; • hire, train and retain the skilled management and other employees necessary to meet staffing needs in a timely manner; • obtain, for an acceptable cost, required permits and approvals; • successfully promote our new restaurants and compete in the markets in which our new restaurants are located; • efficiently manage the amount of time and money used to build and open each new restaurant; • address general economic conditions and conditions specific to the restaurant industry; and • open additional restaurants within anticipated time periods and budgets. We are reviewing additional sites for potential future Morton’s steakhouses. Typically, there has been a “ramp-up” period of one to two years before we expect a new Morton’s steakhouse to achieve our targeted level of performance. This “ramp-up” period, however, could be longer if the weak economic environment continues. The delay in achieving our targeted level of performance is due to higher operating costs caused by start-up and other temporary inefficiencies associated with opening new restaurants such as lack of market familiarity and acceptance when we enter new markets and unavailability of experienced staff. 16 Table of Contents We may not be able to attract enough guests to new restaurants because potential guests may be unfamiliar with our restaurants or the atmosphere or the menus of our restaurants might not appeal to them. As a result, the operating results generated at new restaurants may not equal the operating results generated at any of our existing restaurants. The restaurants may even operate at a loss, which could have a significant adverse effect on our overall operating results. In addition, opening a new restaurant in an existing market could reduce the revenue of our existing restaurants in that market. For these same reasons, many markets would not successfully support one of our restaurants. Furthermore, our ability to expand into non-U.S. markets also may be impacted by legal considerations such as restrictions on importing USDA prime aged beef from the United States. For example, we currently are not able to export some U.S. beef to our restaurants in Asia. Our existing senior personnel levels, restaurant management systems, financial controls, information systems and other systems and procedures may be inadequate to support our expansion, which could require us to incur substantial expenditures that could adversely affect our operating results. Additionally, on March 4, 2009, we entered into the fifth amendment to our senior revolving credit facility reducing the facility from $115.0 million to $75.0 million, with a further reduction to $70.0 million effective December 31, 2009. The amendment also reduces the annual maximum consolidated capital expenditures permitted. The reduction in borrowing capacity and permitted capital expenditures could adversely impact our ability to open new restaurants. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by the new lease for our new Italian restaurant, Trevi. During January 2006, we signed a new long-term lease with respect to our then-existing Bertolini’s restaurant located in Las Vegas, Nevada. In conjunction with the new lease, the Bertolini’s restaurant was closed on September 15, 2006 for renovation and replaced by Trevi, a new Italian restaurant that opened at this location on February 2, 2007. The rent under the new lease for Trevi is substantially higher than the rent under the previous lease. We may not be able to offset all or any part of this increase in rent through operational measures. The revenue and income from operations generated at the newly renovated restaurant may not equal the revenue and income from operations generated at the previous restaurant. Additionally, revenue and income from operations may be adversely affected due to a downturn in traffic in Las Vegas, including the convention business, if the weak economic environment continues. Revenues relating to our Italian restaurant in Las Vegas, Nevada increased $0.4 million when comparing fiscal 2008 (restaurant open 53 weeks) to fiscal 2007 (restaurant was open 47 weeks). Our restaurants may not be able to compete successfully with other restaurants and, as a result, we may not achieve our projected revenue and profitability targets. If our restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other restaurants in new and/or existing markets, we may not achieve our projected or historical revenue and profitability targets. Our industry is intensely competitive with respect to price, quality of service, restaurant location, ambiance of facilities and type and quality of food. We compete with national and regional restaurant chains and independently owned restaurants for guests, restaurant locations and qualified management and other restaurant staff. Compared to our business, some of our competitors may have greater financial and other resources, have been in business longer, have greater name recognition and be better established in the markets where our restaurants are located or are planned to be located. Our inability to compete successfully with other restaurants may force us to close one or more of our restaurants. We closed one Morton’s steakhouse in fiscal 2002 and two Morton’s steakhouses in fiscal 2003. We closed our Morton’s steakhouse in Kansas City during fiscal November 2008 and our Morton’s steakhouse in Charlotte (SouthPark) during fiscal December 2008 and may close other restaurants in the future. We closed our Bertolini’s restaurant in Indianapolis, Indiana during fiscal March 2008. Closing a restaurant would reduce our revenues, and could subject us to construction and other costs including but not limited to severance, legal costs 17 Table of Contents and the write-down of leasehold improvements, equipment, furniture and fixtures. In addition, we could remain liable for remaining future lease obligations. Closing a restaurant could also adversely affect our reputation, brand or competitive position. Our success depends in part upon the continued popularity of upscale steakhouses. Shifts in consumer preferences away from this type of concept could materially adversely affect our operating results. The restaurant industry is characterized by the continual introduction of new concepts and is subject to rapidly changing consumer preferences, tastes and eating and purchasing habits. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences, as well as other factors affecting the restaurant industry, including new market entrants and demographic changes. Continued expansion by our competitors in the upscale steakhouse segment of the restaurant industry could prevent us from realizing anticipated benefits from new restaurant growth or continued growth in existing restaurant revenues. Our competitors have opened many upscale steakhouses in recent years and a key element of our strategy is to open new steakhouses in both new and existing markets. If we overestimate demand for Morton’s steakhouses or underestimate the popularity of our competitors’ restaurants, we may be unable to realize anticipated revenues from new steakhouses. Similarly, if one or more of our competitors open new restaurants in any of our existing or anticipated markets, revenues in our steakhouses may be lower than we expect. Any unanticipated slowdown in demand in any of our restaurants due to industry growth or other factors could reduce our revenues and results of operations, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline substantially. Restaurant companies, including ours, have been the target of class action lawsuits and other proceedings alleging, among other things, violations of federal and state workplace and employment laws. Proceedings of this nature, if successful, could result in our payment of substantial damages. Our results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected by legal or governmental proceedings brought by or on behalf of our employees or guests. In recent years, a number of restaurant companies, including ours, have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. Similar lawsuits have been instituted against us from time to time and we are also a defendant in a number of pending lawsuits alleging violations of various state and federal wage and hour laws regarding employee meal deductions, the sharing of tips amongst certain employees and failure to pay for all hours worked. We may incur substantial damages and expenses resulting from lawsuits, which would increase the cost of operating our business and decrease the cash available for other uses, and may require us to make additional borrowings under our senior revolving credit facility. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” Litigation concerning food quality, health and other issues could impact our results of operations or require us to incur additional liabilities or cause guests to avoid our restaurants. Occasionally, our guests file complaints or lawsuits against us alleging that we are responsible for some illness or injury they suffered at or after a visit to our restaurants. We are also subject to a variety of other claims arising in the ordinary course of our business, including personal injury claims, contract claims and claims alleging violations of federal and state laws regarding workplace and employment, discrimination and similar matters. In addition, we could become subject to class action lawsuits related to these matters in the future. The restaurant industry has also been subject to a growing number of claims that the menus and actions of restaurant chains have led to the obesity of certain of their guests. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and hurt our performance. A judgment significantly in excess of our insurance coverage for any claims would materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Adverse publicity resulting from these claims may negatively impact sales at one or more of our restaurants. 18 Table of Contents Restaurants outside the United States expose us to uncertain conditions and other risks in international markets. We own and operate Morton’s steakhouses in Hong Kong, Macau, Singapore, Toronto and Vancouver. We also entered into a joint venture agreement to open a restaurant in Mexico in fiscal 2009. We face and will continue to face substantial risks associated with having foreign restaurants, including: economic or political instability, restrictions on or costs relating to the repatriation of foreign profits to the United States, including possible taxes or withholding obligations on any repatriations, and the imposition of trade restrictions. These risks could have a significant impact on our international restaurants. Also, our restaurants outside of the United States are subject to risks relating to appropriate compliance with legal and regulatory requirements in local jurisdictions, potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations, potentially higher incidence of fraud or corruption, and potentially adverse tax consequences. We are also exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our revenues, expenses, profits, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We have not used instruments to hedge certain foreign currency risks and are not protected against foreign currency fluctuations. As a result, our reported earnings may be affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Moreover, any favorable impacts to profit margins or financial results from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates are likely to be unsustainable over time. Taxing authorities may select to audit our international, federal, state and/or local tax returns from time to time, which may result in tax assessments and penalties that could have an adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to federal, state and local taxes in the U.S. as well as taxation by the taxing authorities in countries where we have international operations. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, if any taxing authority disagrees with the positions taken by the Company on its tax returns, we could have additional tax liabilities, including interest and penalties, which, if material, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Increases in the prices of, and/or reductions in the availability of, USDA prime aged beef and other food products could reduce our operating margins and our revenues. We purchase large quantities of beef, particularly USDA prime aged beef, which is subject to extreme price fluctuations due to seasonal shifts, climate conditions, industry demand and other factors. Our beef costs represented approximately 46%, 48% and 47% of our Morton’s food and beverage costs during fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively. The market for USDA prime aged beef is particularly volatile. For example, increased demand in late 2003 and in 2004 and the impact of diminished prime grading in the spring of 2007, resulted in shortages of USDA prime aged beef, requiring us to pay significantly higher prices for the USDA prime aged beef we purchased during these periods. Because Morton’s steakhouses feature USDA prime aged beef, we generally would expect to purchase USDA prime aged beef even if the price increased significantly. If prices for the types of beef we use in our restaurants increase in the future and we choose not to pass, or cannot pass, these increases on to our guests, our operating margins would decrease, perhaps materially. If certain kinds of beef become unavailable for us to purchase, our revenues could decrease as well. We may experience higher operating costs, including increases in supply prices and employee salaries, wages and benefits, which will adversely affect our operating results if we cannot increase menu prices to cover them. If we increase the compensation or benefits to our employees or pay higher prices for food items or other supplies, we will have an increase in our operating costs. If we are unable or unwilling to increase our menu prices or take other actions to offset increased operating costs, our operating results will suffer. Many factors affect the prices that we pay for the various food and other items that we use to operate our restaurants, including seasonal fluctuations, longer term cycles and other fluctuations in livestock markets, changes in weather or demand and inflation. Factors that may affect the salaries and benefits that we pay to our employees include local 19 Table of Contents unemployment rates and changes in minimum wage and employee benefits laws. Other factors that could cause our operating costs to increase include fuel prices, cost of gas and electricity, occupancy and related costs, maintenance expenditures and increases in other day-to-day expenses. Increases in the minimum wage could increase our labor costs. For example, under the Federal Minimum Wage Act of 2007, on July 24, 2008, the federal minimum wage increased from $5.85 per hour to $6.55 per hour and on July 24, 2009, the federal minimum wage will increase to $7.25 per hour. In addition, certain states in which we operate restaurants have adopted or are considering adopting minimum wage statutes that exceed the federal minimum wage. If we are unable to offset the increased labor costs by increasing our menu prices or by other means, this could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly due to the seasonality of our business and these fluctuations make it more difficult for us to predict accurately and address in a timely manner, factors that may have a negative impact on our business. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations that may vary greatly depending upon the region in which a particular restaurant is located. These fluctuations can make it more difficult for us to predict accurately and address in a timely manner factors that may have a negative impact on our business. Accordingly, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year. In addition, in the past we have incurred, and in the future are likely to incur, a net loss in the third quarter due to the seasonality of our business, with revenues generally being less in the third quarter primarily due to our reduced summer volume. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Seasonality.” Our results of operations are affected by a variety of factors, including severe weather conditions, and have fluctuated significantly in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Our results of operations have fluctuated significantly in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Our results of operations are affected by a variety of factors, including: • the timing of new restaurant openings, the cost of opening new restaurants and the relative proportion of new restaurants to mature restaurants; • changes in consumer preferences; • general economic conditions; • severe weather conditions; and • actions by our competitors. Some of our restaurants are located in regions that may be susceptible to severe weather conditions. As a result, adverse weather conditions in any of these areas could damage these restaurants, result in fewer guest visits to these restaurants and otherwise have a material adverse impact on our business. For example, our business was adversely impacted in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2005 due to hurricanes and severe weather in New Orleans and Florida. Therefore, you should not rely on our past results of operations as being indicative of the future. Negative factors or publicity surrounding our restaurants or the consumption of beef generally could adversely affect consumer taste, which could reduce sales in one or more of our restaurants and make our brand less valuable. Because our competitive strengths include the quality of our food and our restaurant facilities, we believe that adverse publicity relating to these factors or other similar concerns affects us more than it would restaurants that compete primarily on other factors. Any shifts in consumer preferences away from the kinds of food we 20 Table of Contents offer, particularly beef, whether because of dietary or other health concerns or otherwise, would make our restaurants less appealing and adversely affect our revenues. Adverse changes involving any of these factors could further reduce our guest traffic and/or impose practical limits on pricing, which could further reduce our revenues and operating income. Instances of food-borne illness and outbreaks of disease, as well as negative publicity relating thereto, could result in reduced demand for our menu offerings and reduced traffic in our restaurants and negatively impact our business. Instances of food-borne illness, including Bovine Spongiform Encephalopotathy, which is also known as BSE or mad cow disease, aphthous fever, which is also known as hoof and mouth disease, as well as hepatitis A, lysteria, salmonella and e-coli, whether or not traced to our restaurants, could reduce demand for our menu offerings. Outbreaks of disease, including severe acute respiratory syndrome, which is also known as SARS, Avian flu and other influenzas, could reduce traffic in our restaurants. Any of these events would negatively impact our business. In addition, any negative publicity relating to these and other health-related matters may affect consumers’ perceptions of our restaurants and the food that we offer, reduce guest visits to our restaurants and negatively impact demand for our menu offerings. Because our competitive strengths include the quality of our food, adverse publicity relating to these matters or other similar concerns affects us more than it would restaurants that compete primarily on other factors. We depend upon frequent deliveries of food and other supplies, in most cases from a limited number of suppliers, which subjects us to the possible risks of shortages, interruptions and price fluctuations. Our ability to maintain consistent quality throughout our restaurants depends in part upon our ability to acquire fresh food products, including USDA prime aged beef, and related items from reliable sources in accordance with our specifications and in sufficient quantities. We have relatively short-term contracts with a limited number of suppliers for the distribution of most meat and some food and other supplies for our restaurants. Our dependence on a small number of suppliers, as well as the limited number of available suppliers of USDA prime aged beef, subject us to the possible risks of shortages, interruptions and price fluctuations. If any of these suppliers do not perform adequately or otherwise fail to distribute products or supplies to our restaurants, we may be unable to replace the suppliers in a short period of time on acceptable terms. Our inability to replace our suppliers in a short period of time on acceptable terms could increase our costs and could cause shortages at our restaurants of food and other items that may cause us to remove certain items from a restaurant’s menu or temporarily close a restaurant. If we temporarily close a restaurant or remove popular items from a restaurant’s menu, that restaurant may experience a significant reduction in revenue during the time affected by the shortage and thereafter, as our guests may change their dining habits as a result. We have no long-term contracts for any food items used in our restaurants. We currently do not engage in futures contracts or other financial risk management strategies with respect to potential price fluctuations in the cost of food and other supplies, which we purchase at prevailing market or contracted prices. We may incur additional costs or liabilities and lose revenues impacting operating results as a result of litigation and government regulation affecting the operation of our restaurants. Our business is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign government regulation, including regulations related to the preparation and sale of food, the sale of alcoholic beverages, the sale and use of tobacco, zoning and building codes, land use and employee, health, sanitation and safety matters. There is pending and new legislation by certain states and other municipalities relating to nutritional content, nutritional labeling and menu labeling regulations. These laws and regulations have required and will continue to require certain of our restaurant locations to include specified nutritional information on our menu and other materials presented to guests or to otherwise post such information in the restaurants. The requirements to post nutritional information on our menus or in our restaurants could reduce demand for our menu offerings, 21 Table of Contents reduce guest traffic and/or reduce average revenue per guest, which would have an adverse effect on our revenue. In addition, we may incur expenses as a result of our compliance with such laws and regulations including costs relating to menu printing. Compliance may also increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings. Typically our restaurants’ licenses to sell alcoholic beverages must be renewed annually and may be suspended or revoked at any time for cause. Alcoholic beverage control regulations relate to various aspects of daily operations of our restaurants, including the minimum age of patrons and employees, hours of operation, advertising, wholesale purchasing and inventory control, handling and storage. The failure of any of our restaurants to timely obtain and maintain liquor or other licenses, permits or approvals required to serve alcoholic beverages or food could delay or prevent the opening of, or adversely impact the viability of, and any negative publicity related thereto could have an adverse effect on, the restaurant and we could lose significant revenue. Our restaurants are subject, in each state and in some of the foreign countries in which the Company operates, to “dram shop” laws or similar laws, which generally allow a person to sue us if that person was injured by a legally intoxicated person who was wrongfully served alcoholic beverages at one of our restaurants. A judgment against us under “dram shop” laws or similar laws could exceed our liability insurance coverage policy limits and could result in substantial liability for us and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our inability to continue to obtain such insurance coverage at reasonable costs also could have a material adverse effect on us. To the extent that governmental regulations impose material additional obligations on our suppliers, including, without limitation, regulations relating to the inspection or preparation of meat, food and other products used in our business, product availability could be limited and the prices that our suppliers charge us could increase. We may not be able to offset these costs through increased menu prices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If any of our restaurants were unable to serve particular food products, even for a short period of time, we could experience a reduction in our overall revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, further government regulation including laws restricting smoking in restaurants and bars may reduce guest traffic and adversely impact our sales. One or more of our restaurants could be subject to litigation and governmental fine, censure or closure in connection with issues relating to our food and/or our facilities. The food products that we serve, including meat and seafood, are susceptible to food borne illnesses. We and other restaurant companies have been named as defendants in actions seeking damages as a result of food borne illnesses and actions brought under state laws regarding notices with respect to chemicals contained in food products and regarding excess moisture in the business premises. To date, none of these matters has had a material adverse effect on our business, but that may not continue to be the case in the future. The costs of operating our restaurants may increase if there are changes in laws governing minimum hourly wages, working conditions, overtime and tip credits, health care, workers’ compensation insurance rates, unemployment tax rates, sales taxes or other laws and regulations such as those governing access for the disabled, including the Americans with Disabilities Act. If any of these costs were to increase and we were unable to offset the increase by increasing our menu prices or by other means, this could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. As an example, because we have a significant number of restaurants located in various states, including eleven in California, eight in Florida and seven in Illinois as of February 23, 2009, regulatory changes in these states could have a disproportionate impact on our business. See “Item 1. Business—Government Regulation” for a discussion of certain regulations affecting our business. 22 Table of Contents The failure to enforce and maintain our intellectual property rights could enable others to use names confusingly similar to Morton’s, Morton’s of Chicago, Morton’s The Steakhouse and other names and marks used by our restaurants, which could adversely affect the value of the Morton’s brand. We have registered the marks Morton’s, Morton’s of Chicago, Morton’s The Steakhouse, Bertolini’s, Trevi and certain other marks used by our restaurants as trade names, trademarks or service marks in various states and/or the United States Patent and Trademark Office and in certain foreign countries. The success of our business depends on our continued ability to use our existing trade names, trademarks and service marks in order to increase our brand awareness. In that regard, we believe that our trade names, trademarks and service marks are valuable assets that are critical to our success. The unauthorized use or other misappropriation of our trade names, trademarks or service marks could diminish the value of our brands and restaurant concepts and may cause a decline in our revenue. We are aware of marks similar to those of our restaurants used and/or registered by third parties in certain limited geographical areas. We occupy most of our restaurants under long-term non-cancelable leases and we may be unable to renew leases at the end of their terms. Most of our restaurants are located in leased premises. Many of our current leases are non-cancelable and typically have terms ranging from 10 to 15 years with renewal options for terms ranging from five to 15 years. We believe that leases that we enter into in the future likely will also be long-term and non-cancelable and have similar renewal options. If we close a restaurant, we generally remain committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease, which would include, among other things, payment of the base rent for the balance of the lease term. Our obligation to continue making rental payments in respect of leases for closed restaurants could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Alternatively, at the end of the lease term and any renewal period for a restaurant, we may be unable to renew the lease without substantial additional cost, if at all. If we are unable to renew our restaurant leases, we may close or relocate a restaurant, which could subject us to construction and other costs and risks, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. For example, closing a restaurant, even during the time of relocation, will reduce the sales that the restaurant would have contributed to our revenues. Additionally, the revenue and profit, if any, generated at a relocated restaurant may not equal the revenue and profit generated at the existing restaurant. Fixed rental expenses account for a significant portion of our operating expenses, which increases our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and could limit our operating and financing flexibility. Rent expense incurred under our operating leases account for a significant portion of our operating expenses. For example, total rental expenses, including additional rental payments based on sales at some of our restaurants, under operating leases were approximately $27.5 million (7.8% of our revenues), $24.8 million (7.0% of our revenues) and $23.5 million (7.3% of our revenues) for fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively. In addition, as of January 4, 2009, we were a party to operating leases requiring future minimum lease payments aggregating approximately $141.0 million through fiscal 2013 and approximately $196.6 million thereafter. We expect that new restaurants we open will typically be leased by us under operating leases. Our substantial operating lease obligations could have significant negative consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; • requiring a substantial portion of our available cash to be applied to pay our rental obligations, thus reducing cash available for other purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business or the industry in which we compete; and • placing us at a disadvantage with respect to some of our competitors. 23 Table of Contents We depend on cash flow from operations to pay our lease obligations and to fulfill our other cash needs. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities and sufficient funds are not otherwise available to us from borrowings under bank loans or from other sources, we may not be able to service our operating lease obligations, grow our business, respond to competitive challenges or fund our other liquidity and capital needs, which would have a material adverse affect on us. In certain circumstances we have sought to renegotiate the terms of our leases. Our actions could result in the landlords claiming a default by us, terminating our leases and enforcing their rights as landlord under the terms of our leases. Any of these actions could result in litigation, delays and additional costs, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our level of indebtedness may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, limit our operational and financing flexibility and negatively impact our business. Our senior revolving credit facility, and other debt instruments we may enter into in the future, may have important consequences to the Company, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired; • we may use a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to pay interest on our indebtedness, which will reduce the funds available to us for operations and other purposes; • our level of indebtedness could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have proportionately less debt; • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate may be limited; and • our level of indebtedness may make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. We expect that we will depend primarily upon our operations to provide funds to pay our expenses and to pay any amounts due under our senior revolving credit facility and any other indebtedness we may incur. Our ability to make these payments depends on our future performance, which will be affected by various financial, business, economic and other factors, many of which we cannot control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future and our currently anticipated growth in revenues and cash flows may not be realized, either or both of which could result in our being unable to repay indebtedness, including our senior revolving credit facility, or to fund other liquidity needs. If we do not have enough money, we may be required to refinance all or part of our then-existing debt, sell assets or borrow more money. We may not be able to accomplish any of these alternatives on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements, including our senior revolving credit facility, may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. Cash we use to repurchase our common stock, as discussed in “Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities,” will not be available for other purposes, including repayment of debt. Utilizing borrowed funds in order to implement a stock repurchase program may result in important consequences to us similar to those mentioned in regard to our senior revolving credit facility, including liquidity risk that could impair our ability to fund operations, obtain debt in the future and affect our financial condition. The terms of our senior revolving credit facility impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us that may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. In February 2006, we entered into a senior revolving credit facility with a syndicate of financial institutions including affiliates of certain of the underwriters in the IPO. We have subsequently amended our senior revolving credit facility. Our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Morton’s of Chicago, Inc., is the borrower under 24 Table of Contents the facility. We and most of our other domestic subsidiaries are guarantors of the facility. The credit agreement is secured by substantially all of our present and future domestic subsidiaries’ assets and contains a number of significant restrictions and covenants that generally limit our ability to, among other things: • pay dividends or purchase stock or make other restricted payments to our stockholders; • incur additional indebtedness; • borrow money or issue guarantees; • make investments; • use assets as security in other transactions; • sell assets or merge with or into other companies; • make capital expenditures; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • sell stock in our subsidiaries; and • create or permit restrictions on our subsidiaries’ ability to make payments to us. The credit agreement limits our ability to engage in these types of transactions, even if we believe that a specific transaction would contribute to our future growth or improve our operating results. The credit agreement requires us to achieve specified financial and operating results and maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events outside of our control. A breach of any of these provisions or our inability to comply with required financial ratios in our senior revolving credit facility could result in a default under the credit facility. If that were to occur, the lenders have the right to declare all borrowings to be immediately due and payable. In addition, the lenders have the right to declare all borrowings to be immediately due and payable upon the occurrence of certain change of control events relating to us. If we are unable to repay all borrowings when due, whether at maturity or if declared due and payable following a default or change of control event, the lenders have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to secure the indebtedness. If we breach these covenants or fail to comply with the terms of our senior revolving credit facility, or a change of control event occurs, lenders may declare all borrowings to be immediately due and payable, and may sell the assets pledged as collateral in order to repay those borrowings, which would have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and, to the extent that our assets are sold to repay borrowings, our restaurant business. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Debt and Other Obligations—Senior Revolving Credit Facility” for further information regarding our senior revolving credit facility. In addition, we are exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates because our senior revolving credit facility carries a floating rate of interest. Accordingly, our results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Assuming a 10% increase in the interest rate on our $75.0 million senior revolving credit facility, if the entire amount available under the facility were drawn, interest expense would increase by approximately $0.3 million over the course of 12 months. We could face labor shortages that could slow our growth and adversely impact our ability to operate our restaurants. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including restaurant managers, kitchen staff and servers, necessary to keep pace with our anticipated expansion schedule and meet the needs of our existing restaurants. A sufficient number of qualified individuals of the requisite caliber to fill these positions may be in short supply in some areas. Any future inability to recruit and retain qualified individuals may delay the planned openings of new restaurants and could adversely impact our existing restaurants. Any such delays, any material increases in employee turnover rates in existing 25 Table of Contents restaurants or any widespread employee dissatisfaction could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages, which could result in higher labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We depend on the services of key executives, the loss of whom could materially harm our business and our strategic direction if we were unable to replace them with executives of equal experience and capabilities. Some of our senior executives, such as Thomas J. Baldwin, our Chief Executive Officer, are important to our success because they have been instrumental in setting our strategic direction, operating our business, identifying, recruiting and training key personnel, identifying expansion opportunities and arranging necessary financing. Losing the services of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business until a suitable replacement could be found. Although we have an employment agreement with our Chief Executive Officer, we could not prevent him from terminating his employment with us. Other executives are not bound by employment agreements with us. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our executives. Since our IPO in February 2006, we have incurred, and we expect to continue to incur substantial expenses to meet our reporting obligations as a public company. In addition, failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in our financial reporting and could harm our ability to manage our expenses. Reporting obligations as a public company and our anticipated growth have placed and are likely to continue to place a considerable strain on our financial and management systems, processes and controls, as well as on our personnel. In addition, as a public company we are required to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 so that our management can certify as to the effectiveness of our internal controls and our independent registered public accounting firm can render an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting by the time this annual report for fiscal 2008 is due and thereafter, which requires us to document and test the design and operating effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. If our management is unable to certify the effectiveness of our internal controls or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in our internal controls are identified, or if we fail to comply with other obligations imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or NYSE rules relating to corporate governance matters, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our stock price. In addition, if we do not maintain adequate financial and management personnel, processes and controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis, which could cause a decline in our stock price and adversely affect our ability to raise capital. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed under the Exchange Act, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified by the SEC’s rules and forms. In connection with the preparation of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2008, an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal controls and procedures over financial reporting (as defined under the SEC rules) was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. The evaluation was carried out using criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on this assessment, management believes that, as of January 4, 2009, the Company’s internal controls and procedures over financial reporting were effective based on those criteria. No change in the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting occurred during the fiscal quarter ended January 4, 2009 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting. However, there can be no assurance that we will not discover any material weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal controls, including our internal controls over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures, which could subject us to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence and could have a material adverse effect on our business and our stock price. 26 Table of Contents Our current insurance policies may not provide adequate levels of coverage against all claims and we may incur losses that are not covered by our insurance. We believe we maintain insurance coverage that is customary for businesses of our size and type. However, there are types of losses we may incur that cannot be insured against or that we believe are not commercially reasonable to insure. For example, we believe that insurance covering liability for violations of wage and hour laws is generally not available. These losses, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Additionally, health insurance costs in general have risen significantly over the past few years and are expected to continue to increase in 2009. These increases, as well as potential state legislation requirements for employers to provide health insurance to employees, could have a negative impact on our profitability if we are not able to offset the effect of such increases with plan modifications and cost control measures, or by continuing to improve our operating efficiencies. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 