ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We make forward-looking statements in some of our filings with the SEC and in other oral or written communications, such as our quarterly investor conference calls and earnings announcements. Our business is subject to a variety of risks and the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements we may make. Set forth below are the most significant risk factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements. Please also see the “Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosures” in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, which is incorporated into this Item 1A by reference. Economic conditions may cause a decline in business and consumer spending which could adversely affect our financial performance. Our business is impacted by general economic conditions and their effect on consumer confidence and consumer spending. These economic factors include recessionary cycles, interest rates, currency exchange rates, economic growth, wage rates, unemployment levels, energy prices, availability of consumer credit and consumer confidence, among others. The current economic conditions may continue to negatively affect consumer purchases of our merchandise and adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity and continued growth. In addition, economic conditions could negatively impact the Company’s retail landlords and their ability to maintain their shopping centers in a first-class condition and otherwise perform their obligations, which in turn could negatively impact our sales. 7 Table of Contents All of our stores are located within the United States, making us highly susceptible to deteriorations in U.S. macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence. All of our stores are located within the United States, making our results highly dependent on U.S. consumer confidence and the health of the U.S. economy. In addition, a significant portion of our total sales is derived from stores located in eight states: Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, resulting in further dependence on local economic conditions in these states. Deterioration in macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence could negatively impact our business in many ways, including: · slowing sales growth or reduction in overall sales; and · reducing gross margins. It is difficult to predict how long the current economic conditions will continue and what long-term impact, if any, they will have on our business. In the short-term, however, these conditions have negatively affected our results of operations. If we are unable to anticipate or react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner, our sales, merchandise margins and operating income could decline. Our success largely depends on our ability to consistently and timely gauge and respond to fashion trends and provide merchandise that satisfies changing fashion tastes and customer demands that translates into appropriate, saleable product offerings for each of our two brands. Customer tastes and fashion trends change rapidly. Any missteps may affect merchandise desirability and inventory levels, since we enter into agreements to manufacture and purchase our merchandise well in advance of the selling season for our merchandise. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately in a timely manner to changes in fashion trends could lead to lower sales, missed opportunities and excess inventories. This in turn could lead to more frequent and larger markdowns, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. Merchandise misjudgments could also negatively impact our image with our customers and result in diminished brand loyalty. Our ability to manage inventory levels and ability to predict or respond to customer demand may impact our results. The long lead time usually required for our merchandise makes customer demand difficult to predict and responding to changes quickly a challenge. Our financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to manage inventory levels and respond to short-term shifts in customer demand patterns. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in excessive markdowns and, therefore, lower than planned margins. On the other hand, if we underestimate demand for our merchandise we may experience inventory shortages resulting in missed sales and lost revenues. Either of these events could harm our operating results and brand image. The absence of or a further reduction in mall traffic could significantly reduce our sales and leave us with unsold inventory. A significant portion of our current stores are located in shopping malls. Sales at these stores are derived in considerable part from the volume of traffic in those malls. Sales volume has been adversely affected by the reduction in traffic at malls due to economic conditions, the closing of anchor department stores and competition from non-mall retailers, Internet retailers and other malls where we do not have stores, and the closing of other stores in the malls in which our stores are located. A decline in the desirability of the shopping environment of a particular mall, or in the popularity of mall shopping generally among our customers, could limit the number of customers visiting many of our stores. This could decrease our level of sales and leave us with excess inventory. In such circumstances, we may respond by increasing markdowns or initiating marketing promotions to reduce excess inventory, which could further decrease our merchandise margins and operating income. We operate in a highly competitive retail industry. The size and resources of some of our competitors may allow them to compete more effectively than we can, which could result in loss of market share. The women’s specialty retail industry is highly competitive. We compete primarily with women’s apparel retailers, department stores, catalog retailers and internet businesses that also engage in the retail sale of women’s apparel. We believe that the principal bases upon which we compete are the quality, design and price of our merchandise, the quality of our customer service, our visual merchandise presentation and store locations. Many of our competitors are companies with greater financial, marketing and other resources. They may be able to adapt to changes in customer preferences more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their 8 Table of Contents products, generate greater national brand recognition and/or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. In addition, an increased level of promotions or discounted sales by our competitors may adversely affect response rates to our merchandise or to our own level of promotions or sales. As a result, we may lose market share or experience a reduction in store traffic, which could reduce our revenues, merchandise margins and operating income. Fluctuations in our level of same-store sales could adversely affect our earnings growth. Our results of operations for our individual stores have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to fluctuate in the future. Since the beginning of fiscal year 2006 through fiscal year 2010, our quarterly comparable store sales have ranged from an increase of 9% to a decrease of 24%. A variety of factors has historically affected, and will continue to affect, our comparable stores sales results and profit margins, including: · fashion trends and customer preferences; · changes in our merchandise mix; · mall traffic; · new store openings; · calendar shifts of holiday or seasonal periods; · the effectiveness of our inventory management; · the timing of promotional events; · weather conditions; · changes in general economic conditions and consumer spending patterns; and · actions of competitors or mall anchor tenants. There is no assurance that we will achieve positive levels of same-store sales and earnings growth in the future, and any decline in our future growth or performance could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, as well as result in further impairment in our long-lived (i.e., store) assets. Our net sales and operating income fluctuate on a seasonal basis and decreases in sales or margins during our peak seasons could have a disproportionate effect on our overall financial condition and results of operations. Our business experiences seasonal fluctuations in net sales and operating income, with a significant portion of our operating income typically realized during the first and third fiscal quarters (spring and fall selling seasons). Any decrease in sales or margins particularly during these periods could have a disproportionate effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations could deteriorate if we fail to attract, develop and retain qualified employees. Our success depends to a significant extent both on the continued services of our current executive and senior management team, as well as our ability to attract, hire, motivate and retain qualified employees, including store personnel. The turnover rate in the retail industry’s store operations is high, and qualified individuals of the requisite caliber and number needed to fill open positions may be in short supply in some geographic areas. Significant increases in employee turnover rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe we have benefited substantially from the leadership and strategic guidance of our key executives and members of our creative team, who are primarily responsible for developing our merchandise and reinforcing our brand identity. The loss, for any reason, of the services of any of these key individuals could delay or adversely affect the implementation of our strategies and tactics or the merchandise we offer. Extreme and/or unseasonable weather conditions could have a disproportionately large effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and we could be forced to mark down inventory. Extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our stores are located could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, heavy snowfall or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period might make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores. Our business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could render a portion of our inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions in the affected area of the United States. Any such prolonged unseasonable weather conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Our ability to manage Selling, General and Administrative (“SG&A”) expenses and capital expenditures may impact our operating results. In order to maintain or improve our operating margins, we need to successfully manage our operating costs. Our inability to successfully manage labor costs, occupancy costs or other operating costs, or our inability to take advantage of opportunities to reduce operating costs or to manage capital expenditures, could adversely affect our operating margins and our results of operations. We are highly dependent on a few suppliers who primarily manufacture overseas and our reliance on foreign sources of production poses various risks. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend on independent third parties to manufacture our merchandise. We cannot be certain that we will not experience operational difficulties with our manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with merchandise specifications, insufficient quality control and failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. In fiscal 2010, approximately 12% of our merchandise was directly imported from foreign factories and our ten largest suppliers accounted for approximately 74% of the merchandise we purchased. Substantially all of our directly imported merchandise is manufactured in Southeast Asia. The majority of these goods are produced in China, Indonesia, and Cambodia. An adverse change in the status of our relationship with our largest suppliers or any event causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing or imports from Asia or elsewhere, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, could materially harm our operations. We have no long-term merchandise supply contracts, and we compete with other companies for production facilities. As we purchase a significant portion of our merchandise that is manufactured overseas, we are subject to the various risks of doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, such as: · significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to port security considerations; · imposition of anti-dumping or countervailing duties in response to an investigation as to whether a particular product being sold in the United States at less than fair value may cause (or threaten to cause) material injury to the relevant domestic industry; · financial or political instability in any of the countries in which our merchandise is manufactured; · fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies; · potential recalls for any merchandise that does not meet our quality standards; · disruption of imports by labor disputes and local business practices; · political or military conflict involving the United States, which could cause a delay in the transportation of the Company’s products and an increase in transportation costs; · heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods or could result in decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales and damage to the reputation of our brand; · natural disasters, disease epidemics and health related concerns, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; and · the migration and development of manufacturers, which can affect where our products are or will be produced. Any of the foregoing factors, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot predict whether any of the foreign countries in which our merchandise is manufactured, or in which our merchandise may be manufactured in the future, will be subject to import restrictions by the U.S. government. Any sudden disruption of manufacturing or imposition of trade restrictions, such as increased tariffs or more restrictive quotas on apparel or other items we sell, could affect the import of such merchandise and could increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. 10 Table of Contents The raw materials used to manufacture our products and our distribution and labor costs are subject to availability constraints and price volatility, which could result in increased costs. The raw materials used to manufacture our merchandise are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by high demand for cotton, petroleum-based synthetic and other fabrics, weather conditions, supply conditions, government regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. In addition, our transportation and labor costs are subject to price volatility caused by the price of oil, supply of labor, governmental regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. Increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials used to manufacture our merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales or our ability to meet our customers’ needs. We may not be able to pass all or a material portion of such higher raw material costs on to our customers, which could negatively impact our profitability. Our manufacturers may be unable to manufacture and deliver products in a timely manner or meet our quality standards, which could result in lost sales, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns. We purchase apparel and accessories from importers and directly from third-party manufacturers. Similar to most other specialty retailers, we have short selling seasons for much of our inventory. Factors outside of our control, such as manufacturing or shipping delays or quality problems, could disrupt merchandise deliveries and result in lost sales, product recalls, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns. Our inability to maintain the value of our brands and our trademarks may adversely affect our business and financial performance. Our success depends in part on the value of our Christopher & Banks and C.J. Banks brands. The Christopher & Banks and C.J. Banks names are integral to our business, as well as to the implementation of our strategies for expanding our business. Maintaining, promoting and positioning our brands will depend largely on the success of our design, merchandising and marketing efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high quality customer experience. Our brands could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve these objectives for one or both of these brands and our public image and reputation could be tarnished by negative publicity. Any of these events could negatively impact sales. We also believe that our “christopher & banks” and “cj banks” trademarks are important to our success. Even though we register and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights, there is no assurance that our actions will protect us from the prior registration of trademarks by others or prevent others from infringing our trademarks and proprietary rights or seeking to block sales of our products as infringements of their trademarks and proprietary rights. If we cannot adequately protect our marks or prevent infringement of them, our business and financial performance could suffer. In addition, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property rights or in marks that are similar to ours and we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In some cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar marks. Failure to protect our trademarks could result in a material adverse effect on our business. We face challenges to grow our business and to manage our growth. Our long-term growth will largely depend on our ability to open and operate new stores, and the availability of suitable store locations on acceptable terms. However, due to the deterioration in the macroeconomic environment in fiscal year 2009 and the continued economic uncertainty, we reduced our capital expenditures for fiscal year 2010. This has enabled the Company to position itself for growth and, as the economy recovers, we intend to open more new stores, while relocating and remodeling a portion of our existing store base each year. The success of this strategy is dependent upon, among other things, the identification of suitable markets and sites for store locations, the negotiation of acceptable lease terms, the hiring, training and retention of competent sales personnel, and the effective management of inventory to meet on a timely basis the needs of new and existing stores. Our failure to open new stores on a timely basis, obtain acceptance in markets in which we currently have limited or no presence, attract qualified management and personnel or appropriately adjust operational systems and procedures would have an adverse affect on our growth prospects. If we fail to successfully implement these strategies, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Disruptions in our information systems could adversely affect our sales and profitability. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information systems. In particular, we rely on our information systems to effectively manage product development, merchandising, sourcing, customer service, supply chain, finance and marketing systems. We also generate sales through the operations of our Christopher & Banks and C.J. Banks branded websites by a third party service provider. The failure of our internal information systems and our third party website service provider to perform as designed could disrupt our business and harm sales and profitability. We depend significantly on a single operations and distribution facility. All of our administrative and distribution operations are housed in a single facility. A significant interruption in the operation of this facility due to natural disasters, accidents or other events could reduce our ability to receive and provide merchandise to our stores, as well as reduce our ability to administer and oversee our business, which could reduce our sales and results of operations. The success of our stores depends on their timely receipt of merchandise from our distribution center. A single independent third party transportation company delivers the vast majority of our merchandise to our stores. Disruptions in the delivery of merchandise or work stoppages by employees of this third party could delay the timely receipt of merchandise, which could result in lost sales, a loss of loyalty to our brands and the late receipt of inventory when it is no longer seasonally appropriate. Timely receipt of merchandise by our stores may also be affected by factors such as inclement weather, natural disasters, accidents, system failures and acts of terrorism. If our use of our facility or distribution center were interrupted, it would disrupt business operations and could adversely affect our operations and our earnings. There are risks associated with our e-Commerce sales. We sell merchandise over the Internet through our web sites, www.christopherandbanks.com and www.cjbanks.com. Our e-Commerce operations are subject to numerous risks, including: · reliance on a single fulfillment center; · rapid technological change and the implementation of new systems or platforms; · diversion of sales from our stores; · liability for online content; · violations of state or federal privacy laws, including those relating to online privacy; · credit card fraud; · risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate our web sites and their related support systems, including computer viruses; · telecommunications failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions; and · timely delivery of our merchandise to our customers by third parties. There is also no assurance that our e-Commerce operations will meet our sales and profitability plans and the failure to do so would negatively impact our revenues and earnings. If third parties who manage some aspects of our business do not adequately perform their functions, we might experience disruptions in our business, resulting in decreased profits or losses. We use a third-party for our e-Commerce operations, including order management, order fulfillment, customer care, and channel management services. A failure by the third party to adequately manage our e-Commerce operations may negatively impact our profitability. We rely on third parties to inspect the factories where our products are made for vendor code of conduct and labor standards compliance. Any failure by this third party to adequately perform its functions may disrupt our operations and negatively impact our reputation and profitability. We may rely on a third party for the implementation and/or management of certain aspects of our information technology infrastructure. Failure by any of these third parties to implement and/or manage our information technology infrastructure effectively could disrupt its operations and negatively impact our profitability. 12 Table of Contents Effects of war, terrorism or other catastrophes could adversely impact our business or operations. Threat of terrorist attacks or actual terrorist events in the United States or worldwide could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, disrupt the production, shipment or receipt of our merchandise or lead to lower customer traffic in regional shopping centers. Natural disasters, pandemics or other significant health issues could also impact our ability to open and run our stores in affected areas. Lower customer traffic due to security concerns, war or the threat of war, natural disasters, pandemics or other health concerns could result in reduced customer traffic and decreased sales that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements could damage our reputation, financial condition and market price of our stock. Our policies, procedures and internal controls are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange, as well as applicable employment laws. Any changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations or the enactment of any new legislation, in response to current economic conditions or otherwise, may increase the complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations may result in damage to our reputation, financial condition and market price of our stock. Our business could suffer if one of the manufacturers of the goods that we sell fails to use acceptable labor practices. We require manufacturers of the goods that we sell to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our staff and the staff of our third party inspection service company periodically visit the operations of our independent manufacturers to determine compliance with our vendor code of conduct. However, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor or business practices. The violation of labor or other laws by an independent manufacturer used by us, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer’s labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States, could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt the shipment of products to us, damage our reputation or result in cancelled contracts or orders. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and consequently our results of operations. Funds associated with the Auction Rate Securities held by us as short-term investments may not be liquid or readily available. Our investment in securities currently consists partially of Auction Rate Securities which are not currently liquid or readily available to convert to cash. We do not believe that the current liquidity issues related to our auction rate securities will impact our ability to fund our ongoing business operations. However, if the global credit crisis persists or intensifies, it is possible that we will be required to further adjust the fair value of our auction rate securities. Our marketing efforts rely upon the effective use of customer information. Restrictions on the availability or use of customer information or unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential information could adversely affect our marketing programs or expose us to litigation, which could disrupt our operations and harm our business. As part of our normal course of business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential customer information. Any limitations imposed on the use of such consumer data, whether imposed by federal or state governments or business partners, could have an adverse effect on our future marketing activity. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of our third party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or similar events. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, whether by us or our vendors, could severely damage our reputation, expose us to risks of litigation and liability, disrupt our operations and harm our business. 13 Table of Contents Operating losses in tax jurisdictions with deferred tax assets could hinder our ability to continue to carry the deferred tax assets, which would result in a valuation allowance negatively impacting our consolidated results and net worth. Deferred income tax assets represent potential future income tax benefits. Realization of these assets is ultimately dependent upon future taxable income. No valuation allowance has been provided for deferred tax assets because management believes realization of the full amount of net deferred tax assets is more likely than not. While we have a history of profits, our profitability has declined over the last three years and we recorded a net loss in fiscal 2009 and our financial results were near breakeven in fiscal 2010. Therefore, achievement of profitability in fiscal 2011 will be a significant factor in determining our continuing ability to carry these deferred tax assets. Our accounting for deferred taxes represents our best estimate of future events. If future results from our operations are less than projected, a valuation allowance may be required to reduce deferred tax assets, which could have a material impact on our results of operations in the period in which it is recorded. Significant negative events, including losses in future years, would make it reasonably possible that valuation allowances against deferred tax assets would be required in future periods. Government healthcare requirements could adversely affect our profits. The recently adopted healthcare legislation may require, among other things, employers to provide healthcare to all employees, to pay either a portion of healthcare premiums or a flat payroll tax in lieu of premiums, or to pay a fee for each employee not offered health care. While we are still evaluating the impact of the recently adopted healthcare legislation, this legislation as well as any future changes in healthcare legislation could increase our expenses and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The bankruptcy or significant deterioration of large commercial and retail landlords could have a material adverse effect on our sales and operating results. The current economic downturn has had a significant negative impact on the commercial real estate sector, including large commercial and retail landlords, such as one of our major national landlords, General Growth Properties, Inc. (“GGP”) and many of its affiliates (collectively “GGP Debtors”), which filed petitions for reorganization relief under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. If the current macro-economic conditions continue or deteriorate further, additional commercial landlords may be similarly impacted which in turn could materially adversely impact our sales and operating results. The inability of our suppliers to obtain credit may cause us to experience delays in obtaining merchandise. We rely on independent suppliers for producing our merchandise. Many of these suppliers rely on working capital financing to finance their operations. Although the credit market has improved since last year, lenders have still maintained tightened credit standards and terms. To the extent any of our suppliers are unable to obtain adequate credit or their borrowing costs increase, we may experience delays in obtaining merchandise, the suppliers may increase their prices or they may negotiate new payment terms in a manner that is unfavorable to us. A failure in the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting could adversely impact our business. Our system of internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance that the objectives of an effective financial reporting control system are met. However, any system of internal controls is subject to inherent limitations and the design of controls will not provide absolute assurance that all objectives will be met. This includes the possibility that controls may be inappropriately circumvented or overridden, that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that misstatements due to errors or fraud may not be prevented or detected. Any failure in the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting could have a material effect on financial reporting or cause us to fail to meet reporting obligations, and could negatively impact investor perceptions. 14 Table of Contents We may be subject to adverse outcomes in current or future litigation matters. We are involved from time-to-time in litigation and other claims against our business. These matters arise primarily in the ordinary course of business but could raise complex, factual and legal issues requiring significant management time and, if determined adversely to the Company, could subject the Company to material liabilities. We believe that our current litigation matters will not have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations or financial condition. Our assessment of current litigation could change in light of the discovery of facts with respect to legal actions pending against us not presently known to us or determinations by judges, juries or other finders of fact which do not accord with our evaluation of the possible liability or outcome of such litigation. In addition, in recent years there has been increasing activity by companies which have acquired intellectual property rights but do not practice those rights (sometimes referenced to as patent trolls) to engage in very broad licensing programs aimed at a large number of companies in a wide variety of businesses or industries to retail companies generally or an even broader group of businesses. These efforts typically involve proposing licenses in exchange for a substantial sum of money and may also include the threat or actual initiation of litigation for that purpose. Any such litigation can be quite costly to defend, even if unsubstantiated or invalid. No such litigation is currently pending against the Company but the Company has received communications relating to such proposed licenses. It is not possible to predict the impact, if any, of such future claims on our business and operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no matters which are required to be reported under Item 1B. 