Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties we describe below, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Some of the following factors relate principally to our business and the industry in which we operate. Other factors relate principally to an investment in our common stock. (The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties that could develop. Other risks and uncertainties that we have not predicted or evaluated could also adversely affect our company.) If any of the following risks occur, our earnings, financial condition or business could be materially harmed, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our revenue and profitability will decline if the pharmaceutical industry undergoes certain changes, including limiting or discontinuing research, development, production and marketing of the pharmaceuticals that are compatible with the services we provide. Our business is highly dependent on the ability of biotech and other pharmaceutical companies to develop, supply and market pharmaceuticals that are compatible with the services we provide. Our revenue and profitability will decline if those companies were to sell pharmaceuticals directly to the public, fail to support existing pharmaceuticals or develop new pharmaceuticals with different administration requirements than our service offerings are currently equipped to handle. Our business could also be harmed if the pharmaceutical industry experiences any of the following developments: • supply shortages; • pharmaceutical recalls; • an inability to finance product development because of capital shortages; • a decline in product research, development or marketing; • a reduction in the retail price of pharmaceuticals; • changes in the FDA approval process; or • government or private initiatives that alter how pharmaceutical manufacturers, health care providers or pharmacies promote or sell products and services. If we lose relationships with managed care organizations and other non-governmental third party payors, we could lose access to a significant number of patients and our revenue and profitability could decline. We are highly dependent on reimbursement from managed care organizations and other non-governmental third party payors. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, 80%, 83% and 82% of our revenue came from managed care organizations and other non-governmental payors, including self-pay patients. Many payors seek to limit the number of providers that supply pharmaceuticals to their enrollees in order to build volume that justifies their discounted pricing. From time to time, payors with whom we have relationships require that we bid against our competitors to keep their business. As a result of such bidding process, we may not be retained, and even if we are retained, the prices at which we are able to retain the business may be reduced. The loss of a payor relationship could significantly reduce the number of patients we serve and have a material adverse effect on our revenue and net income, and a reduction in pricing could reduce our gross margins and our net income. Changes in the reimbursement rates or the loss of our contract with Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Florida would materially decrease our revenue. Our largest managed care contract is with Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Florida, Inc. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, 13%, 13% and 15% of our revenue was related to this contract. The contract is terminable by either party on 90 days’ notice and, unless terminated, renews annually 18 Table of Contents each September for an additional one-year term. The loss of this contract, or a material reduction in our pricing or pharmaceutical sales under this contract, would materially decrease our revenue and net income. Any reductions to or delays in collecting amounts reimbursable by Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Florida for our products or services could cause our revenue and profitability to decline and increase our working capital requirements. Changes in reimbursement rates from Medicare and Medicaid for the services we provide may cause our revenue and profitability to decline. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, 20%, 17% and 18% of our revenue came from reimbursement by federal and state programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Reimbursement from these and other government programs is subject to statutory and regulatory requirements, administrative rulings, interpretations of policy, implementation of reimbursement procedures, retroactive payment adjustments, governmental funding restrictions and changes to or new legislation, all of which may materially affect the amount and timing of reimbursement payments to us. Changes to the way Medicare pays for our services may reduce our revenue and profitability on services provided to Medicare patients and increase our working capital requirements. In addition, we are sensitive to possible changes in state Medicaid programs as we do business with a number of state Medicaid providers. Budgetary concerns in many states have resulted in and may continue to result in, reductions to Medicaid reimbursement as well as delays in payment of outstanding claims. Any reductions to or delays in collecting amounts reimbursable by state Medicaid programs for our products or services, or changes in regulations governing such reimbursements, could cause our revenue and profitability to decline and increase our working capital requirements. Our actual financial results might vary from our publicly disclosed results and forecasts. Our actual financial results might vary from those anticipated by us, and these variations could be material. From time to time we publicly provide earnings guidance. Our forecasts reflect numerous assumptions concerning our expected performance, as well as other factors, which are beyond our control, and which might not turn out to be correct. Although we believe that the assumptions underlying our projections are reasonable, actual results could be materially different. Our financial results are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties and estimates, including those identified throughout these “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this report and the documents incorporated by reference. Our gross profit could decrease if there are changes in the calculation of Average Wholesale Price (“AWP”) for the prescription drugs we sell, or if managed care organizations and other private payors replace AWP with a different reimbursement system. Our gross margin margins are largely controlled by our ability to purchase prescription drugs at discounted prices and to negotiate profitable managed care contracts. Contracts for the services we provide generally reference certain published benchmarks to establish pricing for prescription drugs. These benchmarks include average wholesale price (“AWP”), wholesale acquisition cost (“WAC”) maximum allowable cost (“MAC”) and average sales price (“ASP”). Most of our contracts utilize the AWP standard as published by First DataBank and a number of other private companies. Recent events have raised uncertainties as to whether the AWPs published by First DataBank will decline, resulting in a reduction of our gross profit margins. Specifically, in the recently announced proposed settlement in the case New England Carpenters Health Benefits Fund v. First DataBank, et al., (U.S. District Court, D. Mass.), a civil class action case brought against First DataBank, one of several companies that report data on prescription drug prices, First DataBank has agreed to reduce the markup to calculate AWP on over 8,000 specific pharmaceutical products by five percent. The proposed settlement has not yet received either preliminary or final court approval. We cannot predict the outcome of this case, or, if the settlement is approved, the precise timing of any of the proposed AWP changes. In the absence of any mitigating action on our part, the proposed reduction in First DataBank’s published AWP could reduce our revenue and narrow our gross profit margins. 19 Table of Contents Some managed care organizations are adopting ASP as the standard measure for determining reimbursement rates in new or renegotiated contracts. To the extent that we are not able to negotiate new ASP-based contracts with managed care organizations that produce gross profit margins comparable to our existing AWP-based contracts, our revenue and gross profit may be reduced. We are subject to pricing pressures and other risks involved with third party payors. Competition for patients, efforts by traditional third party payors to contain or reduce healthcare costs, and the increasing influence of managed care payors such as health maintenance organizations, has resulted in reduced rates of reimbursement for home infusion and specialty pharmacy services. Changes in reimbursement policies of governmental third party payors, including policies relating to Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state funded programs, could reduce the amounts reimbursed to our customers for our products and, in turn, the amount these customers would be willing to pay for our products and services, or could directly reduce the amounts payable to us by such payors. Pricing pressures by third party payors may continue, and these trends may adversely affect our business. Also, continued growth in managed care plans has pressured healthcare providers to find ways of becoming more cost competitive. Managed care organizations have grown substantially in terms of the percentage of the population they cover and in terms of the portion of the healthcare economy they control. Managed care organizations have continued to consolidate to enhance their ability to influence the delivery of healthcare services and to exert pressure to control healthcare costs. A rapid concentration of revenue derived from individual managed care payors could harm our business. If we do not adequately respond to competitive pressures, demand for our products and services could decrease. The markets we serve are highly competitive and subject to relatively few barriers to entry. Local, regional and national companies are currently competing in many of the healthcare markets we serve and others may do so in the future. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and managerial resources than we have. Consolidation among our competitors, such as pharmacy benefit managers (PBMs) and regional and national infusion pharmacy or specialty pharmacy providers could result in price competition and other competitive factors that could cause a decline in our revenue and profitability. We expect to continue to encounter competition in the future that could limit our ability to grow revenue and/or maintain acceptable pricing levels. Some biotech pharmaceutical suppliers in the specialty pharmacy industry have chosen to limit the number of distributors of their products. If we are not selected as a preferred distributor of one or more of our core products, our business and results of operations could be seriously harmed. Some biotech pharmaceutical manufacturers attempt to limit the number of preferred distributors that may market certain of their biopharmaceutical products. If this trend continues, we cannot be certain that we will be selected and retained as a preferred distributor or can remain a preferred distributor to market these products. Although we believe we can effectively meet our suppliers’ requirements, there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with other specialty pharmacy companies to retain our position as a distributor of each of our core products. Adverse developments with respect to this trend could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Any termination of, or adverse change in, our relationships with a single source product manufacturer or the loss of supply of a specific, single source specialty drug could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We sell biotech pharmaceuticals that are supplied to us by a variety of manufacturers, many of which are the only source of that specific pharmaceutical. In order to have access to these pharmaceuticals, and to be able to participate in the launch of new biotech pharmaceuticals, we must maintain good working relations with the manufacturers. Most of the manufacturers of the pharmaceuticals we sell have the right to cancel 20 Table of Contents their supply contracts with us without cause and after giving only minimal notice. One biotech pharmaceutical, Synagis®, which is manufactured and distributed by MedImmune, Inc., represented 9.5%, 7.3% and 6.8% of our revenue, respectively, for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. The loss of our relationship with MedImmune, Inc. or with one or more other biotech pharmaceutical manufacturer would reduce our revenue and profitability. We have recently experienced rapid growth by acquisitions. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business could be disrupted and our operating results could suffer. Our ability to successfully offer our products and services in evolving markets requires an effective planning and management process. In 2006, 2005 and 2004 combined, we completed 20 separate pharmacy business acquisitions, five of which were completed during 2006. Our growth through acquisitions, combined with the internal growth of our business based on our business plan, may place a strain on our management systems and resources. This growth has resulted in, and will continue to result in an increase in responsibilities for management. To accommodate our growth and compete effectively, we will need to continue to enhance, expand and improve our management and our operational and financial information systems and controls, and to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce. Our personnel, systems, procedures, or controls may not be adequate to support our operations in the future in light of anticipated growth. In addition, if we focus our financial resources and management attention on the expansion of our operations rather than on our ongoing operations, our financial results may suffer. If we are unable to acquire additional pharmacy facilities on favorable terms, we will be unable to execute our acquisition and development strategy. Our strategy includes increasing our revenue and earnings through strategic acquisitions of infusion therapy pharmacies and related businesses. Our efforts to execute our acquisition strategy may be affected by our ability to identify suitable candidates and negotiate and close acquisitions. We continue to evaluate potential acquisition opportunities, including the acquisition of certain of our franchisees, and expect to complete acquisitions in the future. The facilities we purchase may require working capital from us during the initial months of operation, depending on whether or not we acquire receivables as part of the acquisition agreement. We may acquire businesses with significant unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for failure to comply with health care or reimbursement laws and regulations. While we generally obtain contractual rights to indemnification from owners of the businesses we acquire, our ability to realize on any indemnification claims will depend on many factors, including, among other things, the availability of assets of the indemnifying parties. In the future, we may not be successful in acquiring pharmacies or in achieving satisfactory operating results at acquired pharmacies, and we may not be able to acquire healthcare businesses that produce returns justifying our related investment. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain sufficient capital resources to fund our acquisitions at terms acceptable to us, or at all. An impairment of goodwill on our financial statements could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Our acquisitions have resulted in the recording of a significant amount of goodwill on our financial statements. Goodwill was recorded because the purchase price was in excess of the fair value of the net identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired. We may not realize the full value of this goodwill. As such, we evaluate on at least an annual basis whether events and circumstances indicate that all or some of the carrying value of goodwill is no longer recoverable, in which case we would write off the unrecoverable goodwill as a charge against our earnings. Since our growth strategy will likely involve the acquisition of other companies, we may record additional goodwill in the future. The possible write-off of this goodwill could negatively impact our future earnings. We will also be required to allocate a portion of the purchase price of any acquisition to the value of any intangible assets other than goodwill that meet the criteria specified in the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, “Business Combinations,” such as marketing, customer or contract-based intangibles. The 21 Table of Contents amount allocated to these intangible assets could be amortized over a fairly short period, which may negatively affect our earnings. As of December 31, 2006, we had goodwill of $165.3 million, or 43.5% of our total assets and approximately 75.4% of stockholders’ equity. Changes in state and federal government regulation could restrict our ability to conduct our business. The marketing, sale and purchase of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies and provision of healthcare services generally is extensively regulated by federal and state governments. Other aspects of our business are also subject to government regulation. We believe we are operating our business in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The applicable regulatory framework is complex, and the laws are very broad in scope. Many of these laws remain open to interpretation and have not been addressed by substantive court decisions. Accordingly, we cannot provide any assurance that our interpretation would prevail or that one or more government agencies will not interpret them differently. Changes in the law or new interpretations of existing law can have a dramatic effect on what we can do, our cost of doing business and the amount of reimbursement we receive from governmental third party payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid. Also, we could be affected by interpretations of what the appropriate charges are under government programs. Some of the healthcare laws and regulations that apply to our activities include: • The federal “Anti-Kickback Statute” prohibits individuals and entities from knowingly and willfully paying, offering, receiving, or soliciting money or anything else of value in order to induce the referral of patients or to induce a person to purchase, lease, order, arrange for, or recommend services or goods covered in whole or in part by Medicare, Medicaid, or other government healthcare programs. Although there are “safe harbors” under the Anti-Kickback Statute, some of our business arrangements and the services we provide may not fit within these safe harbors or a safe harbor may not exist that covers the arrangement. The Anti-Kickback Statute is an intent based statute and the failure of a business arrangement to satisfy all elements of a safe harbor will not necessarily render the arrangement illegal, but it may subject that arrangement to increased scrutiny by enforcement authorities. Violations of the Anti-Kickback Statute can lead to significant penalties, including criminal penalties, civil fines and exclusion from participation in Medicare and Medicaid. • The “Stark Law” prohibits physicians from making referrals to entities with which the physicians or their immediate family members have a “financial relationship” (i.e., an ownership, investment or compensation relationship) for the furnishing of certain Designated Health Services (DHS) that are reimbursable under Medicare. The Stark Law exempts certain business relationships which meet its exception requirements. However, unlike the Anti-Kickback Statute under which an activity may fall outside a safe harbor and still be lawful, a referral for DHS that does not fall within an exception is strictly prohibited by the Stark Law. A violation of the Stark Law is punishable by civil sanctions, including significant fines and exclusion from participation in Medicare and Medicaid. • The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) provides federal privacy protections for individually identifiable health information. Through the adoption of the Privacy Rule, HIPAA set national standards for the protection of health information for providers and others who transmit health information electronically. In addition to regulating privacy of individual health information, HIPAA includes several anti-fraud and abuse laws, extends criminal penalties to private health care benefit programs and, in addition to Medicare and Medicaid, to other federal health care programs, and expands the Office of Inspector General’s (OIG’s) authority to exclude persons and entities from participating in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. • Pharmacies and pharmacists must obtain state licenses to operate and dispense pharmaceuticals. If we are unable to maintain our licenses or if states place burdensome restrictions or limitations on non-resident pharmacies, this could limit or affect our ability to operate in some states which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents We may become subject to federal and state investigations. Both federal and state government agencies have heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of healthcare companies, as well as their executives and managers. These investigations relate to a wide variety of topics, including referral and billing practices. Further, amendments to the federal False Claims Act have made it easier for private parties to bring whistleblower lawsuits against companies. Some states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. The Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services and the Department of Justice have, from time to time, established national enforcement initiatives that focus on specific billing practices or other suspected areas of abuse. Some of our activities could become the subject of governmental investigations or inquiries. For example, we have significant Medicare and Medicaid billings. In addition, our executives, some of whom have worked at other healthcare companies that are or may become the subject of federal and state investigations and private litigation, could be included in governmental investigations or named as defendants in private litigation, resulting in adverse publicity against us. We are not aware of any governmental investigations involving any of our company-owned facilities or our executives. A future investigation of us could result in significant liabilities or penalties to us, as well as adverse publicity, and could seriously undermine our ability to compete for business, negotiate acquisitions, hire new personnel and otherwise conduct our business. We may be subject to liability for the services we offer and the products we sell. We and other participants in the health care market are, have been and are likely to continue to be subject to lawsuits based upon alleged malpractice, product liability, negligence or similar legal theories, many of which involve large claims and significant defense costs. A successful claim not covered by our professional liability insurance or substantially in excess of our insurance coverage could cause us to pay out a substantial award. In addition, we retain liability on claims up to the amount of our deductibles, which generally are $250,000 per occurrence. Further, our insurance policy is subject to annual renewal and it may not be possible to obtain liability insurance in the future on acceptable terms, with adequate coverage against potential liabilities, or at all. Also, claims against us, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, could be a serious distraction to management and could harm our reputation. Labor strikes or similar work stoppages within the companies that provide our local and national distribution services could have a negative impact on our results of operations. We utilize several national delivery companies as an important part of the local and national distribution of our products and services, particularly in the delivery of certain specialty pharmaceutical products. A portion of the workforce utilized by these delivery companies are members of labor unions. A labor strike or similar work stoppage within any of the delivery companies that we utilize for distribution could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our image and reputation may be harmed by actions taken by our franchisees that are outside of our control. The majority of our local pharmacy locations are operated by franchisees. Franchisees are independent business owners and are not our subsidiaries or employees. Consequently, the quality of a franchised operation is dependent upon its owner(s) and manager(s). Franchisees may not successfully operate facilities or they may fail to comply with federal and state health care statutes and regulations. If they do not operate their franchises effectively or do not comply with applicable industry regulations, our image and reputation may suffer which could negatively impact our results of operations. Our gross profit margins may decline if our franchise royalties are reduced. We rely on royalty payments from our franchisees. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, we derived 0.8%, 1.4% and 1.9%, respectively, of our revenue from franchise royalties (excluding any acquisition settlement or termination gains). Our franchisees pay royalties on their gross receipts. Because 23 Table of Contents there is no “cost of goods sold” associated with this revenue, franchise royalties and other fees represent a significant portion of our gross profit. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, royalties and other franchise fees represented 3.0%, 4.8% and 6.8%, respectively, of our gross profit. If our franchisees encounter business or operational difficulties, our revenue from royalties may be adversely affected. Such difficulties may also negatively impact our ability to sell new franchises. In addition, if we are unable to successfully attract new franchisees or if our existing franchise owners either do not enter into new franchise agreements with us when their current agreements expire or enter into new franchise agreements with royalty payment rates less favorable to us than current rates, our franchise revenue, gross profit and overall profitability will decline. The loss of one or more of our key employees could harm our operations. Our success depends upon the availability and performance of our key executives, including our Chief Executive Officer, Rajat Rai. We do not have “key person” insurance for any of our key executives. The loss of the services of Mr. Rai or any of our other key executives could have a material adverse effect upon our business and results of operations. The current or future shortage in licensed pharmacists, nurses and other clinicians could adversely affect our business. The healthcare industry is currently experiencing a shortage of licensed pharmacists, nurses and other healthcare professionals. Consequently, hiring and retaining qualified personnel will be difficult due to intense competition for their services and employment. Any failure to hire or retain pharmacists, nurses or other healthcare professionals could impair our ability to expand or maintain our operations. The market price of our common stock may experience substantial fluctuations for reasons over which we have little control. Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market. The stock price and the share trading volume for companies in the healthcare and health services industry is subject to significant volatility. Both company-specific and industry-wide developments, as well as changes to the overall condition of the US economy and stock market, may cause this volatility. The market price of our common stock could continue to fluctuate up or down substantially based on a variety of factors, including the following: • future announcements concerning us, our competitors, the pharmaceutical manufacturers and managed care companies with whom we have relationships or the health care market; • changes in operating results from quarter to quarter; • sales of stock by insiders; • changes in government regulations; • changes in estimates by analysts; • news reports relating to trends in our markets; • the seasonal nature of pharmaceuticals we offer, including Synagis®; • acquisitions and financings in our industry; and • the overall volatility of the stock market. Furthermore, stock prices for many companies fluctuate widely for reasons that may be unrelated to their operating results. These fluctuations, coupled with changes in our results of operations and general economic, political and market conditions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 24 Table of Contents Increases in the “per share” market price of our common stock in future periods could result in dilution of our earnings per share. Increases in the market price of our common stock may result in dilution of our earnings per share related to the conversion feature of our 2.25% convertible senior notes. In accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue 04-8, The Effect of Contingently Convertible Instruments on Diluted Earnings per Share, our diluted shares must include the dilutive effect of our convertible notes for periods during which the average market price of our common stock exceeds its conversion price per the terms of the notes during a given period. The conversion price is currently set at $11.96 per share (subject to future adjustment, as needed). If the average market price of our common stock should exceed the conversion price per share in a given period, our diluted shares would increase, which could reduce our net income per diluted share for such period. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the average market price of our common stock exceeded the conversion price in effect at the end of each period, resulting in dilution of our earnings. Our diluted shares as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 included approximately 600,000 shares related to the dilutive effects of our 2.25% senior convertible notes. We may not have the ability to raise the funds to purchase our outstanding convertible senior notes on the purchase dates or upon a fundamental change or to pay the cash payment due upon conversion. On each of November 1, 2009, November 1, 2014 and November 1, 2019, holders of our convertible senior notes may require us to purchase, for cash, all or a portion of their 2.25% senior convertible notes at 100% of their principal amount, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, that date. If a fundamental change occurs, holders of the notes may require us to repurchase, for cash, all or a portion of their notes. In addition, upon conversion of the notes, we will be required to pay the principal, or, in certain circumstances, other amounts, in cash. We may not have sufficient funds for any required repurchase of the notes. In addition, the terms of any borrowing agreements that we may enter into from time to time may require early repayment of borrowings under circumstances similar to those constituting a fundamental change. These agreements may also make our repurchase of notes, or the cash payment due upon conversion of the notes, an event of default under the agreements. If we fail to repurchase the notes or pay the cash payment due upon conversion when required, we will be in default under the indenture for the notes. Our leverage, primarily relating to our outstanding 2.25% convertible senior notes, may harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our total consolidated long-term debt as of December 31, 2006 was $86.4 million, which represents 28.2% of our total capitalization as of that date. In addition, the indenture for our convertible senior notes will not restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences, because: • it could affect our ability to satisfy our obligations under the notes; • a portion of our cash flows from operations will have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; • it may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; • it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and • it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage a change in control. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware law, may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect or may delay or make more difficult an acquisition or change in control not approved by our board of directors, whether by means of a tender offer, open market purchases, a proxy 25 Table of Contents contest or otherwise. These provisions could have the effect of discouraging third parties from making proposals involving an acquisition or change in control, although such a proposal, if made, might be considered desirable by a majority of our stockholders. These provisions may also have the effect of making it more difficult for third parties to cause the replacement of our current management team without the concurrence of our board of directors. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 