ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are many factors that affect the Forgent’s business, prospects, liquidity and the results of operations, some of which are beyond the control of the Company. The following is a discussion of some, but not all, of these and other important risk factors that may cause the actual results of the Company’s operations in future periods to differ materially from those currently expected or desired. Additional risks not presently known to management or risks that are currently believed to be immaterial, but which may become material, may also affect the Company’s business, prospects, liquidity and results of operations. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LICENSING BUSINESS If the Company is unable to obtain new license agreements, operating results will decline. The Company’s Patent Licensing Program involves risks inherent in licensing intellectual property, including risks of protracted delays, legal or regulatory challenges that would lead to disruption or curtailment of the program, increasing expenditures associated with the pursuit of the program and other risks. Failure to sign new license agreements would cause operating results to suffer. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to license its technology to others. Additionally, quarterly operating results may fail to meet expectations for a number of reasons, including the unwillingness or inability of licensees to pay for the license and other fees, a decline in the demand for the Company’s patented technology, higher than expected operating expenses and license delays due to legal and other factors. The ‘672 patent will be expiring soon and revenues will decline if Forgent is unable to replace this revenue stream. To date, all of the Company’s intellectual property licensing revenue has been derived from the ‘672 patent. The U.S. ‘672 patent expires in October 2006 and its foreign counterparts expire in September 2007. Upon expiration of the ‘672 patent, Forgent will cease receiving royalties from the MPEG-2 consortium. Therefore, revenues from this patent are finite and, if such revenues are not replaced, net income and the market price of Forgent’s common stock will decline following the expiration of the ‘672 patent. Forgent’s ‘672 patent is currently being re-examined by the United States Patent and Trademark Office and the Federal Trade Commission is conducting a non-public inquiry into the Company’s Patent Licensing Program. Any negative results from the re-examination or the inquiry would reduce the Company’s ability to generate licensing revenues. See Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” for information regarding the United States Patent and Trademark Office’s (“USPTO”) re-examination of the ‘672 patent and the Federal Trade Commission’s (“FTC”) non-public inquiry associated with the Company’s Patent Licensing Program. This re-examination and inquiry can cause Forgent to incur significant legal expenses to defend its ‘672 patent and licensing program. Additionally, if the USPTO rejects certain claims of the ‘672 patent, the Company’s licensing abilities would be adversely affected. If the FTC proceeds with its inquiry and thereafter determines that the Company acted improperly, further proceedings before the FTC could ensue, which could result in a challenge to the Company’s licensing process. 10 Any negative results from the United States Patent and Trademark Office’s re-examination of the ‘746 patent may negatively affect the Company’s ability to generate licensing revenues. See Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” for information regarding the USPTO’s recent decision to re-examine the ‘746 patent. The USPTO’s re-examination can cause Forgent to incur significant legal expenses to defend its ‘746 patent and licensing program. Additionally, if the USPTO denies certain claims of the ‘746 patent, the Company’s licensing abilities would be negatively affected. Although Forgent has not recognized any licensing revenues from the ‘746 patent to date, any successful challenge to the licensing process would reduce the Company’s ability to negotiate settlements with defendants in the ‘746 Litigation and new licenses with other companies. Forgent’s licensing cycle is lengthy and costly, which could require the Company to incur significant legal expenditures, causing earnings to fluctuate. Forgent’s licensing cycle for its Patent Licensing Program is lengthy and costly, including expenditures related to various legal costs, consultant fees and travel costs. Due to multiple negotiations and legal due diligence required, the licensing process cannot necessarily be expedited. As a result, the Company’s intellectual property licensing revenues will fluctuate from quarter to quarter, making it difficult for Forgent to predict its revenues. Additionally, these fluctuations may lead to reduced prices for the Company’s common stock. Forgent may not prevail in its ‘746 Litigation proceedings, which could cause the Company to incur significant legal expenditures without any related earnings. The Company has initiated the ‘746 Litigation against several companies for the infringement of its ‘746 patent. As with any litigation, the outcome is uncertain, and although the Company intends to vigorously pursue its claims, there are no guarantees that the Company can protect its intellectual property rights in its current litigation or prevent the unauthorized use of its technology in the future. The litigation will be lengthy and costly. Additionally, unintended consequences of the Company’s litigations may adversely affect the Company’s business, including, without limitation, that the Company may have to devote significant time and financial resources to pursuing the litigations, that the Company may become subject to counterclaims or lawsuits and that the expenses of pursuing the litigations could increase based upon new developments. These, and other factors not currently known to or deemed material by management, could have a material and adverse impact on the Company’s business, prospects, liquidity and results of operations. Forgent’s litigation is dependent on highly competent, experienced and qualified legal counsel. If the Company changes its legal counsel, the Company’s operating results and financial condition could suffer. Forgent’s litigation involves intensive legal due diligence and negotiations. In the past, the Company changed its legal counsel, which cost the Company in terms of time and money. The Company may still encounter a number of risks associated with its current legal counsel, including but not limited to (1) turnover of individual attorneys working on the Company’s Patent Licensing Program; (2) availability of key attorneys working on the program; (3) financial and other resources available to legal counsel; and (4) the financial strength of legal counsel. These risks may cause delays in Forgent’s ability to proceed with its litigation, which could require significant additional legal expenditures and could result in declining revenues and earnings for the Company. SOFTWARE & SERVICES BUSINESS Claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties may adversely affect Forgent’s business. Forgent may become subjected to claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties as the number of competitors and available software products continues to grow and the functionality of such products increasingly overlap. Any infringement claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and financial resources, cause the loss or deferral of sales or require Forgent to enter into royalty or license agreements. In the event of a successful claim of intellectual property infringement against Forgent, the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected, if Forgent is unable to either license the technology or similar technology or develop alternative technology on a timely basis. If Forgent is able to license the technology, such royalty or license agreements may not be available on terms acceptable to the Company. 11 If Forgent is unable to successfully market and sell its software products and services, future software revenues may decline. The future success of the Company’s software segment is dependent in significant part on its ability to generate demand for its NetSimplicity software products and services. To this end, Forgent’s marketing and sales operations must increase market awareness of its products to generate increased revenue. All sales new hires will require training and may take time to achieve full productivity. Forgent cannot be certain that its new hires will become as productive as necessary or that it will be able to hire enough qualified individuals or retain existing employees in the future. The Company cannot be certain that it will be successful in its efforts to market and sell its products, and if it is not successful in building greater market awareness and generating increased sales, future software revenues may decline. Lack of new customers or additional sales from current customers could negatively affect the Company’s ability to grow revenues. Forgent’s business model depends on the expanded use of its software and Forgent must execute on its growth objectives. If the Company fails to grow its customer base or generate repeat and expanded business from its current customers, Forgent’s software revenues could be adversely affected. Since the Company’s maintenance and other service fees depend largely on the size and number of licenses that are sold, any downturn in Forgent’s software license revenue would negatively impact the Company’s deployment services revenue and future maintenance revenue. Additionally, if customers elect not to renew their maintenance agreements, Forgent’s maintenance revenue could be adversely affected. Increased competition may have an adverse effect on the Company’s profitability. The Company may encounter new entrants or competition from competitors in some or all aspects of its software business. The Company currently competes on the basis of price, technology, availability, performance, quality, reliability, service and support. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain a competitive advantage with respect to any of these factors. Many of the Company’s current and possibly future competitors have greater resources than the Company and, therefore, may be able to compete more effectively on price and other terms. Open source software may increase competition, resulting in decreases in Forgent’s prices of its software products. Many different formal and informal groups of software developers and individuals have created a wide variety of software and have made that software available for use, distribution and modification, often free of charge. Such open source software has been gaining in popularity among business users, particularly small to medium sized businesses, which are some of Forgent’s targeted customers. Although management is currently unaware of any competing open source software, if developers make scheduling or asset management software applications available to the open source community, and that software has competitive features, Forgent may need to change its product pricing and distribution strategy in order to compete. Forgent’s software products’ functionality may be impaired if third-party hardware products associated with the NetSimplicity software do not operate successfully. In addition to its software products, Forgent currently sells hardware from partnered vendors to its customers. The effective implementation of Forgent’s software products depends upon the successful operation of these third-party hardware products. Any undetected defects in these third-party products could prevent the implementation of or impair the functionality of Forgent’s software or blemish the Company’s reputation. If Forgent is unable to meet customer needs or expectations, the Company’s sales may suffer. Forgent cannot be certain that its existing or future software products will meet customer performance needs or expectations when shipped. If the Company’s products do not meet customer needs or expectations, for whatever reason, the Company’s sales would be adversely affected and furthermore, upgrading or enhancing the Company’s products could be costly and time consuming. Such upgrades or enhancements could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and liquidity. 12 If Forgent fails to introduce new versions and releases of functional and scalable software products in a cost-effective and timely manner, customers may license competing products and Forgent’s revenues will decline. The technology industry is characterized by continuing improvements in technology, resulting in the frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles, changes in customer needs and continual improvement in product performance characteristics. Forgent expects that its future financial performance will depend, in part, on revenue generated from its existing and future software products and the related products that the Company plans to develop or acquire. To be successful, Forgent must be cost-effective and timely in enhancing its existing software applications, developing new software technology and solutions that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of its existing and prospective clients, and anticipating technological advances and evolving industry standards and practices. Forgent spends a large portion of its research and development resources to product upgrades and may need to invest further in research and development in order to keep its software applications and solutions viable in the rapidly changing marketplace. This research and development effort, which may require significant resources, could ultimately be unsuccessful if Forgent does not achieve market acceptance for its new products or enhancements. Additionally, if the Company fails to anticipate and respond effectively to technological improvements or if Forgent’s competitors release new products that are superior to Forgent’s products in performance and/or price, demand for the Company’s software products may decline and Forgent may lose sales and fail to achieve anticipated revenues. Errors or defects in Forgent’s software could reduce demand for its software and result in decreased revenues, decreased market acceptance and injury to the Company’s reputation. Errors or defects in the Company’s software, sometimes called “bugs,” may be found from time-to-time, particularly when new versions or enhancements are released. Any significant software errors or defects may result in loss of sales, decreased revenues, delay in market acceptance and injury to the Company’s reputation. Despite extensive product testing during development, new versions or enhancements of Forgent’s software may still have errors after commencement of commercial shipments. Forgent corrects the “bugs” and delivers the corrections in subsequent maintenance releases and patches. However, errors or defects could put Forgent at a competitive disadvantage and can be costly and time-consuming to correct. If Forgent is unable to develop or maintain strategic relationships with its resellers and vendor partners who market and sell the Company’s products, software revenues may decline. Forgent supplements its direct sales force by contracting with resellers to generate international sales and vendor partners to help increase sales. Currently, resellers generate a relatively small portion of Forgent’s software sales. Therefore, Forgent’s software revenue growth will depend, in part, on adding new resellers and partners to expand its sales channels, as well as leveraging the relationships with existing resellers and partners. If the Company is unable to enter into successful new strategic relationships in the future or if the Company’s current relationships with its resellers and partners deteriorate or terminate, Forgent may lose sales and software revenues may decline. OTHER Forgent may not be able to protect or enforce its intellectual property rights which could cause the Company’s ability to license its technologies to be impaired. The Company’s success and ability to compete are substantially dependent on its proprietary technology and trademarks. The Company seeks to protect these assets through a combination of patent and trademark laws as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions. These legal protections afford only limited protection and enforcement of these rights may be time consuming and expensive. If Forgent cannot protect or enforce these rights, the Company’s ability to obtain future licenses could be impaired. Furthermore, despite best efforts, the Company may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating its intellectual property. Competitors may also independently develop similar, but not infringing, technology, duplicate products or design around the Company’s patents or other intellectual property. Additionally, the Company’s patent applications or trademark registrations may not be approved. Moreover, even if approved, the resulting patents or trademarks may not provide Forgent with any competitive advantage or may be challenged by third parties. If challenged, patents might not be upheld or claims could be narrowed. Any litigation surrounding the Company’s rights would force Forgent to divert important financial and other resources away from business operations. 13 Although Forgent is unable to determine the extent to which piracy of its software products occurs, management believes software piracy could be a problem. Since Forgent has international resellers and customers, piracy may occur in foreign countries where laws do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws in the United States. Forgent may face problems in connection with future acquisitions, which could create business difficulties and adversely affect operations. As part of Forgent’s business strategy, Forgent may acquire additional businesses, products and technologies that could complement or expand its ongoing business. However, Forgent may be unable to identify suitable acquisitions or investment candidates. Even if Forgent identifies suitable candidates, there are no assurances that the Company will be able to make the acquisitions or investments on favorable terms. Negotiations of potential acquisitions could divert management time and resources and the Company may incorrectly judge the value or worth of an acquired business, product or technology. Additionally, Forgent may incur significant debt or be required to issue equity securities to pay for such future acquisitions or investments. If Forgent acquires a company, Forgent may have difficulties integrating the products, services, technologies, personnel and operations into the Company’s ongoing business. These difficulties could disrupt Forgent’s ongoing business, distract management and the workforce, increase expenses and adversely affect operating results. If Forgent is unable to fully integrate acquired businesses, products or technologies with its existing operations, Forgent may not achieve the intended benefits of such acquisitions and related expenditures. If Forgent elects to raise additional capital, funds may not be available or if available, may not be on favorable terms to the Company. In the future, Forgent may elect to raise additional capital to fund its operations and/or acquisitions. However, Forgent cannot be certain that it will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all. If Forgent takes out additional loans, the Company may incur significant interest expense, which could adversely affect results of operations. If Forgent issues equity securities, its stockholders’ percentage of ownership would be reduced and the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those existing stockholders of the Company’s common stock. If Forgent is unable to raise funds on acceptable terms, Forgent may not be able to develop or enhance its products, respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, or take advantage of future opportunities, all of which could adversely affect Forgent’s business, operating results and financial condition. Historically, the Company has not been profitable and Forgent may continue to incur losses, which may result in decreases in revenues if customers raise viability concerns. For the year ended July 31, 2006, Forgent incurred losses of $3.6 million. For the year ended July 31, 2005, Forgent incurred losses of $6.6 million. For the year ended July 31, 2004, Forgent incurred losses of $20.6 million. As of July 31, 2006, Forgent had an accumulated deficit of $250.8 million. Despite the decreases in losses each fiscal year, Forgent may continue to incur additional losses. Continued losses may cause existing and new customers to question the Company’s viability and be reluctant to purchase from the Company. If Forgent is unable to increase its sales due to such concerns, revenues will decline, which would further adversely affect the Company’s operating results. Therefore, there are no assurances that the Company can achieve or generate sufficient revenues to achieve profitability. Forgent may experience significant fluctuations in its quarterly results and if the Company’s future results are below expectations, the price for the Company’s common stock may decline. In the past, Forgent’s revenues and operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter. Additionally, management expects that revenues and operating results will continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. These fluctuations may lead to reduced prices for the Company’s common stock. Several factors may cause the quarterly results to fluctuate, including: · timing of intellectual property license agreements and related recording of licensing revenues; · results of the claims construction and summary judgment hearings for the ‘746 Litigation; · resolution of the USPTO’s re-examination of the ‘672 patent and the ‘746 patent; 14 · resolution of the FTC’s non-public investigation; · timing and costs related to the Company’s patent litigation; · market demand for NetSimplicity’s software products and services; · timing of customers’ budget cycles; · timing of customer orders and deployment of NetSimplicity’s software products and services; · the mix of software license and services revenue; · timing of introducing new products and services or enhancements to existing products and services; · new product releases or pricing policies by Forgent’s competitors; · seasonal fluctuations in capital spending; · changes in the rapidly evolving market for web-based applications; · management’s ability to manage operating costs, a large portion of which are relatively fixed in advance of any particular quarter; · timing and costs related to possible acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies; · costs of attracting, retaining and training skilled personnel; · management’s ability to manage future growth; · changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles; and · general economic climate. Some of these factors are within management’s control while others are not. Accordingly, management believes that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of the Company’s revenues and operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that market analysts and investors should not rely on the results of any particular quarter as an indication of future performance. The loss of key management and personnel could hinder the development of Forgent’s technology and otherwise adversely affect the Company’s business. Forgent relies on the continued contributions of its senior management, sales and marketing, professional services and finance personnel. Forgent’s success depends upon its ability to attract, hire and retain highly qualified and experienced personnel, especially software developers and engineers who design and develop software applications in order to keep pace with client demand for rapidly evolving technologies and varying client needs. The Company’s operations are also dependent on the continued efforts of its executive officers and senior management and Forgent will likely depend on the senior management of any business it may acquire in the future. If any of the Company’s key personnel or senior management are unable or unwilling to continue in his or her present role, or if Forgent is unable to attract, train, retain and manage its employees effectively, Forgent could encounter difficulties in developing new products and product enhancements, generating revenue through increased sales efforts and providing high quality customer service. Forgent’s stock may be de-listed from NASDAQ, which may adversely affect the Company’s ability to raise capital and stockholders’ ability to sell their shares. On August 11, 2006, Forgent received a NASDAQ deficiency letter indicating that for 30 consecutive days, the per-share price of the Company’s common stock closed below the minimum $1.00 per-share requirement and therefore, its common stock is subject to potential delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market pursuant to Rule 4450(a)(5). The Company was provided 180 calendar days, or until February 7, 2007, to regain compliance by maintaining a bid price of at least $1.00 for 10 consecutive trading days. If the Company cannot achieve compliance with the minimum per-share price requirement by February 7, 2007, NASDAQ will provide written notification that the Company’s securities will be de-listed. If necessary, the Company may undergo a reverse stock split; however, a reverse stock split requires stockholders’ approval through the proxy process. The Company may also pursue trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market. If NASDAQ approves, Forgent would be provided an additional 180 calendar days to regain compliance with the minimum $1.00 per-share requirement while trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market. If the stockholders do not approve the reverse stock split, NASDAQ does not approve the Company to trade on the Capital Market and the Company cannot achieve compliance by any other means, Forgent’s common stock will be de-listed from NASDAQ. 15 If Forgent’s common stock is de-listed from NASDAQ, the market liquidity of Company’s common stock will be significantly limited, which would reduce stockholders’ ability to sell their Forgent securities in the secondary market. Additionally, any such de-listing would harm Forgent’s ability to raise capital through alternative financing sources on acceptable terms, if at all, and may result in the loss of confidence in the Company’s financial stability by suppliers, customers and employees. Forgent cannot give investors in its common stock any assurance that the Company will be able to regain and maintain compliance with the $1.00 per-share minimum price requirement for continued listing on NASDAQ or that its stock will not be de-listed by NASDAQ. Compliance with changing laws and regulations could cause the Company to incur additional expenses. As a result of assessing, implementing and complying with proposed and enacted changes in the laws and regulations affecting publicly held companies, including but not limited to, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, management anticipates increased accounting, audit and legal fees. Additionally, the new and proposed rules could also make it more difficult for Forgent to retain qualified individuals to serve on its Board of Directors. Although management continually monitors and evaluates developments with respect to these new and proposed laws and regulations, management cannot estimate the amount of the additional costs the Company may incur or the timing of such costs. However, such increased costs could materially and adversely affect Forgent’s results of operations. Forgent executed a new shareholders rights plan that could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of the Company. In December 2005, Forgent’s Board of Directors approved and executed a shareholder rights plan (“Rights Plan”) whereby one preferred share purchase right was distributed for each outstanding share of Forgent’s common stock for all stockholders of record on December 31, 2005. The Rights Plan, which was not adopted in response to any threat to the Company, was designed to guard against any proposed takeover, partial tender offers, open market accumulations and other tactics designed to gain control of the Company. Under the new plan, the rights become exercisable if a person or group thereafter acquires 15% or more of Forgent’s common stock or announces a tender offer for 15% or more of Forgent’s common stock. Such events, or if the Company is acquired in a merger or other business combination transaction after a person or group acquires 15% or more of its common stock, would entitle the right holder to purchase, at an exercise price of $13.00, a number of shares of common stock having a market value at that time of twice the right’s exercise price. The Rights Plan may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing unsolicited acquisition proposals, but there are no assurances a change of control will not occur. Due to Forgent’s limited operating history in its current lines of business, the Company may not be able to accurately predict future operating results, which could cause the Company to miss market analysts’ and investors’ expectations. Although founded in 1985, Forgent has a limited operating history in its current lines of business due to the Company’s transition to a licensor of intellectual property and a provider of scheduling and asset management software and services. As a result of this limited operating history, Forgent cannot forecast revenues and operating expenses based on historical results. Additionally, the Company’s ability to forecast quarterly revenue accurately is limited because of the relative unpredictability of its intellectual property licensing revenues. The Company’s business, operating results and financial condition will be materially adversely affected if revenues do not meet projections and if results in a given quarter do not meet expectations. Due to the risk factors noted above and elsewhere in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of the Company,” Forgent’s past earnings and stock price have been, and future earnings and stock price potentially may be, subject to significant volatility, particularly on a quarterly basis. Past financial performance should not be considered a reliable indicator of future performance and investors are cautioned in using historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Any shortfall in revenue or earnings from the levels anticipated by market analysts and investors could have an immediate and significant effect on the trading price of the Company’s common stock. 16 