ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our sales and earnings may be negatively impacted by foreign competition. In recent years, the North American furniture industry has been greatly affected by the substantial increase of competition from foreign manufacturers. Foreign manufacturers, primarily in China and other Asian countries, have a substantial labor and overhead cost advantage as compared to furniture manufacturers in North America. This results in the ability of foreign manufacturers to sell furniture at lower prices than domestic manufacturers are typically able to do. We expect these competitive industry conditions to continue. As a result, we are subject to the risk of losing market share to import competition, which could negatively impact our sales and earnings. We may not be able to raise prices because of competitive pressures. The furniture industry is highly fragmented and we encounter strong domestic and foreign competition in the sale of all our products. Some of these competitors are larger than we are and have greater financial resources. Our manufacturing operations also have experienced inflationary price increases in raw materials and other costs. Current market and competitive pressures may limit our ability to raise prices or to pass through significant cost increases to our customers. This could lower our earnings. Our sales and earnings may be adversely affected by changes in consumer spending on furniture and other household goods. Consumer spending on residential furniture is significantly affected by items such as consumer economic confidence levels, new and existing home sales and levels of discretionary income. If these items decrease, our sales and earnings could be adversely affected. Our ability to predict furniture preferences or buying patterns will affect our sales and earnings. Furniture preferences, styles and buying patterns are subject to change. If we are unable to predict or respond to changes in these preferences, styles or patterns, or if customer acceptance of our existing and new product lines decreases, we may lose sales and have to sell excess inventory at reduced prices. This could lower our earnings. Our business is affected by general economic conditions. The furniture industry historically has been cyclical in nature. General economic conditions as well as items such as interest rates, credit availability and inflationary trends influence business and consumer spending. These factors affect furniture buying decisions of end purchasers and our primary customers, which are furniture retailers and could affect our sales and earnings. 6 Our ability to grow sales and earnings depends on the successful execution of our business strategies. Our ability to maintain and grow our sales and earnings depends on the correct selection and successful execution of our business strategies for designing, manufacturing and marketing our products. We also must sell the right mix of products, maintain favorable production levels and manufacturing efficiencies at our facilities, use an appropriate blend of domestic manufacturing and global sourcing and retain an effective management, sales and production work force. All of these factors affect our ability to grow sales and earnings. Our reduced sales volume in recent years may result in future charges. We have several furniture brands, some of which have been impacted more severely than others by our reduced sales volume. We are closely monitoring this situation and, depending on business conditions, this could cause asset impairment and restructuring charges in the future. An erosion of our customer base could cause a decrease in sales and earnings. The loss of customers, whether due to customers purchasing products of one of our competitors instead of our products or due to customers going out of business, could cause a decrease in our sales and earnings. Lost sales may be difficult to replace and amounts owed to us by customers who go out of business may be uncollectible. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 7 