ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Many factors affect Forgent’s business, prospects, liquidity and the results of operations, some of which are beyond the Company’s control. The following is a discussion of important risk factors that may cause the actual results of the Company’s operations in future periods to differ materially from those currently expected or desired. Additional risks not presently known to management or risks that are currently believed to be immaterial, but which may become material, may also affect the Company’s business, prospects, liquidity and results of operations. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LICENSING BUSINESS If the Company is unable to obtain new license agreements, revenues will decline. The Company’s intellectual property licensing revenues have been derived primarily from the ‘672 patent and the ‘746 patent. However, the ‘672 patent has expired and the ‘746 patent will be expiring in May 2011. Additionally, the Company now considers the ‘672 Litigation and the ‘746 Litigation to be concluded. Therefore, management does not anticipate any additional licensing revenues from these patents. Although Forgent continues to explore its patent portfolio for additional opportunities, the Company’s Patent Licensing Program involves risks inherent in licensing intellectual property, including risks of protracted delays, legal or regulatory challenges that would lead to disruption or curtailment of the program, increasing expenditures associated with the pursuit of the program and other risks. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to license its technology to others. Additionally, management believes any revenues to be generated from the Company’s remaining patent portfolio may be less than those generated historically. SOFTWARE AND SERVICES BUSINESS The Company may encounter problems related to its acquisition of iEmployee, which could create business difficulties and adversely affect operations. The Company may have difficulties integrating the services, technologies, personnel and operations of iEmployee into the Company’s existing software business. These difficulties could disrupt Forgent’s ongoing business, distract management and other personnel, increase expenses and adversely affect operating results. If Forgent is unable to fully integrate iEmployee with its existing operations, the Company may not achieve all the intended benefits of the acquisition. 10 If Forgent is unable to successfully market and sell its software products and services, future software and services revenues will decline. The future success of the Company is dependent in significant part on its ability to generate demand for its NetSimplicity and iEmployee software products and services. To this end, Forgent’s marketing and sales operations must increase market awareness of the Company’s products and services to generate increased revenue. All new hires within the sales and marketing departments will require training and may take time to achieve full productivity. Forgent cannot be certain that its new hires will become as productive as necessary. The Company also cannot be certain that it will be able to hire enough qualified individuals or retain existing employees in the future, and therefore, cannot be certain that it will be successful in its efforts to market and sell its products and services. If Forgent is not successful in building greater market awareness and generating increased sales, future software and services revenues will decline. Lack of new customers or additional sales from current customers could negatively affect the Company’s ability to grow revenues. Forgent’s future success and business model depends significantly on its ability to expand the use of its software and services. The Company must execute on its growth objectives by increasing its market share, maintaining and increasing recurring revenues from new and existing customers, and selling additional products and services to new and existing customers. If the Company fails to grow its customer base or generate repeat and expanded business from its current customers, Forgent’s software and services revenues could be adversely affected. Since NetSimplicity’s maintenance and other service fees depend largely on the size and number of licenses that are sold, any downturn in NetSimplicity’s software license revenue would negatively impact the Company’s deployment services revenue and future maintenance revenue. Additionally, if customers elect not to renew their maintenance agreements, NetSimplicity’s maintenance revenue could be adversely affected. Increased competition may have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. The Company may encounter new entrants or competition from vendors in some or all aspects of its software business. The Company currently competes on the basis of price, technology, availability, performance, quality, reliability, service and support. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain a competitive advantage with respect to any of these factors. Some of Forgent’s competitors, both current and future, may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than the Company and, therefore, may be able to respond quicker to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. As a result, they may compete more effectively on price and other terms. Additionally, these competitors may devote greater resources in developing products or in promoting and selling their products to achieve greater market acceptance. Such competition could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. Open source software may increase competition, resulting in decreases in the prices of Forgent’s software products. Many different formal and informal groups of software developers and individuals have created a wide variety of software and have made that software available for use, distribution and modification, often free of charge. Such open source software has been gaining in popularity among business users, particularly small to medium sized businesses, which are some of Forgent’s targeted customers. Although management is currently unaware of any competing open source software, if developers make scheduling, asset management or workforce management software applications available to the open source community, and that software has competitive features, Forgent may need to change its pricing and distribution strategy in order to compete. A systems failure or any other service interruption could result in substantial expenses to the Company, loss of customers and claims by customers for damages caused by any losses they incur. The Company offers hosting services through both its NetSimplicity and iEmployee product lines. These services, which are supported by hardware, infrastructure, ongoing maintenance and back-up services, must be operated reliably on a 24 hours per day, seven days per week basis without interruption or data loss. If Forgent cannot protect its infrastructure, equipment and customer data files against damage from human error, power loss or telecommunication failures, intentional acts of vandalism, or any other catastrophic occurrences, services to its customers may be interrupted. If services are interrupted, 11 • Customers may not be able to retrieve their data; • The Company could incur significant expenses to replace existing equipment or purchase services from an alternative data center; • Customers may not renew their services or cancel their contracts; • Customers may seek reimbursement for losses that they incur; and/or • The Company’s reputation may be impaired, making it difficult to attract new customers. Although disaster recovery plans and strategies are in place, Forgent may not be successful in mitigating the effects of any systems failure or other service interruptions. Such failures or interruptions could significantly impair the Company’s operations and adversely affect the Company’s financial results. If Forgent’s business, systems and/or IT security is breached, the Company’s businesses may be adversely affected. A security breach in the Company’s business processes and/or systems has the potential to impact the Company’s customer information. Any issues of data privacy as they relate to unauthorized access to or loss of customer information could result in the potential loss of business, damage to the Company’s reputation and litigation. To prevent unauthorized access to confidential information or attempts to breach the Company’s security, Forgent continues to invest in the security of its IT systems and improve the controls within its IT systems and business processes. However, there is no assurance that the Company’s business and/or systems will not be breached. If Forgent’s security is breached or confidential information is accessed, the Company’s business and operating results may be adversely affected. Claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties may adversely affect Forgent’s business. The Company may become subjected to claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties as the number of competitors and available software products continue to grow and the functionality of such products increasingly overlaps. Any infringement claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and financial resources, cause the loss or deferral of sales or require the Company to enter into royalty or license agreements. In the event of a successful claim of intellectual property infringement against Forgent, the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected, unless the Company is able to either license the technology or similar technology or develop an alternative technology on a timely basis. Even if Forgent is able to license the technology, such royalty or license agreements may not be available on terms acceptable to the Company. If Forgent cannot prevent piracy of its software products, revenues may decline. Although the Company is unable to determine the extent to which piracy of its software products occurs, software piracy could be a problem. Since Forgent has international resellers and customers, piracy may occur in foreign countries where laws do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws in the United States. Piracy may cause the Company’s revenues to decline. Forgent seeks to protect its assets through a combination of patent and trademark laws as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions. These legal protections afford only limited protection and enforcement of these rights may be time consuming and expensive. Furthermore, competitors may also independently develop similar, but not infringing, technology or design around the Company’s products. The Company’s software products’ functionality may be impaired if third-party hardware devices associated with the software do not operate successfully. In addition to its software products, Forgent currently sells hardware devices from partnered vendors to its customers. The effective implementation of the Company’s NetSimplicity software products depends upon the successful operation of these third-party hardware products. Any undetected defects in these third-party products could prevent the implementation of or impair the functionality of the Company’s software or blemish Forgent’s reputation. 12 If customers cease using Microsoft Outlook© or if Microsoft changes its Outlook application significantly, revenues may decline and/or the Company may incur significant expenses to update its MRM Enterprise software. NetSimplicity’s MRM Enterprise software is designed to operate with Microsoft Outlook©. Although management believes that Microsoft Outlook© is currently and widely utilized by businesses in the Company’s target markets, there are no assurances that businesses will continue to use Microsoft Outlook© as anticipated, will migrate from older versions to newer versions of Microsoft Outlook©, or will not adopt alternative technologies that are incompatible with MRM Enterprise. Forgent may not be timely in updating its MRM Enterprise software to be compatible with Microsoft Outlook©. As a result, software revenues may decline. Additionally, the Company may incur significant expenses updating NetSimplicity’s MRM Enterprise software to be compatible with changes in Microsoft Outlook©. If Forgent fails to introduce new versions and releases of functional and scalable software products in a cost-effective and timely manner, customers may license competing products and Forgent’s revenues will decline. The technology industry is characterized by continuing improvements in technology, resulting in the frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles, changes in customer needs and continual improvement in product performance characteristics. Forgent expects that its future financial performance will depend, in part, on revenue generated from future software products and enhancements as well as other software related products that the Company plans to develop and/or acquire. To be successful, Forgent must be cost-effective and timely in enhancing its existing software applications, developing new software technology and solutions that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of its existing and prospective clients, and anticipating technological advances and evolving industry standards and practices. Forgent spends a large portion of its research and development resources on product upgrades and may need to invest further in research and development in order to keep its software applications and solutions viable in the rapidly changing marketplace. This research and development effort, which may require significant resources, could ultimately be unsuccessful if Forgent does not achieve market acceptance for its new products or enhancements. Additionally, if the Company fails to anticipate and respond effectively to technological improvements or if Forgent’s competitors release new products that are superior to Forgent’s products in performance and/or price, demand for the Company’s software products may decline and Forgent may lose sales and fail to achieve anticipated revenues. Errors or defects in Forgent’s software could reduce demand for its software and result in decreased revenues, decreased market acceptance and injury to the Company’s reputation. Errors or defects in the Company’s software, sometimes called “bugs,” may be found from time-to-time, particularly when new versions or enhancements are released. Any significant software errors or defects may result in loss of sales, decreased revenues, delay in market acceptance and injury to the Company’s reputation. Despite extensive product testing during development, new versions or enhancements of Forgent’s software may still have errors after commencement of commercial shipments. Forgent corrects the “bugs” and delivers the corrections in subsequent maintenance releases, patches and on-going service. However, errors or defects could put the Company at a competitive disadvantage and can be costly and time-consuming to correct. If Forgent is unable to develop or maintain strategic relationships with its resellers and vendor partners who market and sell the Company’s products, software revenues may decline. Forgent supplements its direct sales force by contracting with resellers and vendor partners to generate additional sales. Forgent’s software revenue growth will depend, in part, on adding new resellers and partners to expand the Company’s sales channels, as well as leveraging the Company’s relationships with existing resellers and partners. If the Forgent is unable to enter into successful new strategic relationships in the future or if the Company’s current relationships with its resellers and partners deteriorate or terminate, Forgent may lose sales and software revenues may decline. 13 OTHER If Forgent’s common stock is delisted from NASDAQ, its stockholders’ ability to sell their shares and the Company’s ability to raise capital may be adversely affected. In the past, the Company has received Nasdaq staff deficiency letters indicating that, for 30 consecutive business days, the bid price per share of the Company’s common stock closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement. Therefore, its common stock was subject to potential delisting from the Nasdaq Global Market Exchange pursuant to Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5). Although the Company regained bid price compliance after maintaining a share price in excess of $1.00 for ten consecutive business days and currently does not face a potential delisting from the Nasdaq Global Market Exchange, Forgent cannot give investors in its common stock any assurance that the Company will be able to maintain compliance with the $1.00 per share minimum price requirement for continued listing on NASDAQ or that its stock will not be delisted by NASDAQ in the future. If in the future the Company’s common stock is delisted from NASDAQ, the market liquidity of the Company’s common stock will be significantly limited, which would reduce stockholders’ ability to sell their Company securities in the secondary market. Additionally, any such delisting would harm Forgent’s ability to raise capital through alternative financing sources on acceptable terms, if at all, and may result in the loss of confidence in the Company’s financial stability by vendors, customers and employees. Forgent may face problems in connection with future acquisitions, which could create business difficulties and adversely affect operations. As part of the Company’s business strategy, Forgent may acquire additional businesses, products and technologies that could complement or expand its ongoing business. However, the Company may be unable to identify suitable acquisitions or investment candidates. Even if Forgent identifies suitable candidates, there are no assurances that the Company will be able to make the acquisitions or investments on favorable terms. Negotiations of potential acquisitions could divert management time and resources and the Company may incorrectly judge the value or worth of an acquired business, product or technology. Additionally, Forgent may incur significant debt or be required to issue equity securities to pay for such future acquisitions or investments. Historically, the Company has not been profitable and Forgent may continue to incur losses, which may result in decreases in revenues if customers raise viability concerns. Although Forgent generated net income for the year ended July 31, 2007, the Company incurred losses during the prior fiscal years. The net income during fiscal year 2007 was due to the income generated from the intellectual property licensing segment and is not expected to continue. Additionally as of July 31, 2007, Forgent had an accumulated deficit of $238.5 million and may incur additional losses in the future. Continued losses may cause existing and new customers to question the Company’s viability and be reluctant to purchase from the Company. If Forgent is unable to increase its sales due to such concerns, revenues will decline, which would further adversely affect the Company’s operating results. Therefore, there are no assurances that the Company can achieve or generate sufficient revenues to continue its current profitability. Forgent may not be able to protect or enforce its intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect the Company’s operations. The Company seeks to protect its assets through patent and trademark laws. Forgent currently has several patents and trademarks, as well as patent applications and trademark registrations. However, the Company’s patent applications or trademark registrations may not be approved. Additionally, even if approved, the resulting patents or trademarks may not provide the Company with any competitive advantage or may be challenged by third parties. If challenged, patents and trademarks might not be upheld or claims could be narrowed. Any challenges or litigation surrounding the Company’s rights could force Forgent to divert important financial and other resources away from business operations. If Forgent elects to raise additional capital, funds may not be available or, if available, may not be on favorable terms to the Company. In the future, Forgent may elect to raise additional capital to fund its operations and/or acquisitions. However, Forgent cannot be certain that it will be able to obtain financing on favorable terms. If Forgent takes out 14 additional loans, the Company may incur significant interest expense, which could adversely affect operating results. If Forgent issues equity securities, its stockholders’ percentage of ownership would be reduced and the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those existing stockholders of the Company’s common stock. If Forgent is unable to raise funds on acceptable terms, Forgent may not be able to acquire additional businesses, products or technologies, develop or enhance its existing products, respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, or take advantage of future opportunities, all of which could adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Forgent may experience fluctuations in its quarterly results and if the Company’s future results are below expectations, the price for the Company’s common stock may decline. In the past, the Company’s revenues and operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter due to the various events experienced by the intellectual property licensing segment. Although management expects that revenues and operating results may fluctuate less from quarter to quarter due to the conclusion of the ‘672 Litigation and the ‘746 Litigation, any fluctuation may lead to reduced prices for the Company’s common stock. Several factors may cause the quarterly results to fluctuate, including: • market demand for the Company’s software products and services; • timing of customers’ budget cycles; • timing of customer orders and deployment of the Company’s software products and services; • mix of software license and services revenues; • timing of introducing new products and services or enhancements to existing products and services; • new product releases or pricing policies by Forgent’s competitors; • seasonal fluctuations in capital spending; • changes in the rapidly evolving market for web-based applications; • management’s ability to manage operating costs, a large portion of which are relatively fixed in advance of any particular quarter; • timing and costs related to potential additional acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies; • costs of attracting, retaining and training skilled personnel; • management’s ability to manage future growth; • changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles; and • general economic climate. Some of these factors are within management’s control while others are not. Accordingly, management believes that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of the Company’s revenues and operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that market analysts and investors should not rely on the results of any particular quarter as an indication of future performance. The loss of key management and personnel could hinder the development of Forgent’s technology and otherwise adversely affect the Company’s business. Forgent relies on the continued contributions of its senior management, and its sales and marketing, professional services and finance personnel. Forgent’s success depends upon its ability to attract, hire and retain highly qualified and experienced personnel, especially software developers and engineers who design and develop software applications in order to keep pace with client demand for rapidly evolving technologies and varying client needs. The Company’s operations are also dependent on the continued efforts of its executive officers and senior management, including iEmployee’s senior management and the senior management of any business it may acquire in the future. If any of the Company’s key personnel or senior management are unable or unwilling to continue in his or her present role, or if Forgent is unable to attract, train, retain and manage its employees effectively, Forgent could encounter difficulties in developing new products and product enhancements, generating revenue through increased sales efforts and providing high quality customer service. 15 Although Forgent has executed a shareholders rights plan, there are no assurances that a change of control will not occur. In December 2005, the Company’s Board of Directors approved and executed a shareholder rights plan (“Rights Plan”) whereby one preferred share purchase right was distributed for each outstanding share of the Company’s common stock for all stockholders of record on December 31, 2005. The Rights Plan, which was not adopted in response to any threat to the Company, was designed to guard against any proposed takeover, partial tender offers, open market accumulations and other tactics designed to gain control of the Company. Under the Rights Plan, the preferred share purchase rights become exercisable if a person or group thereafter acquires 15% or more of the Company’s common stock or announces a tender offer for 15% or more of the Company’s common stock. Such events, or if the Company is acquired in a merger or other business combination transaction after a person or group acquires 15% or more of its common stock, would entitle the right holder to purchase, at an exercise price of $13.00 per share, a number of shares of common stock having a market value at that time equal to twice the right’s exercise price. The Rights Plan may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing unsolicited acquisition proposals, but there are no assurances a change of control will not occur. Due to the risk factors noted above and elsewhere in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” Forgent’s past earnings and stock price have been, and future earnings and stock price potentially may be, subject to significant volatility, particularly on a quarterly basis. Past financial performance should not be considered a reliable indicator of future performance and investors are cautioned in using historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Any shortfall in revenue or earnings from the levels anticipated by market analysts and investors could have an immediate and significant effect on the trading price of the Company’s common stock. 