ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We wish to caution you that there are risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risks described below and elsewhere in this report, particularly found in “Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements.” The following is not intended to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties, as it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors. Our business is particularly sensitive to economic conditions and consumer confidence. During most of 2010, the U.S. and global financial and equity markets continued to reflect recessionary trends, including tighter credit and lower levels of consumer confidence, consumer spending and business activity in general, as well as high levels of unemployment. We believe that these market conditions affect us more than other retailers because discretionary spending for items like men’s tailored apparel tends to slow sooner and to recover later than that for other retail purchases. We do not know if or when these market conditions are likely to show significant improvement, and a sustained continuation or worsening of such conditions could intensify the adverse effect of such conditions on our revenues and operating results. The general economic conditions in the UK and particularly service cut backs being put forth by the current government may reduce demand for the businesses of Dimensions and Alexandra. The UK has experienced and is continuing to experience an economic slow down. As a result of expected deficits, the UK government has announced significant reductions in public services including reductions in employment. Employees in the public service in the UK are a significant target market for the acquired businesses, and a substantial reduction in the number of these employees could adversely affect our UK operating results. Our ability to continue to expand our Men’s Wearhouse stores may be limited. A large part of our growth has resulted from the addition of new Men’s Wearhouse stores and the increased sales volume and profitability provided by these stores. We will continue to depend on adding new stores to increase our sales volume and profitability. As of January 29, 2011, we operate 585 Men’s Wearhouse stores. However, we believe that our ability to increase the number of Men’s Wearhouse stores in the United States is limited. Therefore, we may not be able to achieve the same rate of growth as we have historically. Certain of our expansion strategies may present greater risks. We are continuously assessing opportunities to expand complementary products and services related to our traditional business, such as corporate apparel and uniform sales. We may expend both capital and personnel resources on such business opportunities which may or may not be successful. Any acquisitions that we undertake could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute shareholder value and harm our operating results. In the event we complete one or more acquisitions, we may be subject to a variety of risks, including risks associated with an ability to integrate acquired assets or operations into our existing operations, higher costs or unexpected difficulties or problems with acquired assets or entities, outdated or incompatible technologies, labor difficulties or an inability to realize anticipated synergies and efficiencies, whether within anticipated time frames or at all. If one or more of these risks are realized, it could have an adverse impact on our operating results. Our retail business is seasonal. In most years, a greater portion of our net retail clothing sales have been generated during the fourth quarter of each year when holiday season shopping peaks. In addition, our tuxedo rental revenues are heavily concentrated in the second quarter while the fourth quarter is considered the seasonal low point. Because of the seasonality of our sales, results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full year. Any decrease in sales during these peak quarters could have a significant adverse effect on our net earnings. 12 Table of Contents The loss of, or disruption in, our Houston distribution center could result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores. All retail apparel merchandise for Men’s Wearhouse stores and a portion of the merchandise for K&G stores is received into our Houston distribution center, where the inventory is then processed, sorted and either placed in back-stock or shipped to our stores. We depend in large part on the orderly operation of this receiving and distribution process, which depends, in turn, on adherence to shipping schedules and effective management of the distribution center. Events, such as disruptions in operations due to fire or other catastrophic events, employee matters or shipping problems, may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores. For example, given our proximity to the Texas gulf coast, it is possible that a hurricane or tropical storm could cause damage to the distribution center, result in extended power outages or flood roadways into and around the distribution center, any of which would disrupt or delay deliveries to the distribution center and to our stores. Although we maintain business interruption and property insurance, we cannot assure that our insurance will be sufficient, or that insurance proceeds will be paid timely to us, in the event our Houston distribution center is shut down for any reason or if we incur higher costs and longer lead times in connection with a disruption at our distribution center. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile due to many factors. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and may change rapidly in the future depending on news announcements and changes in general market conditions. The following factors, among others, may cause significant fluctuations in our stock price: • news announcements regarding actual or forward-looking quarterly or annual results of operations, • comparable store sales announcements, • acquisitions, • competitive developments, • litigation affecting the Company, or • market views as to the prospects of the economy or the retail industry generally. Our success significantly depends on our key personnel and our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our success depends upon the personal efforts and abilities of our senior management team, particularly, George Zimmer, and other key personnel. Mr. Zimmer has been very important to the success of the Company and is the primary advertising spokesman. Although we believe we have a strong management team with relevant industry expertise, the extended loss of the services of Mr. Zimmer or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on the securities markets’ view of our prospects and materially harm our business. Also, our continued success and the achievement of our expansion goals are dependent upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified employees as we expand. Fluctuations in exchange rates may cause us to experience currency exchange losses. Moores conducts most of its business in Canadian dollars (“CAD”). The exchange rate between CAD and U.S. dollars has fluctuated historically. If the value of the CAD against the U.S. dollar weakens, then the revenues and earnings of our Canadian operations will be reduced when they are translated to U.S. dollars. Also, the value of our Canadian net assets in U.S. dollars may decline. Moores utilizes foreign currency hedging contracts to limit exposure to changes in U.S. dollar/CAD exchange rates. Dimensions and Alexandra, our UK-based acquisitions, sell their products and conduct their business primarily in pounds Sterling (“GBP”) but purchase most of their merchandise in transactions paid in U.S. dollars. The exchange rate between the GBP and U.S. dollars has fluctuated historically. A decline in the value of the GBP as compared to the U.S. dollar will adversely impact our UK operating results as the cost of merchandise purchases will increase, particularly in relation to longer term customer contracts that have little or no pricing adjustment provisions, and the revenues and earnings of our UK operations will be reduced when they are translated to U.S. dollars. Also, the value of our UK net assets in U.S. dollars may decline. Dimensions and Alexandra utilize foreign currency hedging contracts as well as price renegotiations to limit exposure to some of this risk. 13 Table of Contents We are subject to import risks, including potential disruptions in supply, changes in duties, tariffs, quotas and voluntary export restrictions on imported merchandise, strikes and other events affecting delivery; and economic, political or other problems in countries from or through which merchandise is imported. Many of the products sold in our stores and our corporate apparel operations are sourced from many foreign countries. Political or financial instability, terrorism, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity limitations, disruptions and costs, strikes and other work stoppages and other factors relating to international trade are beyond our control and could affect the availability and the price of our inventory. Our business is global in scope and can be impacted by factors beyond our control. As a result of our increasing international operations, we face the possibility of greater losses from a number of risks inherent in doing business in international markets and from a number of factors which are beyond our control. Such factors that could harm our results of operations and financial condition include, among other things: • political instability or acts of terrorism, which disrupt trade with the countries where we operate or in which our contractors, suppliers or customers are located; • recessions in foreign economies; • challenges in managing our foreign operations; • increased difficulty in protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions; and • restrictions on the transfer of funds between the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Our business could be adversely affected by increased costs of the raw materials and other resources that are important to our business. The raw materials used to manufacture our products are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by high demand for fabrics, weather conditions, supply conditions, government regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. In addition, our transportation and labor costs are subject to price volatility caused by the price of oil, supply of labor, governmental regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. Increases in demand for, or the price of, raw materials, distribution services and labor, including federal and state minimum wage rates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The costs of cotton and other raw materials significant to the manufacture of apparel have increased recently as have the costs of manufacturing in China. These increased costs could materially affect our results of operations to the extent they cannot be mitigated through price increases and relocation to lower cost sources of supply or other cost reductions. These increased costs could particularly impact our managed contract corporate wear business which tends to have more long term contractually committed customer sales arrangements with limited price flexibility. Our business is subject to numerous, varied and changing laws, rules and regulations, the interpretation of which can be uncertain and which may lead to litigation or administrative proceedings. The sale of goods at retail is subject to rules issued by the payment brand industry, and laws, rules and regulations promulgated by national, state and provincial authorities, including laws, rules and regulations relating to privacy, use of consumer information, credit cards and advertising. These laws, rules and regulations and the interpretation thereof are subject to change and often application thereof may be unclear. As a result, from time to time, the Company is subject to inquiries, investigations, and/or litigation, including class action lawsuits, and administrative actions related to compliance with these laws, rules and regulations. 14 Table of Contents If we are unable to operate information systems and implement new technologies effectively, our business could be disrupted or our sales or profitability could be reduced. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information systems, including our ability to operate them effectively and successfully to implement new technologies, systems, controls and adequate disaster recovery systems. In addition, we must protect the confidentiality of our and our customers’ data. The failure of our information systems to perform as designed or our failure to implement and operate them effectively could disrupt our business or subject us to liability and thereby harm our profitability. Rights of our shareholders may be negatively affected if we issue any of the shares of preferred stock which our Board of Directors has authorized for issuance. We have available for issuance 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.01 per share. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue any or all of this preferred stock, in one or more series, without any further action on the part of shareholders. The rights of our shareholders may be negatively affected if we issue a series of preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or distribution upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 15 Table of Contents 