Item 1A. Risk Factors. Because of the following, as well as other variables affecting Viad’s operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods: Viad’s businesses and operating results are adversely affected by deterioration in general economic conditions. Viad’s businesses are highly sensitive to fluctuations in general economic conditions and are impacted by increases and decreases in the cost of materials and operating supplies. Operating results for GES and Exhibitgroup/Giltspur depend largely on the number of exhibitions held and on the size of exhibitors’ marketing expenditures. These factors depend in part on the strengths or weaknesses of particular industries in which exhibitors operate. The number and size of exhibitions generally decrease during periods of adverse economic conditions and increase when general economic conditions are positive. Further, many exhibitors view a portion of their marketing budget as discretionary, and, as a result, marketing budgets are frequently among the first expenditures reduced by exhibitors when general economic conditions deteriorate, resulting in exhibitors reusing or refurbishing old exhibits rather than purchasing new exhibits. Marketing expenditures often are not increased, and new exhibits not purchased, until general economic conditions improve. As a result, during periods of adverse general economic conditions, the operating results of GES and Exhibitgroup/Giltspur may be adversely affected. Similarly, many of the retail shopping mall and lifestyle center customers of Becker Group view a portion of their marketing budgets as discretionary, and, as a result, those customers may refurbish existing holiday-themed exhibits and experiences rather than purchasing new products from Becker Group. 6 Table of Contents Revenues from the travel and recreation businesses depend largely on the amount of disposable income that consumers have available for travel and vacations. This amount decreases during periods of weak general economic conditions. Viad’s businesses are adversely affected by disruptions in the travel industry, particularly those adversely affecting the hotel and airline industries. The success of Viad’s businesses depends largely on the ability and willingness of people, whether exhibitors, exhibition attendees or other travelers, to travel, which is in turn dependent upon their ability and willingness to find and use transportation alternatives and accommodations. As a result, factors adversely affecting the travel industry as a whole, and particularly the airline and hotel industries, generally also adversely affect Viad’s businesses and results of operations. Factors that could adversely affect the travel industry as a whole include high or rising fuel prices, increased security and passport requirements, weather conditions, airline accidents and international political instability and hostilities. Unexpected events of this nature in the future, or other events that may have an impact on the availability and pricing of air travel and accommodations, could adversely affect Viad’s businesses and results of operations. The failure of a large customer to renew its services contract or the loss of business from convention facilities may adversely impact revenues. Although no single customer accounts for more than ten percent of the revenue of any of Viad’s business segments, GES has a relatively small number of large exhibition show organizers and Exhibitgroup/Giltspur and Becker Group have a number of large customer accounts. The loss of any of these large customers may adversely affect results of operations. In addition, GES’ revenues may be significantly impacted if certain convention facilities choose to in-source electrical, plumbing and other services that have represented revenue-generating opportunities for GES. When GES is hired as the official services contractor for an exhibition, the exhibition organizer contractually grants GES an exclusive right to perform these electrical and plumbing services, subject in each case to the convention facility’s option to in-source the services (either by performing the services themselves or by hiring a separate service provider). Many convention facilities are currently under financial pressure as a result of conditions generally affecting their industry, including an increased supply of convention space. As a result, some of these convention facilities may seek to in-source all or a large portion of these services. If a large number of facilities with which GES has these relationships seek to move these services in-house, GES’ revenues and operating results could be adversely affected. Viad’s foreign operations are impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Viad conducts its foreign operations primarily in Canada and in the United Kingdom, and to a lesser extent in certain other European countries. The functional currency of Viad’s foreign subsidiaries is their local currency. Accordingly, for purposes of consolidation, Viad translates the assets and liabilities of its foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars at the foreign exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date. The unrealized gains or losses resulting from the translation of these foreign denominated assets and liabilities are included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in Viad’s consolidated balance sheets. As a result, significant fluctuations in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar may result in material changes to Viad’s net equity position reported in its consolidated balance sheets. Viad does not currently hedge its equity risk arising from the translation of foreign denominated assets and liabilities. In addition, for purposes of consolidation, the revenues, expenses and gains and losses related to Viad’s foreign operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the average foreign exchange rates for the period. As a result, Viad’s consolidated results of operations are exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates as the operating results of its foreign subsidiaries, when translated, may vary from period to period, even when the functional currency amounts have not changed. While Viad’s consolidated results of operations have been favorably impacted by currency translation, future fluctuations in the exchange rates may adversely impact overall expected profitability and historical period to period comparisons. Viad does not currently hedge its net earnings exposure arising from the translation of its foreign operating results. During 2007, approximately 25 percent of revenue and 34 percent of operating income of Viad was derived through its Canadian and United Kingdom operations. During 2007, approximately 75 percent of revenue and 85 percent of operating income generated in Viad’s Travel and Recreation Services segment was derived through its Canadian operations. These operations are largely dependent on foreign customer visitation, and accordingly, increases in the value of the Canadian dollar compared to other currencies could adversely affect customer volumes, and therefore, revenue and operating income in the Travel and Recreation Services segment. 7 Table of Contents Viad’s key businesses are relationship driven. The business activities of GES, Exhibitgroup/Giltspur and Becker Group are heavily focused on client relationships, and, specifically, on the close collaboration and interaction between teams from the client and GES, Exhibitgroup/Giltspur or Becker Group, as the case may be. This relationship requires the account team to become attuned to the client’s desires and expectations in order to provide top-quality service. Viad has in the past lost, and may in the future lose, important customers (and corresponding revenues) if a key member of the account team were to cease employment with the Company and take that customer to a competitor. Viad’s businesses are seasonal, which causes results of operations to fluctuate and makes results of operations particularly sensitive to adverse events during peak periods. GES generally reports its highest revenues during the first quarter of each year and Exhibitgroup/Giltspur generally reports its highest revenues during the second quarter. A significant portion of Becker Group’s revenues are generated in the fourth quarter. The travel and recreation businesses are also seasonal, experiencing peak activity during the second and third quarters. These quarters accounted for approximately 85 percent of the travel and recreation businesses’ 2007 revenues. Because of the seasonal nature of these businesses, adverse events or conditions occurring during peak periods could adversely affect the operating results of Viad’s businesses. Exhibition rotation may impact overall profitability and makes comparisons between periods difficult. The business activities of GES and Exhibitgroup/Giltspur are largely dependent upon the frequency, timing and location of exhibitions and events as certain large exhibitions are not held annually (they may be held once every two or three years or longer), and some large exhibitions may be held at a different time of year than when they have historically been held. In addition, the same exhibition may be held in different locations in different years. The results of operations of GES and Exhibitgroup/Giltspur can fluctuate significantly as a result of this rotation. The rotation of exhibitions requires Viad to maintain a high degree of flexibility of resources (including personnel and equipment) and may result in a business generating lower margins in a given period if exhibitions shift to higher-cost cities. As a consequence of these factors, the operating results for these businesses may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter or from year to year, making periodic comparisons difficult. Transportation disruptions and increases in transportation costs could adversely affect Viad’s businesses and operating results. GES and Exhibitgroup/Giltspur rely on independent transportation carriers to send materials and exhibits to and from exhibitions, warehouse facilities and customer facilities. If they were unable to secure the services of these independent transportation carriers at favorable rates, it could have a material adverse effect on these businesses and their results of operations. In addition, disruption of transportation services because of weather-related problems, strikes, lockouts or other events could adversely affect their ability to supply services to customers and could cause the cancellation of exhibitions, which may have a material adverse effect on these businesses and operating results. Similarly, disruption of transportation services could adversely affect Becker Group’s ability to supply time-sensitive holiday-themed exhibits and experiences to retail shopping mall and lifestyle center customers and could cause the cancellation of the exhibits and experiences. Union-represented labor creates an increased risk of work stoppages and higher labor costs. A significant portion of Viad’s employees are unionized and Viad’s businesses are party to over 100 collective-bargaining agreements, with approximately one-third requiring renegotiation each year. If labor negotiations were to force the Company to increase wages or benefits and thus increase total labor costs, the increased costs could either be absorbed (which would adversely affect operating margins) or passed on to the customers, which may lead customers to turn to other vendors in response to higher prices. In either event, Viad’s businesses and results of operations could be adversely affected. Moreover, if the Company was unable to reach an agreement with a union during the collective bargaining process, the union may call for a strike or other work stoppage. In such a circumstance, Viad might be unable to find substitute workers with the necessary skills to perform many of the services, or may incur additional costs to do so, which could adversely affect the Company’s businesses and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Viad competes in competitive industries and increased competition could negatively impact operating results. Viad competes in highly competitive industries. Competition in the exhibition and event services and exhibit design and construction services industries is on the basis of price and service level, among other things. To the extent competitors seek to gain or retain their market presence through aggressive underpricing strategies, Viad may be required to lower its prices and rates, thereby adversely affecting operating results. If Viad were unable to meet the challenges presented by the competitive environment, results of operations could be adversely affected. Completed acquisitions may not perform as anticipated or be integrated as planned. We have acquired businesses and intend to continue to pursue opportunities to acquire businesses that could complement, enhance or expand our current businesses or offer growth opportunities to Viad. Any acquisition can involve a number of risks, including: the failure to achieve the financial and strategic goals and other benefits from the acquisition; the inability to successfully integrate the acquired business into Viad’s on-going businesses; the inability to retain key personnel or customers of the acquired business; the inability to successfully integrate financial reporting and internal control systems; the disruption of Viad’s ongoing businesses and distraction of senior management and employees of Viad from other opportunities and challenges due to the integration of the acquired business; and the potential existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or known by Viad prior to closing the acquisition or not otherwise provided for through the purchase agreement. Liabilities relating to prior and discontinued operations may adversely affect results of operations. Viad and its predecessors have a corporate history spanning over seven decades and involving approximately 2,400 previous subsidiaries in diverse businesses, such as the manufacturing of locomotives, buses, industrial chemicals, fertilizers, pharmaceuticals, leather, textiles, food and fresh meats. Some of these businesses used raw materials that have been, and may continue to be, the subject of litigation. Moreover, some of the raw materials used and the waste produced by these businesses have been and are the subject of U.S. federal and state environmental regulations, including laws enacted under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or its state law counterparts. In addition, Viad may incur other liabilities, resulting from indemnification claims involving sold subsidiaries as well as from past operations of those of predecessors or their subsidiaries. Although the Company believes it has adequate reserves and sufficient insurance coverage to cover these future liabilities, results of operations could be materially affected if future events or proceedings contradict current assumptions, and reserves or insurance become inadequate. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 