ITEM1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors, as well as factors described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, or in other filings by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission, could negatively affect the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Other factors not presently known to us or that we presently believe are not material could also affect our business operations and financial results. Global economic conditions could adversely affect the Company’s business and financial results. Unfavorable economic conditions, including the impact of recessions in the United States and throughout the world, may negatively affect the Company’s business and financial results. These economic conditions could negatively impact (i) demand for our products, (ii) the mix of our products’ sales, (iii) our ability to collect accounts receivable on a timely basis from certain customers and (iv) the ability of certain suppliers to fill our orders for raw materials or other goods and services. A prolonged recession could result in decreased revenue, margins and earnings. The loss of any large customer or a reduction in orders from any large customer could reduce our net sales and harm our operating results. Our operating results depend upon revenue from a few larger customers. Our customers are not contractually obligated to purchase any fixed quantities of products, and they may stop placing orders with us at any time. We are subject to the risk of losing large customers or incurring significant reductions in sales to these customers. 8 Table of Contents We rely on suppliers and contractors, and our business could be seriously harmed if these suppliers and contractors are not able to meet our requirements. We also rely on a limited number of suppliers and contractors for are Disposable Protective Apparel segment. If we lose the services of these key suppliers and contractors or they are not willing or able to satisfy our requirements finding substitute suppliers or contractors may be time-consuming and would affect our results from operations in the near-term. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 