ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We wish to caution you that there are risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risks described below and elsewhere in this report, particularly found in “Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements.” The following is not intended to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties, as it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors. Our business is particularly sensitive to economic conditions and consumer confidence. Consumer confidence is often adversely impacted by many factors including local, regional or national economic conditions, continued threats of terrorism, acts of war and other uncertainties. We believe that a decrease in consumer spending in response to recessionary conditions and/or a decline in consumer confidence will affect us more than other retailers because a slowing of men’s discretionary spending for items like tailored apparel tends to occur faster than that for other retail purchases. Our ability to continue to expand our Men’s Wearhouse stores may be limited. A large part of our growth has resulted from the addition of new Men’s Wearhouse stores and the increased sales volume and profitability provided by these stores. We will continue to depend on adding new stores to increase our sales volume and profitability. As of February 2, 2008, we operate 563 Men’s Wearhouse stores. However, we believe that our ability to increase the number of Men’s Wearhouse stores in the United States above 600 will be limited. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will continue to experience the same rate of growth as we have historically. Certain of our expansion strategies may present greater risks. We are continuously assessing opportunities to expand complementary products and services related to our traditional business, such as corporate apparel sales and retail dry cleaning establishments. We may expend both capital and personnel resources on such business opportunities which may or may not be successful. 9 Table of Contents Any acquisitions that we undertake could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and harm our operating results. In the event we complete one or more acquisitions, we may be subject to a variety of risks, including risks associated with an ability to integrate acquired assets or operations into our existing operations, higher costs or unexpected difficulties or problems with acquired assets or entities, outdated or incompatible technologies, labor difficulties or an inability to realize anticipated synergies and efficiencies, whether within anticipated timeframes or at all. If one or more of these risks are realized, it could have an adverse impact on our operations. Our business is seasonal. In most years, a significant portion of our net sales and our net earnings have been generated during November, December and January. In addition, the tuxedo rental business is heavily concentrated in the months of April, May and June. Second quarter, followed by the third quarter, is the highest revenue quarter for the tuxedo rental business and first and fourth quarters are considered off season. Accordingly, our results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of our annual profitability and any decrease in sales during these peak quarters could have a significant adverse effect on our net earnings. Sales in the men’s tailored clothing market have changed modestly over recent years. According to industry sources, sales in the men’s tailored clothing market increased modestly in 2005, declined slightly in 2006 and increased modestly again in 2007. We believe that these modest changes are an indication that demand for men’s tailored clothing may be weakening. As a result, we may not be able to continue to expand our sales volume within our segment of the retailing industry. The loss of, or disruption in, our centralized distribution center could result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores. All retail apparel merchandise for Men’s Wearhouse stores and a majority of the merchandise for K&G stores is received into our centralized distribution center in Houston, Texas, where the inventory is then processed, sorted and shipped to our stores. We depend in large part on the orderly operation of this receiving and distribution process, which depends, in turn, on adherence to shipping schedules and effective management of the distribution center. Events, such as disruptions in operations due to fire or other catastrophic events, employee matters or shipping problems, may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores. For example, given our proximity to the Texas Gulf Coast, it is possible that a hurricane or tropical storm could cause damage to the distribution center, result in extended power outages, or flood roadways into and around the distribution center, any of which would disrupt or delay deliveries to the distribution center and to our stores. Although we maintain business interruption and property insurance, we cannot assure you that our insurance will be sufficient, or that insurance proceeds will be timely paid to us, in the event our centralized distribution center is shut down for any reason or if we incur higher costs and longer lead times in connection with a disruption at our distribution center. Union activity as a result of the announced closure of our Golden Brand manufacturing facility could impact the interim production at the facility and subject the Company to a negative union campaign. On March 3, 2008, we announced our decision to close the Golden Brand manufacturing facility located in Montreal, Quebec in or around July 2008. Approximately 500 of our employees at Golden Brand belong to the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees (“UNITE”). As a result of the announced closure, UNITE has and may continue to engage in protests and other activities aimed at the Company. Such protests and other activities may result in slowdowns or disruptions in production at the manufacturing facility. In addition, such union activity may include attempts to dissuade customers from shopping at our stores. 10 Table of Contents Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile due to many factors. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and may change rapidly in the future depending on news announcements and changes in general market conditions. The following factors, among others, may cause significant fluctuations in our stock price: • news announcements regarding quarterly or annual results of operations, • comparable store sales announcements, • acquisitions, • competitive developments, • litigation affecting the Company, or • market views as to the prospects of the economy or the retail industry generally. Rights of our shareholders may be negatively affected if we issue any of the shares of preferred stock which our Board of Directors has authorized for issuance. We have available for issuance 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.01 per share. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue any or all of this preferred stock, in one or more series, without any further action on the part of shareholders. The rights of our shareholders may be negatively affected if we issue a series of preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or distribution upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Our success significantly depends on our key personnel and our ability to attract and retain additional personnel. Mr. George Zimmer has been very important to our success. Mr. Zimmer is the Company’s Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and primary advertising spokesman. The loss of Mr. Zimmer’s services could have a material adverse effect on the securities markets’ view of our prospects. Also, our continued success and the achievement of our expansion goals are dependent upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified employees as we expand. Fluctuations in exchange rates may cause us to experience currency exchange losses. Moores conducts most of its business in Canadian dollars. The exchange rate between Canadian dollars and U.S. dollars has fluctuated historically. If the value of the Canadian dollar against the U.S. dollar weakens, then the revenues and earnings of our Canadian operations will be reduced when they are translated to U.S. dollars. Also, the value of our Canadian net assets in U.S. dollars may decline. We are subject to import risks, including potential disruptions in supply, changes in duties, tariffs, quotas and voluntary export restrictions on imported merchandise, strikes and other events affecting delivery; and economic, political or other problems in countries from or through which merchandise is imported. Many of the products sold in our stores are sourced from many foreign countries. Political or financial instability, terrorism, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity limitations, disruptions and costs, strikes and other work stoppages and other factors relating to international trade are beyond our control and could affect the availability and the price of our inventory. If we are unable to operate information systems and implement new technologies effectively, our business could be disrupted or our sales or profitability could be reduced. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information systems, including our ability to operate them effectively and successfully to implement new technologies, systems, controls and adequate disaster 11 Table of Contents recovery systems. In addition, we must protect the confidentiality of our and our customers’ data. The failure of our information systems to perform as designed or our failure to implement and operate them effectively could disrupt our business or subject us to liability and thereby harm our profitability. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 12 Table of Contents 