Item 1A - Risk Factors - Liabilities relating to prior and discontinued operations may adversely affect results of operations” for a discussion of the risks related to liabilities arising from the Company’s compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws, which is incorporated herein by reference.EmployeesViad’s businesses had approximately 3,630 employees as of December 31, 2013 as follows: ApproximateNumber ofEmployees Regular Full-TimeEmployees Covered byCollective BargainingAgreementsMarketing & Events Group2,930 940Travel & Recreation Group550 110Viad Corporate150 —Total3,630 1,050Viad believes that relations with its employees are satisfactory and that collective-bargaining agreements expiring in 2014 will be renegotiated in the ordinary course of business without a material adverse effect on Viad’s operations.Viad Corporate provides management, financial and accounting, internal auditing, tax, administrative, information technology, corporate development, legal and other services to its operating units and handles residual matters pertaining to businesses previously discontinued or sold by the Company. Viad is governed by a Board of Directors comprised of eight non-employee directors and one employee director, and has an executive management team consisting of seven executive officers.SeasonalityExhibition and event activity varies significantly depending on the frequency and timing of shows (some shows are not held each year and some may shift between quarters). The Marketing & Events U.S. segment generally reports its highest revenue during the first quarter of each year, while the Marketing & Events International segment generally reports its highest revenue during the second quarter of each year. The Travel & Recreation Group segment experiences peak activity during the summer months and during 2013, 86 percent of its revenue was earned in the second and third quarters. Viad’s average segment operating income during the past three years, as a percentage of the average full year’s segment operating income during the past three years, was approximately 31 percent (first quarter), 28 percent (second quarter), 57 percent (third quarter) and negative 16 percent (fourth quarter). See “Viad’s businesses are seasonal, which causes results of operations to fluctuate and makes results of operations particularly sensitive to adverse events during peak periods” and “Exhibition rotation impacts overall profitability and makes comparisons between periods difficult” under “Item 1A Risk Factors,” which are incorporated herein by reference; see also Notes 20 and 23 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.6Table of ContentsFinancial Information about Restructuring ChargesInformation regarding restructuring charges is provided in Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.Financial Information about SegmentsBusiness segment financial information is provided in Note 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.Financial Information about Geographic AreasGeographic area financial information is provided in Note 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.Available InformationViad’s internet address is www.viad.com. Viad uses its web site as a routine channel for distribution of Company information, press releases, financial information and corporate governance initiatives. Viad posts filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including Viad’s annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements, amendments to those reports or statements and other information, as well as transactions in Viad securities by Viad’s directors and executive officers. All such postings and filings are available on Viad’s web site free of charge. In addition, Viad’s web site allows interested persons to sign up to automatically receive e-mail alerts when the Company posts news releases and financial information. The SEC’s web site, www.sec.gov, contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Such information also can be read and copied at the SEC’s public reference section, located in Room 1580, 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 and on the SEC’s internet site at www.sec.gov. Information regarding the operation of the public reference section can be obtained by calling (800) SEC-0330. The content on any web site referred to in this Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K unless expressly noted.Viad’s web site, at http://viad.investorroom.com/, includes key information about the Company’s corporate governance initiatives, including its Corporate Governance Guidelines, charters of the committees of the Board of Directors, Code of Ethics and information concerning Viad’s directors and a method to communicate with them. Viad will make available in print any of this information upon request to: Corporate Secretary, Viad Corp, 1850 North Central Avenue, Suite 1900, Phoenix, Arizona 85004-4565.Item 1A. Risk Factors.Viad’s operating results are subject to known and unknown risks. As a result, past financial performance and historical trends may not be reliable indicators of future performance.There can be no assurances that management’s current strategic evaluation of opportunities to enhance shareholder value will result in a transaction.Viad’s Board of Directors authorized management to explore and evaluate opportunities to enhance shareholder value, including a potential separation of its Travel & Recreation and Marketing & Events business groups. The Company engaged J.P. Morgan Securities LLC as its financial advisor to assist in this evaluation process. No decision has been made to separate the two business groups, and Viad cannot assure that it will identify and undertake a transaction that allows its shareholders to realize an increase in the value of Viad’s stock or provide any guidance on the timing of any such action. Viad also cannot assure that any potential transaction or other strategic alternative, if identified, evaluated and consummated, will provide greater value to its shareholders than that reflected in the current stock price. Any potential transaction would be dependent upon a number of factors that may be beyond Viad’s control, including, among other factors, the U.S. and global economic and market conditions, industry trends, the interest of third parties in Viad’s businesses and the availability of financing to potential buyers on reasonable terms.Viad’s future payment of special dividends should not be relied upon as a way to realize any future gains on an investment.The Board of Directors generally declares and pays regular dividends to Viad’s shareholders on a quarterly basis and also paid special dividends in November 2013 and February 2014. The decision to declare a special dividend and the amount, timing and payment of any such dividend are at the sole discretion of the Board. Factors in any decision to declare a dividend would include the amount of funds legally available and an evaluation of the Company’s financial condition, capital requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. Accordingly, an investor should not rely on the future payment of special dividends as a way to realize gains on their investment.7Table of ContentsViad’s businesses and operating results are adversely affected by deterioration in general economic conditions.Viad’s businesses are sensitive to fluctuations in general economic conditions and are impacted by increases and decreases in the cost of materials and operating supplies. Operating results for the Marketing & Events U.S. and International segments depend largely on the number of exhibitions held and on the size of exhibitors’ marketing expenditures, which in turn depend partly on the strength of particular industries in which exhibitors operate. The number and size of exhibitions generally decrease when the economy weakens.Further, many exhibitors’ marketing budgets are partly discretionary, and are frequently among the first expenditures reduced by exhibitors when economic conditions deteriorate, resulting in reduced spending by exhibitors for the Company’s services. Marketing expenditures often are not increased until economic conditions improve. As a result, during periods of general economic weakness, the operating results for the Marketing & Events Group are adversely affected. Similarly, many of the retail shopping mall and lifestyle center clients of the Marketing & Events Group may reduce marketing expenditures when economic conditions deteriorate.Revenues from the Travel & Recreation Group businesses depend largely on the amount of disposable income that consumers have available for travel and vacations. This amount decreases during periods of weak general economic conditions.Viad’s results of operations are impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates.Viad conducts foreign operations primarily in Canada, the United Kingdom and, to a lesser extent, in certain other countries. The functional currency of Viad’s foreign subsidiaries is their local currency. Accordingly, for purposes of consolidation, Viad translates the assets and liabilities of its foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars at the foreign exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date. The unrealized gains or losses resulting from the translation of these foreign denominated assets and liabilities are included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in Viad’s consolidated balance sheets. Significant fluctuations in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar may result in material changes to Viad’s net equity position reported in its consolidated balance sheets. Viad has not hedged its equity risk arising from the translation of foreign denominated assets and liabilities.In addition, for purposes of consolidation, the revenue, expenses and gains and losses related to Viad’s foreign operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the average foreign exchange rates for the period. As a result, Viad’s consolidated results of operations are exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, even when the functional currency amounts have not changed. Accordingly, fluctuations in the exchange rates affect overall profitability and historical period-to-period comparisons. Viad has not hedged its net earnings exposure arising from the translation of its foreign operating results.During 2013, $229.3 million of revenue and $9.1 million of segment operating income was derived through the International segment. In addition, $81.9 million of 2013 revenue and $19.1 million of 2013 segment operating income generated in the Travel & Recreation Group was derived through its Canadian operations. For this segment, Canadian operations are largely dependent on foreign customer visitation, and accordingly, increases in the value of the Canadian dollar as compared to other currencies could adversely affect customer volumes, and, therefore, revenue and segment operating income in the Travel & Recreation Group.Exhibition rotation impacts overall profitability and makes comparisons between periods difficult.The business activities of the Marketing & Events Group are largely dependent upon the frequency, timing and location of exhibitions and events. Some large exhibitions are not held annually (they may be held once every two or three years or longer). Some large exhibitions may be held at a different time of year than when they have historically been held. In addition, the same exhibition may be held in different locations in different years, and may result in Viad generating lower margins in a given period if the exhibition shifts to a higher-cost city.As a consequence of these factors, the operating results for these businesses may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter or from year to year, making periodic comparisons difficult.Viad’s businesses are adversely affected by disruptions in the travel industry, particularly those adversely affecting the hotel and airline industries.The success of Viad’s businesses depends largely on the ability and willingness of people, whether exhibitors, exhibition attendees or others, to travel. Factors adversely affecting the travel industry as a whole, and particularly the airline and hotel industries, generally also adversely affect Viad’s businesses and results of operations. Factors that could adversely affect the travel industry as a whole include high or rising fuel prices, increased security and passport requirements, weather conditions, airline accidents and international political instability and hostilities. Unexpected events of this nature, or other events that may have an impact on the availability and pricing of air travel and accommodations, could adversely affect Viad’s businesses and results of operations.8Table of ContentsThe failure of a large client to renew its services contract or the loss of business from convention facilities could adversely impact revenue.Although no single client accounts for more than 7.0 percent of the revenue of any of Viad’s reporting segments, the Marketing & Events U.S. and International segments have a relatively small number of large exhibition show organizers and large customer accounts. The loss of any of these large clients could adversely affect Viad’s results of operations.In addition, revenue of the Marketing & Events Group may be significantly impacted if certain exhibition facilities choose to in-source electrical, plumbing or other services. When the Marketing & Events Group is hired as the official services contractor for an exhibition, the show organizer contractually grants an exclusive right to perform these electrical and plumbing services, subject in each case to the exhibition facility’s option to in-source the services (either by performing the services themselves or by hiring a separate service provider). Many exhibition facilities are under financial pressure as a result of conditions generally affecting their industry, including an increased supply of exhibition space. As a result, some of these facilities have sought to in-source all or a large portion of these services. If a large number of facilities with which the Marketing & Events Group has these relationships moves these services in-house, Viad’s revenue and operating results could be adversely affected.Viad’s key businesses are relationship driven.The business activities of the Marketing & Events U.S. and International segments are heavily focused on client relationships, and, specifically, on the close collaboration and interaction with the client. These relationships require the account team to become attuned to the client’s desires and expectations in order to provide top-quality service. Viad has in the past lost, and may in the future lose, important clients (and corresponding revenue) if a key member of the account team were to cease employment with the Company and take those customers to a competitor.Completed acquisitions may not perform as anticipated or be integrated as planned.Viad has acquired businesses and intends to continue to pursue opportunities to acquire businesses that complement, enhance or expand Viad’s current businesses or offer growth opportunities to Viad. Any acquisition can involve a number of risks, including: the failure to achieve the financial and strategic goals and other benefits from the acquisition; the inability to successfully integrate the acquired business into Viad’s ongoing businesses; the inability to retain key personnel or customers of the acquired business; the inability to successfully integrate financial reporting and internal control systems; the disruption of Viad’s ongoing businesses and distraction of senior management and employees of Viad from other opportunities and challenges due to the integration of the acquired business; and the potential existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or known by Viad prior to closing the acquisition or not otherwise provided for through the purchase agreement.Viad’s businesses are seasonal, which causes results of operations to fluctuate and makes results of operations particularly sensitive to adverse events during peak periods.The Marketing & Events U.S. segment generally reports its highest revenue during the first quarter of each year, while the Marketing & Events International segment generally reports its highest revenue during the second quarter of each year. The Travel & Recreation Group businesses are generally also seasonal, experiencing peak activity during the second and third quarters. These quarters accounted for 86 percent of the segment’s 2013 revenue. Because of the seasonal nature of Viad’s businesses, adverse events or conditions occurring during peak periods could adversely affect the operating results of Viad’s businesses.New capital projects may not be commercially successful.From time to time, in an effort to seize opportunities that complement, enhance and expand its businesses, Viad pursues new capital projects. Capital projects are subject to a number of risks, including unanticipated delays and cost overruns, failure to achieve established financial and strategic goals and the inability to successfully integrate into Viad’s ongoing businesses, as well as additional risks specific to a project. The occurrence of any of the events described above could prevent a new capital project from performing in accordance with Viad’s commercial expectations and could have a material adverse effect on its businesses and results of operations.9Table of ContentsTransportation disruptions and increases in transportation costs could adversely affect Viad’s businesses and operating results.The Marketing & Events U.S. and International segments rely on independent transportation carriers to send materials and exhibits to and from exhibitions, warehouse facilities and customer facilities. If they were unable to secure the services of these independent transportation carriers at favorable rates, it could have a material adverse effect on these businesses and their results of operations. In addition, disruption of transportation services because of weather-related problems, strikes, lockouts or other events could adversely affect their ability to supply services to customers and could cause the cancellation of exhibitions, which may have a material adverse effect on these businesses and operating results. Similarly, disruption of transportation services could adversely affect the ability of the Marketing & Events Group to supply time-sensitive holiday-themed exhibits and experiences to retail shopping mall and lifestyle center customers and could cause the cancellation of the exhibits and experiences.Union-represented labor creates an increased risk of work stoppages and higher labor costs.A significant portion of Viad’s employees are unionized and Viad’s businesses are party to approximately 100 collective-bargaining agreements, with approximately one-third requiring renegotiation each year. If the results of labor negotiations caused the Company to increase wages or benefits, which increases total labor costs, the increased costs could either be absorbed (which would adversely affect operating margins) or passed on to customers, which may lead customers to turn to other vendors in response to higher prices. In either event, Viad’s businesses and results of operations could be adversely affected.Moreover, if the Company were unable to reach an agreement with a union during the collective-bargaining process, the union may strike or carry out other types of work stoppages. In such a circumstance, Viad might be unable to find substitute workers with the necessary skills to perform many of the services, or may incur additional costs to do so, which could adversely affect the Company’s businesses and results of operations.Obligations to fund multi-employer pension plans to which Viad contributes may have an adverse impact on operating results.Viad’s businesses contribute to various multi-employer pension plans based on obligations arising under collective-bargaining agreements covering its union-represented employees. Viad’s contributions to these multi-employer plans in 2013 and 2012 totaled $20.3 million and $20.7 million, respectively. Viad does not directly manage these multi-employer plans, which are generally managed by boards of trustees. Based upon the information available to Viad from plan administrators, management believes that several of these multi-employer plans are underfunded. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 requires pension plans underfunded at certain levels to reduce, over defined time periods, the underfunded status. In addition, under current laws, the termination of a plan, or a voluntary withdrawal from a plan by Viad, or a shrinking contribution base to a plan as a result of the insolvency or withdrawal of other contributing employers to such plan, would require Viad to make payments to such plan for its proportionate share of the plan’s unfunded vested liabilities. Viad cannot determine at this time the amount of additional funding, if any, it may be required to make to these plans. However, plan contribution increases, if any, could have an adverse impact on Viad’s consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Viad competes in competitive industries and increased competition could negatively impact operating results.Viad is engaged in a number of highly competitive industries. Competition in the exhibition and events industry and the exhibits and experiential environments industries is driven by price and service quality, among other factors. To the extent competitors seek to gain or retain their market presence through aggressive underpricing strategies, Viad may be required to lower its prices and rates to avoid loss of related business, thereby adversely affecting operating results. In addition, if Viad is unable to anticipate and respond as effectively as competitors to changing business conditions, including new technologies and business models, Viad could lose market share to its competitors. If Viad were unable to meet the challenges presented by the competitive environment, results of operations could be adversely affected.Liabilities relating to prior and discontinued operations may adversely affect results of operations.Viad and its predecessors have a corporate history spanning over eight decades and involving approximately 2,400 previous subsidiaries in diverse businesses, such as the manufacturing of locomotives, buses, industrial chemicals, fertilizers, pharmaceuticals, leather, textiles, food and fresh meats. Some of these businesses used raw materials that have been, and may continue to be, the subject of litigation. Moreover, some of the raw materials used and the waste produced by these businesses have been and are the subject of U.S. federal and state environmental regulations, including laws enacted under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or its state law counterparts. In addition, Viad may incur other liabilities, resulting from indemnification claims involving sold subsidiaries, as well as from past operations of predecessors or their subsidiaries. Although the Company believes it has adequate reserves and sufficient insurance coverage to cover these future 10Table of Contentsliabilities, results of operations could be materially affected if future events or proceedings contradict current assumptions, and reserves or insurance become inadequate.Terrorist attacks, natural disasters or other catastrophic events may have a negative effect on Viad’s business.The occurrence of catastrophic events ranging from natural disasters (such as hurricanes and floods), health epidemics or pandemics, acts of war or terrorism, or the prospect of these events could disrupt Viad’s businesses. Such catastrophic events could impact the Marketing & Events Group’s production facilities, preventing the Company from timely completing exhibit fabrication and other projects for customers, and also could cause a cancellation of exhibitions and other events held in public venues or a disruption in the services the Company provides to its customers at convention centers, exhibition halls, hotels and other public venues. Such catastrophic events also could adversely impact the Travel & Recreation Group businesses, which are heavily dependent on the ability and willingness of its guests to travel. The guests serviced by the Travel & Recreation Group tend to delay or postpone vacations if natural conditions differ from those that typically prevail at competing lodges, resorts and attractions during a given season, and catastrophic events could impede the guests’ ability to travel, interrupt the Company’s business operations and/or cause damage to the Company’s properties. If the conditions arising from such events persist or worsen, Viad could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on its results of operations and financial condition.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.