ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We wish to caution you that there are risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risks described below and elsewhere in this report, particularly found in "Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements." The following is not intended to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties, as it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors. Our business is particularly sensitive to economic conditions and consumer confidence. While economic conditions have improved in recent quarters, the U.S., UK and global economic conditions remain volatile as high unemployment levels and overall economic conditions could negatively impact consumer confidence and the level of consumer discretionary spending. The continuation and/or recurrence of these market conditions could intensify the adverse effect of such conditions on our revenues and operating results. We believe that these market conditions affect us more than other retailers because discretionary spending for items like men's tailored apparel tends to slow sooner and to recover later than that for other retail purchases. Accordingly, sales of our products may be adversely affected by a worsening of economic conditions, increases in consumer debt levels, uncertainties regarding future economic prospects or a decline in consumer confidence. During an actual or perceived economic downturn, fewer customers may shop with us and those who do shop may limit the amounts of their purchases. As a result, we could be required to take significant markdowns and/or increase our marketing and promotional expenses in response to the lower than anticipated levels of demand for our products. In addition, promotional and/or prolonged periods of deep discount pricing by our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business. Also, as a result of adverse economic conditions, customers may delay or postpone indefinitely roll-outs of new corporate wear programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our corporate apparel segment. Our ability to continue to expand our core Men's Wearhouse stores may be limited. A large part of our growth has resulted from the addition of new Men's Wearhouse stores and the increased sales volume and profitability provided by these stores. We will continue to depend on adding new stores to increase our sales volume and profitability. As of February 1, 2014, we operate 661 Men's Wearhouse stores. However, we believe that our ability to increase the number of Men's Wearhouse stores in the U.S. beyond approximately 750 may be limited. Therefore, we may not be able to achieve the same rate of growth as we have historically. Certain of our expansion strategies may present greater risks. We are continuously assessing opportunities to expand store concepts, such as outlet stores, and complementary products and services related to our traditional business, such as corporate apparel and uniform sales. We may expend both capital and personnel resources on such business opportunities which may or may not be successful. Additionally, any new concept is subject to certain risks, including customer acceptance, competition, product differentiation and the ability to obtain suitable sites for such concepts. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and grow new concepts to a point where they will become profitable or generate positive cash flow. Any acquisitions that we undertake could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute shareholder value and harm our operating results. In the event we complete one or more acquisitions, we may be subject to a variety of risks, including risks associated with an ability to integrate acquired assets or operations into our existing operations, diversion of management's attention from operational matters, higher costs or unexpected difficulties or problems with acquired assets or entities, outdated or incompatible technologies, labor difficulties or an inability to 13 Table of Contents realize anticipated synergies and efficiencies, whether within anticipated time frames or at all. If one or more of these risks are realized, it could have an adverse impact on our operating results. Our business is seasonal. In most years, a greater portion of our net retail clothing sales have been generated during the fourth quarter of each year when holiday season shopping peaks. In addition, our tuxedo rental revenues are heavily concentrated in the second and third quarters while the fourth quarter is considered the seasonal low point. Any factors negatively affecting us during these peak quarters, including inclement weather or unfavorable economic conditions, could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. With respect to our corporate apparel sales, seasonal fluctuations are not significant but customer decisions to rebrand, revise or delay their corporate wear programs can cause significant variations in quarterly results. Because of the seasonality of our sales, results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full year. The loss of, or disruption in, our Houston distribution center could result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores. All retail apparel merchandise for Men's Wearhouse stores and a portion of the merchandise for K&G stores is received into our Houston distribution center, where the inventory is then processed, sorted and either placed in back-stock or shipped to our stores. We depend in large part on the orderly operation of this receiving and distribution process, which depends, in turn, on adherence to shipping schedules and effective management of the distribution center. Events, such as disruptions in operations due to fire or other catastrophic events, employee matters or shipping problems, may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores. For example, given our proximity to the Texas gulf coast, it is possible that a hurricane or tropical storm could cause damage to the distribution center, result in extended power outages or flood roadways into and around the distribution center, any of which would disrupt or delay deliveries to the distribution center and to our stores. Although we maintain business interruption and property insurance, we cannot assure that our insurance will be sufficient, or that insurance proceeds will be paid timely to us, in the event our Houston distribution center is shut down for any reason or if we incur higher costs and longer lead times in connection with a disruption at our distribution center. Comparable sales may continue to fluctuate on a regular basis. Our comparable sales have fluctuated significantly in the past on both an annual and quarterly basis and are expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. We believe that a variety of factors affect comparable sales results including, but not limited to, changes in economic conditions and consumer spending patterns, weather conditions, the timing of certain holiday seasons, the number and timing of new store openings, the timing and level of promotional pricing or markdowns, store closing and remodels, changes in our merchandise mix or other competitive factors. Comparable sales fluctuations may impact our ability to leverage our fixed direct expenses, including store rent and store asset depreciation, which may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We may be negatively impacted by competition and pricing pressures from other companies who compete with us. Both the men's retail and the corporate apparel industries are highly competitive with numerous participants. We compete with traditional department stores, specialty men's clothing stores, online retailers, off-price retailers, manufacturer-owned and independently-owned outlet stores and their e-commerce channels, independently owned tuxedo rental stores and other corporate apparel providers. We face a variety of competitive challenges including anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands, maintaining favorable brand recognition, effectively marketing to consumers in diverse 14 Table of Contents demographic markets, and countering the aggressive promotional or other pricing activities of many of our competitors. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future without negatively impacting our operating results and business. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile due to many factors. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and may change rapidly in the future depending on news announcements and changes in general market conditions. The following factors, among others, may cause significant fluctuations in our stock price: •actual or forward-looking quarterly or annual results of operations, •comparable sales announcements, •potential or completed acquisitions and divestitures, •competitive developments, •litigation affecting the Company, or •market views as to the prospects of the economy or the retail industry generally. Our success significantly depends on our key personnel and our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our success depends upon the personal efforts and abilities of our senior management team and other key personnel. Although we believe we have a strong management team with relevant industry expertise, the extended loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on the securities markets' view of our prospects and materially harm our business. Also, our continued success and the achievement of our expansion goals are dependent upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified employees as we expand. Fluctuations in exchange rates may cause us to experience currency exchange losses. Moores conducts most of its business in Canadian dollars ("CAD"). The exchange rate between CAD and U.S. dollars has fluctuated historically. If the value of the CAD against the U.S. dollar weakens, then the revenues and earnings of our Canadian operations will be reduced when they are translated to U.S. dollars. Also, the value of our Canadian net assets in U.S. dollars may decline. Moores utilizes foreign currency hedging contracts to limit exposure to changes in U.S. dollar/CAD exchange rates. Dimensions and Alexandra, our UK-based operations, sell their products and conduct their business primarily in pounds Sterling ("GBP") but purchase most of their merchandise in transactions paid in U.S. dollars. The exchange rate between the GBP and U.S. dollars has fluctuated historically. A decline in the value of the GBP as compared to the U.S. dollar will adversely impact our UK operating results as the cost of merchandise purchases will increase, particularly in relation to longer term customer contracts that have little or no pricing adjustment provisions, and the revenues and earnings of our UK operations will be reduced when they are translated to U.S. dollars. Also, the value of our UK net assets in U.S. dollars may decline. Dimensions and Alexandra utilize foreign currency hedging contracts as well as price renegotiations to limit exposure to some of this risk. We are subject to import risks, including potential disruptions in supply, changes in duties, tariffs, quotas and voluntary export restrictions on imported merchandise, strikes and other events affecting delivery; and economic, political or other problems in countries from or through which merchandise is imported. Many of the products sold in our stores and our corporate apparel operations are sourced from various foreign countries. Political or financial instability, terrorism, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity limitations, disruptions, costs, strikes and other work stoppages and other factors 15 Table of Contents relating to international trade are beyond our control and could affect the availability and the price of our inventory. We require our vendors to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations and our internal policy requirements. However, we do not control our vendors or their labor and business practices. The violation of labor or other laws by one of our vendors or the divergence of a vendor's labor practices from those generally accepted by us as ethical could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished merchandise, damage our reputation or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. A labor union dispute could cause interruptions at our U.S. tailored clothing factory. Our U.S. tailored clothing factory manufactures a portion of the clothing offered for sale by our stores. Approximately 450 of our employees at the factory are members of Unite Here, a New England based labor union. We could experience shortages in product to sell in our stores if the factory fails to meet its production goals due to labor disputes. Any significant interruption in fabric supply could cause interruptions at our U.S. tailored clothing factory. The principal raw material used by our U.S. tailored clothing factory is fabric. Most of the factory's supply arrangements are seasonal. The factory does not have any long-term agreements in place with its fabric suppliers; therefore, no assurances can be given that any of such suppliers will continue to do business with us in the future. If a particular mill were to experience a delay due to fire or natural disaster and become unable to meet the factory's supply needs, it could take a period of up to several months for us to arrange for and receive an alternate supply of such fabric. In addition, import and export delays caused, for example, by an extended strike at the port of entry, could prevent the factory from receiving fabric shipped by its suppliers. Therefore, there could be a negative effect on the ability of the factory to meet its production goals if there is an unexpected loss of a supplier of fabric or a long interruption in shipments from any fabric supplier. Our business is global in scope and can be impacted by factors beyond our control. As a result of our international operations, we face the possibility of greater losses from a number of risks inherent in doing business in international markets and from a number of factors which are beyond our control. Such factors that could harm our results of operations and financial condition include, among other things: •political instability or acts of terrorism, which disrupt trade with the countries where we operate or in which our contractors, suppliers or customers are located; •recessions in foreign economies; •challenges in managing our foreign operations; •increased difficulty in protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions; and •restrictions on the transfer of funds between the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Our business could be adversely affected by increased costs of the raw materials and other resources that are important to our business. The raw materials used to manufacture our products are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by high demand for fabrics, weather conditions, supply conditions, government regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. In addition, our transportation and labor costs are subject to price volatility caused by the price of oil, supply of labor, governmental regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. Increases in demand for, or the price of, raw materials, 16 Table of Contents distribution services and labor, including federal and state minimum wage rates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The increase in the costs of wool and other raw materials significant to the manufacturer of apparel and the other costs of manufacturing could materially affect our results of operations to the extent they cannot be mitigated through price increases and relocation to lower cost sources of supply or other cost reductions. These increased costs could particularly impact our managed contract corporate wear business which tends to have more long term contractually committed customer sales arrangements with limited price flexibility. Our business is subject to numerous, varied and changing laws, rules and regulations, the interpretation of which can be uncertain and which may lead to litigation or administrative proceedings. Our business is subject to rules issued by the payment card industry (PCI), and laws, rules and regulations promulgated by national, state and provincial authorities, including laws, rules and regulations relating to privacy, use of consumer information, credit cards and advertising. In addition, we have over 18,000 employees located in 50 states and in multiple foreign countries and, as a result, we are subject to numerous and varying laws, rules and regulations related to employment. All of these laws, rules and regulations and the interpretation thereof are subject to change and often application thereof may be unclear. As a result, from time to time, we are subject to inquiries, investigations, and/or litigation, including class action lawsuits, and administrative actions related to compliance with these laws, rules and regulations. If we are unable to operate information systems and implement new technologies effectively, our business could be disrupted or our sales or profitability could be reduced. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information systems, including our ability to operate them effectively and successfully to implement new technologies, systems, controls and adequate disaster recovery systems. We also maintain multiple internet websites in the U.S. and a number of other countries. In addition, we must protect the confidentiality of our and our customers' data. The failure of our information systems to perform as designed or our failure to implement and operate them effectively could disrupt our business or subject us to liability and thereby harm our profitability. We could be subject to losses if we fail to address emerging security threats or detect and prevent privacy and security incidents. As part of our normal operations, we maintain and transmit confidential information about our customers as well as proprietary information relating to our business operations. Our systems or our third-party service providers' systems may be vulnerable to privacy and security incidents including attacks by unauthorized users, corruption by computer viruses or other malicious software code, emerging cybersecurity risks, inadvertent or intentional release of confidential or proprietary information, or other similar events. The occurrence of any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of information about us or our customers, whether by us or by one of our third-party service providers, could, among other things: •cause damage to our reputation, •allow competitors access to our proprietary business information, •subject us to liability for a failure to safeguard customer data, •subject us to regulatory action or litigation, •impact our ability to process credit card transactions, and •require significant capital and operating expenditures to investigate and remediate the breach. 17 Table of Contents We may not be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future at current rates. Our current insurance program is consistent with both our past level of coverage and our risk management policies. While we believe we will be able to obtain liability insurance in the future, because of increased selectivity by insurance providers we may only be able to obtain such insurance at increased rates and/or with reduced coverage levels which could impact our results of operations. Compliance with changing regulations and standards for accounting, corporate governance, tax and employment laws could result in increased administrative expenses and could adversely impact our business, results of operations and reported financial results. Our policies, procedures and internal controls are designed to help us comply with all applicable laws, accounting and reporting requirements, regulations and tax requirements, including those imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, as well as applicable employment laws and the health care reform legislation. Shareholder activism, the current political environment, financial reform legislation and the current high level of government intervention and regulatory reform has led, and may continue to lead, to substantial new regulations and disclosure obligations. Any changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations or the enactment of any new legislation that affects employment and labor, trade, product safety, transportation and logistics, health care, tax, privacy, or environmental issues, among other things, may increase the complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance. Failure to comply with the various laws and regulations, as well as changes in laws and regulations, could have an adverse impact on our reputation, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in accounting standards and estimates could materially impact our results of operations. Generally accepted accounting principles and the related authoritative guidance for many aspects of our business, including revenue recognition, inventories, goodwill and intangible assets, leases, income taxes and are complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules or changes in the underlying estimates, assumptions or judgments by our management could have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations. For example, proposed authoritative guidance for lease accounting, once finalized and enacted, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. We may recognize impairment on long-lived assets, goodwill and intangible assets. Periodically, we review our long-lived assets for impairment whenever economic events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. We also review our goodwill and intangible assets for indicators of impairment. Significant negative industry or general economic trends, disruptions to our business and unexpected significant changes or planned changes in our use of the assets may result in impairments to goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets. Our failure to protect our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our brands. Our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to our brands. Our reputation could be jeopardized if we fail to maintain high standards for merchandise quality and integrity and customer service. Any negative publicity about these types of concerns may reduce demand for our merchandise. Failure to comply with ethical, social, product, labor, health and safety or environmental standards could also jeopardize our reputation and potentially lead to various adverse consumer actions, including boycotts. Public perception about our products or our stores, whether justified or not, could impair our reputation, involve us in litigation, damage our brand and have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial statement information could also hurt our reputation. Damage to our reputation or loss of 18 Table of Contents consumer confidence for any of these or other reasons could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. Rights of our shareholders may be negatively affected if we issue any of the shares of preferred stock which our Board of Directors has authorized for issuance. We have available for issuance 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.01 per share. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue any or all of this preferred stock, in one or more series, without any further action on the part of shareholders. The rights of our shareholders may be negatively affected if we issue a series of preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or distribution upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. See Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Provisions of our charter documents and our shareholder rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Our bylaws contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors has also adopted a shareholder rights plan, or "poison pill," which would significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer. These circumstances may have the effect of lengthening the time required for a person to acquire control of us through a proxy contest or the election of a majority of our Board of Directors, may deter efforts to obtain control of us and may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without negotiation. We may not be able to successfully or timely complete the pending acquisition of Jos. A. Bank and such failure could adversely impact our business and the market price of our common stock. Risks and uncertainties related to the proposed transaction include, among others: (1) the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstances that could give rise to the termination of the agreement to acquire Jos. A. Bank, (2) the failure to consummate the acquisition of Jos. A. Bank for reasons including that the conditions to our offer to purchase all outstanding shares of Jos. A. Bank's common stock, including the condition that a minimum number of shares be tendered and not withdrawn, are not satisfied or waived by us, (3) the risk that regulatory or other approvals required for the transaction are not obtained and (4) litigation may be filed which could prevent or delay the transaction. The completion of the pending Jos. A. Bank transaction is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions set forth in the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated March 11, 2014, including the expiration or termination of applicable waiting periods (and any extensions thereof) under the HSR Act, there being no material adverse effect on Jos. A. Bank prior to the closing of the transaction and other customary conditions. We will be unable to complete the pending acquisition of Jos. A. Bank until each of the conditions to closing is either satisfied or waived. In deciding whether to not object to the acquisition, regulatory entities may impose certain requirements or obligations as conditions in connection with their review. We can provide no assurance that we will obtain the necessary approvals or that any required conditions will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or otherwise affect us following the completion of the Jos. A. Bank transaction. In addition, we can provide no assurance that any such conditions that are imposed would not result in the termination of the Jos. A. Bank transaction. In the event that the transaction is not completed, depending on the reasons for not completing the transaction, we could be required to pay Jos. A. Bank a termination fee of $75.0 million. We have incurred significant costs, expenses and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the proposed transaction, as well as the diversion of management resources, for which we will have received little or no benefit if the closing of the transaction does not occur. 19 Table of Contents For these and other reasons, our failure to complete the Jos. A. Bank transaction could adversely our business, operating results or financial condition, and could negatively affect the trading price of our equity and debt securities. If we complete the pending acquisition of Jos. A. Bank, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction which could adversely impact our business and our operating results. If the Jos. A. Bank transaction is completed, we can provide no assurance that (1) the anticipated benefits of the transaction, including cost savings and synergies, will be fully realized in the time frame anticipated or at all, (2) the costs or difficulties related to the integration of Jos. A. Bank's business and operations into ours will not be greater than expected, (3) that unanticipated costs, charges and expenses will not result from the transaction, (4) litigation relating to the transaction will not be filed, (5) that we will be able to retain key personnel and (6) the transaction will not cause disruption to our business and operations and our relationships with customers, employees and other third parties. If one or more of these risks are realized, it could have an adverse impact on our operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 Table of Contents 