ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We wish to caution you that there are risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risks described below and elsewhere in this report, particularly found in “Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements.” The following is not intended to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties, as it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors. Our business is particularly sensitive to economic conditions and consumer confidence, which have shown significant recent deterioration. The recent significant deterioration in the U.S. and global financial and equity markets, including high market volatility and tightening of credit, has led to significant declines in consumer confidence, consumer spending and levels of business activity generally, as well as higher levels of unemployment. We believe that these adverse market conditions will affect us more than other retailers because a slowing of men’s discretionary spending for items like tailored apparel tends to occur faster than that for other retail purchases. We do not expect that these adverse market conditions are likely to show significant improvement in the near future, and a sustained continuation or worsening of such conditions could intensify the adverse effect of such conditions on our revenues and operating results. Our ability to continue to expand our Men’s Wearhouse stores may be limited. A large part of our growth has resulted from the addition of new Men’s Wearhouse stores and the increased sales volume and profitability provided by these stores. We will continue to depend on adding new stores to increase our sales volume and profitability. As of January 31, 2009, we operate 580 Men’s Wearhouse stores. However, we believe that our ability to increase the number of Men’s Wearhouse stores in the United States above 600 will be limited. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will continue to experience the same rate of growth as we have historically. Certain of our expansion strategies may present greater risks. We are continuously assessing opportunities to expand complementary products and services related to our traditional business, such as corporate apparel and uniform sales. We may expend both capital and personnel resources on such business opportunities which may or may not be successful. Any acquisitions that we undertake could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute shareholder value and harm our operating results. In the event we complete one or more acquisitions, we may be subject to a variety of risks, including risks associated with an ability to integrate acquired assets or operations into our existing operations, higher costs or unexpected difficulties or problems with acquired assets or entities, outdated or incompatible technologies, labor difficulties or an inability to realize anticipated synergies and efficiencies, whether within anticipated time frames or at all. If one or more of these risks are realized, it could have an adverse impact on our operations. 10 Table of Contents Our business is seasonal. In most years, a greater portion of our net retail clothing sales have been generated during the fourth quarter of each year when holiday season shopping peaks. In addition, our tuxedo rental revenues are heavily concentrated in the second quarter while the fourth quarter is considered the seasonal low point. Because of the seasonality of our sales, results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full year. Any decrease in sales during these peak quarters could have a significant adverse effect on our net earnings. A continuation or worsening of the recent deterioration of the credit markets could impede our ability to renew or increase our current credit facility. Our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement with a group of banks, which was last amended on February 2, 2007, provides for a total senior secured revolving credit facility of $200.0 million, which can be expanded to $250.0 million upon additional lender commitments, that matures on February 11, 2012. The recent significant disruption to the U.S. and global credit markets has made it difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms. If these adverse market conditions continue or worsen, it may be more difficult for us to renew or increase our credit facility. The loss of, or disruption in, our Houston distribution center could result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores. All retail apparel merchandise for Men’s Wearhouse stores and a majority of the merchandise for K&G stores is received into our Houston distribution center, where the inventory is then processed, sorted and either placed in back-stock or shipped to our stores. We depend in large part on the orderly operation of this receiving and distribution process, which depends, in turn, on adherence to shipping schedules and effective management of the distribution center. Events, such as disruptions in operations due to fire or other catastrophic events, employee matters or shipping problems, may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores. For example, given our proximity to the Texas Gulf Coast, it is possible that a hurricane or tropical storm could cause damage to the distribution center, result in extended power outages, or flood roadways into and around the distribution center, any of which would disrupt or delay deliveries to the distribution center and to our stores. Although we maintain business interruption and property insurance, we cannot assure that our insurance will be sufficient, or that insurance proceeds will be paid timely to us, in the event our Houston distribution center is shut down for any reason or if we incur higher costs and longer lead times in connection with a disruption at our distribution center. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile due to many factors. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and may change rapidly in the future depending on news announcements and changes in general market conditions. The following factors, among others, may cause significant fluctuations in our stock price: • news announcements regarding quarterly or annual results of operations, • comparable store sales announcements, • acquisitions, • competitive developments, • litigation affecting the Company, or • market views as to the prospects of the economy or the retail industry generally. 11 Table of Contents Rights of our shareholders may be negatively affected if we issue any of the shares of preferred stock which our Board of Directors has authorized for issuance. We have available for issuance 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.01 per share. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue any or all of this preferred stock, in one or more series, without any further action on the part of shareholders. The rights of our shareholders may be negatively affected if we issue a series of preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or distribution upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Our success significantly depends on our key personnel and our ability to attract and retain additional personnel. Mr. George Zimmer has been very important to our success. Mr. Zimmer is the Company’s Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and primary advertising spokesman. The loss of Mr. Zimmer’s services could have a material adverse effect on the securities markets’ view of our prospects. Also, our continued success and the achievement of our expansion goals are dependent upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified employees as we expand. Fluctuations in exchange rates may cause us to experience currency exchange losses. Moores conducts most of its business in Canadian dollars. The exchange rate between Canadian dollars and U.S. dollars has fluctuated historically. If the value of the Canadian dollar against the U.S. dollar weakens, then the revenues and earnings of our Canadian operations will be reduced when they are translated to U.S. dollars. Also, the value of our Canadian net assets in U.S. dollars may decline. We are subject to import risks, including potential disruptions in supply, changes in duties, tariffs, quotas and voluntary export restrictions on imported merchandise, strikes and other events affecting delivery; and economic, political or other problems in countries from or through which merchandise is imported. Many of the products sold in our stores are sourced from many foreign countries. Political or financial instability, terrorism, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity limitations, disruptions and costs, strikes and other work stoppages and other factors relating to international trade are beyond our control and could affect the availability and the price of our inventory. If we are unable to operate information systems and implement new technologies effectively, our business could be disrupted or our sales or profitability could be reduced. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information systems, including our ability to operate them effectively and successfully to implement new technologies, systems, controls and adequate disaster recovery systems. In addition, we must protect the confidentiality of our and our customers’ data. The failure of our information systems to perform as designed or our failure to implement and operate them effectively could disrupt our business or subject us to liability and thereby harm our profitability. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 12 Table of Contents 