Risk Factors We wish to caution you that there are risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risks described below and elsewhere in this report, particularly found in “Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements.” The following is not intended to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties, as it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors. Our ability to continue to expand our Men’s Wearhouse stores may be limited. A large part of our growth has resulted from the addition of new Men’s Wearhouse stores and the increased sales volume and profitability provided by these stores. We will continue to depend on adding new stores to increase our sales volume and profitability. As of January 28, 2006, we operate 526 Men’s Wearhouse stores. However, we believe that our ability to increase the number of Men’s Wearhouse stores in the United States above 600 will be limited. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will continue to experience the same rate of growth as we have historically. Expansion into new markets may not be profitable. When we enter new markets, we have to: • obtain suitable store locations, • hire personnel, • establish distribution methods, and • advertise our brand names and our distinguishing characteristics to consumers who may not be familiar with them. We cannot assure you that we will be able to open and operate new stores on a timely and profitable basis. The costs associated with opening new stores may negatively affect our profitability. Conditions in the commercial real estate market existing at the time we seek to expand could cause us to postpone our expansion plans. Certain of our expansion strategies may present greater risks. Expansion into more complementary products and services may present greater risks. We are continuously assessing opportunities to expand complementary products and services related to our traditional business, such as corporate apparel sales and retail dry cleaning establishments. We may expend both capital and personnel resources on such business opportunities which may or may not be successful. Our business is seasonal. In most years, a significant portion of our net sales and our net earnings have been generated during November, December and January. Accordingly, our results for the first, second and third quarters of our fiscal year are not necessarily indicative of our annual profitability. Therefore, any decrease in sales during these months could have a significant adverse effect on our net earnings. Our business is particularly sensitive to economic conditions and consumer confidence. Consumer confidence is often adversely impacted by many factors including local, regional or national economic conditions, continued threats of terrorism, acts of war and other uncertainties. We believe that a decrease in consumer spending will affect us more than other retailers because men’s discretionary spending for items like tailored apparel tends to slow faster than other retail purchases. 7 Table of Contents Sales in the men’s tailored clothing market have increased modestly over recent years. According to industry sources, sales in the men’s tailored clothing market increased modestly in 2004 and in 2005. We believe that this trend is attributable primarily to more employers returning to less relaxed dress codes. We also believe that this trend has contributed to our increases in comparable store sales. However, this trend may not continue and we may not be able to continue to expand our sales volume within our segment of the retailing industry. The loss of, or disruption in, our centralized distribution center could result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores. All merchandise for Men’s Wearhouse stores and a majority of the merchandise for K&G stores is received into our centralized distribution center in Houston, Texas, where the inventory is then processed, sorted and shipped to our stores. In addition, over 90% of our U.S. tuxedo rental product and our unit rentals are maintained and processed through this facility. We depend in large part on the orderly operation of this receiving and distribution process, which depends, in turn, on adherence to shipping schedules and effective management of the distribution center. Events, such as disruptions in operations due to fire or other catastrophic events, employee matters or shipping problems, may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise and/or tuxedo rentals to our stores. For example, given our proximity to the Texas Gulf Coast, it is possible that a hurricane or tropical storm could cause damage to the distribution center, result in extended power outages, or flood roadways into and around the distribution center, any of which would disrupt or delay deliveries to the distribution center and to our stores. Although we maintain business interruption and property insurance, we cannot assure you that our insurance will be sufficient, or that insurance proceeds will be timely paid to us, in the event our distribution center is shut down for any reason or if we incur higher costs and longer lead times in connection with a disruption at our distribution center. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile due to many factors. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and may change rapidly in the future depending on news announcements and changes in general market conditions. The following factors, among others, may cause significant fluctuations in our stock price: • news announcements regarding quarterly or annual results of operations, • comparable store sales announcements, • acquisitions, • competitive developments, • litigation affecting the Company, or • market views as to the prospects of the retail industry generally. Rights of our shareholders may be negatively affected if we issue any of the shares of preferred stock which our Board of Directors has authorized for issuance. We have available for issuance 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.01 per share. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue any or all of this preferred stock, in one or more series, without any further action on the part of shareholders. The rights of our shareholders may be negatively affected if we issue a series of preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or distribution upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. See Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Our success significantly depends on our key personnel and our ability to attract and retain additional personnel. Mr. George Zimmer has been very important to our success. Mr. Zimmer is the Company’s Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and primary advertising spokesman. The loss of Mr. Zimmer’s services could have a material adverse effect on the securities markets’ view of our prospects. 8 Table of Contents Also, our continued success and the achievement of our expansion goals are dependent upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified employees as we expand. Fluctuations in exchange rates may cause us to experience currency exchange losses. Moores conducts most of its business in Canadian dollars. The exchange rate between Canadian dollars and U.S. dollars has fluctuated historically. If the value of the Canadian dollar against the U.S. dollar weakens, then the revenues and earnings of our Canadian operations will be reduced when they are translated to U.S. dollars. Also, the value of our Canadian net assets in U.S. dollars may decline. In connection with our direct sourcing program, we may enter into purchase commitments that are denominated in a foreign currency (primarily the Euro), which create currency exchange risks. If the value of foreign currency strengthens, then the cost in U.S. dollars to purchase such goods would increase. A labor union dispute could cause interruptions in the Moores manufacturing business. Moores, through its wholly owned subsidiary, Golden Brand Clothing (Canada) Ltd., manufactures a significant portion of the tailored clothing offered for sale by our Moores stores. Approximately 700 of our employees at Golden Brand belong to the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees. We could experience shortages in men’s tailored clothing to sell in our Moores stores if Golden Brand fails to meet its production goals due to labor disputes. Any significant interruption in fabric supply could cause interruption in the Moores manufacturing business. Golden Brand’s principal raw material is fabric. Most of Golden Brand’s supply arrangements are seasonal. Golden Brand does not have any long-term agreements in place with its fabric suppliers; therefore, no assurances can be given that any of such suppliers will continue to do business with Golden Brand in the future. If a particular mill were to experience a delay due to fire or natural disaster and become unable to meet Golden Brand’s supply needs, it could take a period of up to several months for Golden Brand to arrange for and receive an alternate supply of such fabric. In addition, import and export delays caused, for example, by an extended strike at the port of entry, could prevent Golden Brand from receiving fabric shipped by its suppliers. Therefore, there could be a negative effect on the ability of Golden Brand to meet its production goals if there is an unexpected loss of a supplier of fabric or a long interruption in shipments from any fabric supplier. We are subject to import risks, including potential disruptions in supply, changes in duties, tariffs, quotas and voluntary export restrictions on imported merchandise, strikes and other events affecting delivery; and economic, political or other problems in countries from or through which merchandise is imported. Many of the products sold in our stores are sourced from many foreign countries. Political or financial instability, terrorism, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity limitations, disruptions and costs, strikes and other work stoppages and other factors relating to international trade are beyond our control and could affect the availability and the price of our inventory. If we are unable to operate information systems and implement new technologies effectively, our business could be disrupted or our sales or profitability could be reduced. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information systems, including our ability to operate them effectively and successfully to implement new technologies, systems, controls and adequate disaster recovery systems. In addition, we must protect the confidentiality of our and our customers’ data. The failure of our information systems to perform as designed or our failure to implement and operate them effectively could disrupt our business or subject us to liability and thereby harm our profitability. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 9 Table of Contents 