Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following factors, as well as factors described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, or in other filings by the Company with the SEC, could negatively affect the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Other factors not presently known to us or that we presently believe are not material also could affect our business operations and financial results. Global economic conditions could adversely affect the Company’s business and financial results. Unfavorable economic conditions, including the impact of recessions in the United States and throughout the world, may negatively affect the Company’s business and financial results. These economic conditions could negatively impact (i) demand for our products, (ii) the mix of our products’ sales, (iii) our ability to collect accounts receivable on a timely basis from certain customers and (iv) the ability of certain suppliers to fill our orders for raw materials or other goods and services. A prolonged recession could result in decreased revenue, margins and earnings. 7 The loss of any large customer or a reduction in orders from any large customer could reduce our net sales and harm our operating results. Our operating results depend upon revenue from a few large customers. Our customers are not contractually obligated to purchase any fixed quantities of products, and they may stop placing orders with us at any time. We are subject to the risk of losing large customers or incurring significant reductions in sales to these customers. We rely on suppliers and contractors, and our business could be seriously harmed if these suppliers and contractors are not able to meet our requirements. We also rely on a limited number of suppliers and contractors for our Disposable Protective Apparel segment. If we lose the services of these key suppliers and contractors, or if they are not willing or able to satisfy our requirements, finding substitute suppliers or contractors may be time-consuming and would affect our results of operations in the near term. There are risks associated with international manufacturing which could have a significant effect on our business. We subcontract the manufacturing of some of our goods in Asia. These goods are manufactured pursuant to our specifications and quality assurance guidelines. Certain proprietary products are being made in Asia using materials supplied by us. We expect that subcontracting the manufacture of some products in Asia will represent a significant portion of our product sales, but we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain our subcontracting at current levels. If our ability to subcontract some of our manufacturing to Asia were to decline significantly, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. International manufacturing is subject to a number of risks, including the following: · changes in foreign government regulations and technical standards; · difficulty of protecting intellectual property; · requirements or preferences of foreign nations for the manufacture of domestic products; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar; and · political and economic instability Our success depends in part on protection of our intellectual property, and our failure to do so could adversely affect our competitive advantage, our brand recognition and our business. The success and competitiveness of our products depend in part upon our ability to protect our current and future technology, manufacturing process and brand names, including Alpha Pro Tech, through a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and unfair competition laws. We enter into confidentiality and non-disclosure of intellectual property agreements with our employees, consultants and certain vendors and generally control access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information without authorization or to develop similar information independently. Policing unauthorized use of intellectual property is difficult. The laws of other countries may afford little or no effective protection of our technology. We cannot assure you that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our technology or that agreements entered into for that purpose will be enforceable. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, either of which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our industry is highly competitive which may affect our ability to grow our customer base and generate sales. The markets for our products are intensely competitive. We currently experience competition from numerous companies in each of the markets in which we participate. Our major competitor in the medical and dental markets is Kimberly Clark of Fort Worth, Texas. Other large competitors include 3M Company, Johnson & Johnson, White Knight/Precept, Cardinal Health, Inc., and Medline Industries Inc. Our major competitors in the industrial and cleanroom market are Kimberly Clark, 3M, Kappler USA, Dupont and 8 Allegiance Health Care. For the medical bed pad products, Skil-care, Glenoit Mills and JT Posey Co. are our principal competitors, and in the pet bed market, principal competitors include Flexmat Corporation and Lazy Pet Company. Cardinal Health, Inc. and Medline Industries Inc. are distributors of our products. Many of our competitors are more established, benefit from greater market recognition and have substantially greater financial, development, manufacturing and marketing resources than we have. If we do not compete successfully with respect to these or other companies, it could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We are dependent upon key personnel. We are dependent upon the experience and ability of certain key personnel, including Sheldon Hoffman, Chief Executive Officer, and Alexander W. Millar, President. The loss of the services of either of those individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We do not expect to pay cash dividends. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. Therefore, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 