Risk Factors. Viad’s operating results are subject to known and unknown risks. As a result, past financial performance and historical trends may not be reliable indicators of future performance. Viad’s businesses and operating results are adversely affected by deterioration in general economic conditions. Viad’s businesses are sensitive to fluctuations in general economic conditions and are impacted by increases and decreases in the cost of materials and operating supplies. Operating results for the Marketing & Events U.S. and International segments depend largely on the number of exhibitions held and on the size of exhibitors’ marketing expenditures, which in turn depend partly on the strength of particular industries in which exhibitors operate. The number and size of exhibitions generally decrease when the economy weakens. Further, many exhibitors’ marketing budgets are partly discretionary, and are frequently among the first expenditures reduced by exhibitors when economic conditions deteriorate, resulting in reduced spending by exhibitors for the Company’s services. Marketing expenditures often are not increased until economic conditions improve. As a result, during periods of general economic weakness, the operating results for the Marketing & Events Group are adversely affected. Similarly, many of the retail shopping mall and lifestyle center clients of the Marketing & Events Group may reduce marketing expenditures when economic conditions deteriorate. Revenues from the Travel & Recreation Group businesses depend largely on the amount of disposable income that consumers have available for travel and vacations. This amount decreases during periods of weak general economic conditions. Viad’s results of operations are impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Viad conducts foreign operations primarily in Canada, the United Kingdom and, to a lesser extent, in certain other countries. The functional currency of Viad’s foreign subsidiaries is their local currency. Accordingly, for purposes of consolidation, Viad 6 Table of Contents translates the assets and liabilities of its foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars at the foreign exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date. The unrealized gains or losses resulting from the translation of these foreign denominated assets and liabilities are included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in Viad’s consolidated balance sheets. Significant fluctuations in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar may result in material changes to Viad’s net equity position reported in its consolidated balance sheets. Viad has not hedged its equity risk arising from the translation of foreign denominated assets and liabilities. In addition, for purposes of consolidation, the revenues, expenses and gains and losses related to Viad’s foreign operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the average foreign exchange rates for the period. As a result, Viad’s consolidated results of operations are exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, even when the functional currency amounts have not changed. Accordingly, fluctuations in the exchange rates affect overall profitability and historical period to period comparisons. Viad has not hedged its net earnings exposure arising from the translation of its foreign operating results. During 2010, $165.0 million of revenue and $9.5 million of operating income was derived through Canadian and United Kingdom operations of Viad’s Marketing & Events International segment. In addition, $64.2 million of 2010 revenue and $15.8 million of 2010 operating income generated in the Travel & Recreation Group segment was derived through its Canadian operations. For this segment, Canadian operations are largely dependent on foreign customer visitation, and accordingly, increases in the value of the Canadian dollar compared to other currencies could adversely affect customer volumes, and therefore, revenue and operating income in the Travel & Recreation Group segment. Exhibition rotation impacts overall profitability and makes comparisons between periods difficult. The business activities of the Marketing & Events Group are largely dependent upon the frequency, timing and location of exhibitions and events. Some large exhibitions are not held annually (they may be held once every two or three years or longer). Some large exhibitions may be held at a different time of year than when they have historically been held. In addition, the same exhibition may be held in different locations in different years, and may result in Viad generating lower margins in a given period if the exhibition shifts to a higher-cost city. As a consequence of these factors, the operating results for these businesses may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter or from year to year, making periodic comparisons difficult. Viad’s businesses are adversely affected by disruptions in the travel industry, particularly those adversely affecting the hotel and airline industries. The success of Viad’s businesses depends largely on the ability and willingness of people, whether exhibitors, exhibition attendees or others, to travel. Factors adversely affecting the travel industry as a whole, and particularly the airline and hotel industries, generally also adversely affect Viad’s businesses and results of operations. Factors that could adversely affect the travel industry as a whole include high or rising fuel prices, increased security and passport requirements, weather conditions, airline accidents and international political instability and hostilities. Unexpected events of this nature, or other events that may have an impact on the availability and pricing of air travel and accommodations, could adversely affect Viad’s businesses and results of operations. The failure of a large client to renew its services contract or the loss of business from convention facilities could adversely impact revenues. Although no single client accounts for more than five percent of the revenue of any of Viad’s reporting segments, the Marketing & Events U.S. and International segments have a relatively small number of large exhibition show organizers and large customer accounts. The loss of any of these large clients would adversely affect results of operations. In addition, revenues of the Marketing & Events Group may be significantly impacted if certain exhibition facilities choose to in-source electrical, plumbing and other services. When the Marketing & Events Group is hired as the official services contractor for an exhibition, the show organizer contractually grants an exclusive right to perform these electrical and plumbing services, subject in each case to the exhibition facility’s option to in-source the services (either by performing the services themselves or by hiring a separate service provider). Many exhibition facilities are under financial pressure as a result of conditions generally affecting their industry, including an increased supply of exhibitions space. As a result, some of these facilities have sought to in-source all or a large portion of these services. If a large number of facilities with which the Marketing & Events Group has these relationships seek to move these services in-house, Viad’s revenues and operating results could be adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents Viad’s key businesses are relationship driven. The business activities of the Marketing & Events U.S. and International segments are heavily focused on client relationships, and, specifically, on the close collaboration and interaction with the client. These relationships require the account team to become attuned to the client’s desires and expectations in order to provide top-quality service. Viad has in the past lost, and may in the future lose, important clients (and corresponding revenues) if a key member of the account team were to cease employment with the Company and take that customer to a competitor. Completed acquisitions may not perform as anticipated or be integrated as planned. Viad has acquired businesses and intends to continue to pursue opportunities to acquire businesses that could complement, enhance or expand Viad’s current businesses or offer growth opportunities to Viad. Any acquisition can involve a number of risks, including: the failure to achieve the financial and strategic goals and other benefits from the acquisition; the inability to successfully integrate the acquired business into Viad’s ongoing businesses; the inability to retain key personnel or customers of the acquired business; the inability to successfully integrate financial reporting and internal control systems; the disruption of Viad’s ongoing businesses and distraction of senior management and employees of Viad from other opportunities and challenges due to the integration of the acquired business; and the potential existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or known by Viad prior to closing the acquisition or not otherwise provided for through the purchase agreement. Viad’s businesses are seasonal, which causes results of operations to fluctuate and makes results of operations particularly sensitive to adverse events during peak periods. The Marketing & Events U.S. segment generally reports its highest revenues during the first quarter of each year, while the Marketing & Events International segment generally reports its highest revenues during the second quarter of each year. The Travel & Recreation Group businesses are also seasonal, experiencing peak activity during the second and third quarters; these quarters accounted for 84 percent of the segment’s 2010 revenues. Because of the seasonal nature of Viad’s businesses, adverse events or conditions occurring during peak periods could reduce the operating results of Viad’s businesses. Transportation disruptions and increases in transportation costs could adversely affect Viad’s businesses and operating results. The Marketing & Events U.S. and International segments rely on independent transportation carriers to send materials and exhibits to and from exhibitions, warehouse facilities and customer facilities. If they were unable to secure the services of these independent transportation carriers at favorable rates, it could have a material adverse effect on these businesses and their results of operations. In addition, disruption of transportation services because of weather-related problems, strikes, lockouts or other events could adversely affect their ability to supply services to customers and could cause the cancellation of exhibitions, which may have a material adverse effect on these businesses and operating results. Similarly, disruption of transportation services could adversely affect the ability of the Marketing & Events Group to supply time-sensitive holiday-themed exhibits and experiences to retail shopping mall and lifestyle center customers and could cause the cancellation of the exhibits and experiences. Union-represented labor creates an increased risk of work stoppages and higher labor costs. A significant portion of Viad’s employees are unionized and Viad’s businesses are party to approximately 100 collective-bargaining agreements, with approximately one-fourth requiring renegotiation each year. If the results of labor negotiations caused the Company to increase wages or benefits, which increases total labor costs, the increased costs could either be absorbed (which would adversely affect operating margins) or passed on to the customers, which may lead customers to turn to other vendors in response to higher prices. In either event, Viad’s businesses and results of operations could be adversely affected. Moreover, if the Company were unable to reach an agreement with a union during the collective bargaining process, the union may strike or carry-out other types of work stoppages. In such a circumstance, Viad might be unable to find substitute workers with the necessary skills to perform many of the services, or may incur additional costs to do so, which could adversely affect the Company’s businesses and results of operations. Obligations to fund multi-employer pension plans to which Viad contributes may have an adverse impact on operating results. Viad’s businesses contribute to various multi-employer pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering its union-represented employees. Viad’s contributions to these multi-employer plans in 2010 and 2009 totaled $15.3 million and $15.7 million, respectively. Viad does not directly manage these multi-employer plans, which are generally 8 Table of Contents managed by boards of trustees. Based upon the information available to Viad from plan administrators, management believes that several of these multi-employer plans are underfunded. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 requires pension plans underfunded at certain levels to reduce, over defined time periods, the underfunded status. In addition, under current laws, the termination of a plan, or a voluntary withdrawal from a plan by Viad, or a shrinking contribution base to a plan as a result of the insolvency or withdrawal of other contributing employers to such plan would require Viad to make payments to such plan for its proportionate share of the plan’s unfunded vested liabilities. Viad cannot determine at this time the amount of additional funding, if any, it may be required to make to these plans. However, plan contribution increases, if any, could have an adverse impact on Viad’s consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Viad competes in competitive industries and increased competition could negatively impact operating results. Viad is engaged in a number of highly competitive industries. Competition in the exhibition and events industry and the exhibits and experiential environments industries is driven by price and service quality, among other factors. To the extent competitors seek to gain or retain their market presence through aggressive underpricing strategies, Viad may be required to lower its prices and rates to avoid loss of related business, thereby adversely affecting operating results. In addition, if Viad is unable to anticipate and respond as effectively as competitors to changing business conditions, including new technologies and business models, Viad could lose market share to its competitors. If Viad were unable to meet the challenges presented by the competitive environment, results of operations could be adversely affected. Liabilities relating to prior and discontinued operations may adversely affect results of operations. Viad and its predecessors have a corporate history spanning over seven decades and involving approximately 2,400 previous subsidiaries in diverse businesses, such as the manufacturing of locomotives, buses, industrial chemicals, fertilizers, pharmaceuticals, leather, textiles, food and fresh meats. Some of these businesses used raw materials that have been, and may continue to be, the subject of litigation. Moreover, some of the raw materials used and the waste produced by these businesses have been and are the subject of U.S. federal and state environmental regulations, including laws enacted under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or its state law counterparts. In addition, Viad may incur other liabilities, resulting from indemnification claims involving sold subsidiaries, as well as from past operations of those of predecessors or their subsidiaries. Although the Company believes it has adequate reserves and sufficient insurance coverage to cover these future liabilities, results of operations could be materially affected if future events or proceedings contradict current assumptions, and reserves or insurance become inadequate. Terrorist attacks, natural disasters or other catastrophic events may have a negative effect on Viad’s business. The occurrence of catastrophic events ranging from natural disasters (such as hurricanes), health epidemics or pandemics, acts of war or terrorism, or the prospect of these events could disrupt Viad’s businesses. Such catastrophic events could impact our production facilities preventing us from timely completing exhibit fabrication and other projects for customers, and also could cause a disruption in the services we provide to our customers at convention centers, exhibition halls, hotels and other public venues. Such catastrophic events also could cause a cancellation of exhibitions and other events held in public venues. If the conditions arising from such events persist or worsen, Viad could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on its results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 