ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. General economic trends, as well as trends in advertising spending and competition, may reduce our advertising and circulation revenues. Our advertising revenues are subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic conditions and possible shifting of advertising spending amongst media. A decline in the level of business activity of certain of our advertisers, including U.S. and non-U.S. automobile manufacturers, could have an adverse effect on our revenues and profit margins. Additionally, high levels of condominium conversions limited existing and potential customers from Apartment Guide markets and decreased vacancy rates in markets with higher condominium conversions, constraining growth in our Consumer Source segments. Extraordinary weather conditions can impact newsstand sales, advertising revenues and other revenues like distribution. Any adverse impact of economic conditions on the Company is difficult to predict but it may result in reductions in advertising revenue. Additionally, if geopolitical events negatively impact the economy or advertising spending patterns change, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We have substantial indebtedness, which consumes a significant portion of the cash flow that we generate. A significant portion of our cash flow is dedicated to the payment of interest on indebtedness which reduces funds available for capital expenditures and business opportunities and may limit our ability to respond to adverse developments in our business or in the economy. Our debt instruments limit our business flexibility by imposing operating and financial restrictions on our operations. The agreements and indentures governing our indebtedness impose specific operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions impose conditions or limitations on our ability to, among other things: · change the nature of our business; · incur additional indebtedness; · create liens on our assets; · sell assets; · issue stock; · engage in mergers, consolidations or transactions with our affiliates; · make investments in or loans to specific subsidiaries; 10 · make guarantees or specific restricted payments; and · declare or make dividend payments on our common stock. Our failure to comply with the terms and covenants in our indebtedness could lead to a default under the terms of those documents, which would entitle the lenders to accelerate the indebtedness and declare all amounts owed due and payable. Moreover, the instruments governing almost all of our indebtedness contain cross-default provisions so that a default under any of our indebtedness may result in a default under our other indebtedness. If a cross-default occurs, the maturity of almost all of our indebtedness could be accelerated and become immediately due and payable. If that happens, we might not be able to satisfy our debt obligations, which could have a substantial adverse effect on our ability to continue as a going concern. We may not be able to comply with these restrictions in the future or, in order to comply with these restrictions, we may have to forego opportunities that might otherwise be beneficial to us. Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P., or KKR, has control of our common stock and has the power to elect all the members of our board of directors and to approve any action requiring stockholder approval. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 60% of the shares of our common stock were held by investment partnerships, of which KKR Associates, L.P., a New York limited partnership (“KKR Associates”), and KKR GP 1996 LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“KKR GP 1996”), each are an affiliate of KKR, the general partners. KKR Associates and KKR GP 1996 have sole voting and investment power with respect to these shares. Consequently, KKR Associates and KKR GP 1996 and their respective general partners and members, two of whom are also our directors, control us and have the power to elect all of our directors and approve any action requiring stockholder approval, including adopting amendments to our certificate of incorporation and approving mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. KKR Associates and KKR GP 1996 will also be able to prevent or cause a change of control at any time. If we do not continue to innovate and provide online products and services that are useful to users, our revenues and operating results could suffer. The Company has been and remains focused on building multiple online revenue streams, including subscriber acquisition, transactions that connect buyers and sellers, lead generation and pay-per-click and other online advertising. We believe that a key success factor of our business is our ability to successfully integrate our previously implemented Internet strategy and to continue to provide online products and services that people use for a high quality Internet experience. Our competitors are constantly developing innovations in search, online advertising and providing information to consumers. As a result, we must continue to invest resources in order to enhance our technology and our existing products and services and introduce new high-quality products and services that consumers can easily and effectively use. Increases in paper and postage costs may have an adverse impact on our future financial results. The price of paper is a significant expense relating to our print products and direct mail solicitations. The Company incurred paper price increases in both 2004 and 2005 after many years of stable or declining prices, with no increases during 2006. However, worldwide demand, strikes and extraordinary weather conditions could result in higher prices in 2007. We use the U.S. Postal Service for distribution of many of our products and marketing materials. Postal rates increased in 2006 by approximately 5.4%. Paper and postage cost increases may have an adverse effect on our future results. We may not be able to pass these cost increases through to our customers. 11 We depend on some important employees, and the loss of any of those employees may harm our business. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our key employees. In addition, our success is dependent on our ability to attract, train, retain and motivate high quality personnel, especially for our management, sales and editorial teams. The loss of the services of any of our key employees may harm our business. The Company does not have any key man life insurance. We may be unable to realize the benefits of our net operating loss carryforwards and, as a result, lose our future tax savings, which could have a negative impact on our liquidity and financial position. Net operating losses may be carried forward to offset federal and state taxable income in future years and eliminate income taxes otherwise payable on such taxable income, subject to certain adjustments. The amount of NOLs we have has not been validated by the IRS. The IRS could challenge the amount of the NOLs, which could result in an increase in liability in the future for income taxes. Based on current federal corporate income tax rates, our NOLs could provide a benefit to us, if fully utilized, of significant future tax savings. However, if we do not have sufficient taxable income in future years to use the tax benefits before they expire, we will lose the benefit of these NOL carryforwards permanently. Our inability to utilize available NOLs, if any, could result in the Company being required to pay substantial additional federal and state taxes and interest, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial position. Future legislation may result in our inability to realize the tax benefits of our NOLs. It is possible that legislation or regulations will be adopted that would limit our ability to use the tax benefits associated with our NOLs. However, we are not currently aware of any proposed changes in the tax laws or regulations that would materially impact our ability to use available NOLs, if any. Our use of NOL carryforwards could be limited by ownership changes. In addition to the general limitations on the carryback and carryforward of NOLs under Section 172 of the Internal Revenue Code (“Code”), Section 382 of the Code imposes further limitations on the utilization of NOLs by a corporation following various types of ownership changes which result in more than a 50 percentage point change in ownership of a corporation within a three-year period. Therefore, the future utilization of our NOLs may be subject to limitation for regular federal income tax purposes. We cannot be certain that the limitations of Section 382 will not limit or deny in full our future utilization of available NOLs, if any. Such limitation or denial could require us to pay substantial additional federal and state taxes and interest. Moreover, we cannot be certain that future ownership changes will not limit or deny in full our future utilization of all of available NOLs, if any. If we cannot utilize available NOLs, if any, we may be required to pay substantial additional federal and state taxes and interest. Such tax and interest liabilities may adversely affect our liquidity and financial position. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 12 