ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. General economic trends, as well as trends in advertising spending and competition, may reduce our advertising and circulation revenues. Our advertising revenues are subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic conditions and possible shifting of advertising spending amongst media. A decline in the level of business activity of certain of our advertisers, including U.S. and non-U.S. automobile manufacturers, has had an adverse effect on our revenues and profit margins. Additionally, high levels of condominium conversions limited existing and potential customers from Apartment Guide markets and decreased vacancy rates in markets with higher condominium conversions and in markets with significant levels of temporary residents caused by Hurricane Katrina, constraining growth in one of our segments. Extraordinary weather conditions, like Hurricane Katrina, can impact newsstand sales, advertising revenues and other revenues like distribution. Any adverse impact of economic conditions on the Company is difficult to predict but it may result in reductions in advertising revenue. Additionally, if geopolitical events negatively impact the economy or advertising spending patterns change, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our circulation revenues are subject to the risks arising from our ability to institute price increases for our print products and are affected by: competition from other publications and other forms of media available in the Company’s various markets; changing consumer lifestyles resulting in decreasing amounts of free time; declining frequency of regular magazine buying among young people and increasing costs of circulation acquisition. We have substantial indebtedness and other monetary obligations, which consume a substantial portion of the cash flow that we generate. A substantial portion of our cash flow is dedicated to the payment of interest on indebtedness which reduces funds available for capital expenditures and business opportunities and may limit our ability to respond to adverse developments in our business or in the economy. Our debt instruments limit our business flexibility by imposing operating and financial restrictions on our operations. The agreements and indentures governing our indebtedness impose specific operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions impose limitations on our ability to, among other things: · change the nature of our business; · incur additional indebtedness; · create liens on our assets; · sell assets; · issue stock; · engage in mergers, consolidations or transactions with our affiliates; · make investments in or loans to specific subsidiaries; · make guarantees or specific restricted payments; and · declare or make dividend payments on our common stock. 11 Our failure to comply with the terms and covenants in our indebtedness could lead to a default under the terms of those documents, which would entitle the lenders to accelerate the indebtedness and declare all amounts owed due and payable. Moreover, the instruments governing almost all of our indebtedness contain cross-default provisions so that a default under any of our indebtedness may result in a default under our other indebtedness. If a cross-default occurs, the maturity of almost all of our indebtedness could be accelerated and become immediately due and payable. If that happens, we would not be able to satisfy our debt obligations, which would have a substantial adverse effect on our ability to continue as a going concern. We may not be able to comply with these restrictions in the future, or in order to comply with these restrictions we may have to forgo opportunities that might otherwise be beneficial to us. Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P., or KKR, has control of our common stock and has the power to elect all the members of our board of directors and to approve any action requiring stockholder approval. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 60% of the shares of our common stock were held by investment partnerships, of which KKR Associates, L.P., a New York limited partnership (“KKR Associates”), and KKR GP 1996 LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“KKR GP 1996”), each an affiliate of KKR, are the general partners. KKR Associates and KKR GP 1996 have sole voting and investment power with respect to these shares. Consequently, KKR Associates and KKR GP 1996 and their respective general partners and members, three of whom are also our directors, control us and have the power to elect all of our directors and approve any action requiring stockholder approval, including adopting amendments to our certificate of incorporation and approving mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. KKR Associates and KKR GP 1996 will also be able to prevent or cause a change of control at any time. Increases in paper and postage costs may have an adverse impact on our future financial results. The price of paper is a significant expense relating to our print products and direct mail solicitations. The Company incurred paper price increases in both 2004 and 2005 after many years of stable or lower prices, and anticipates additional modest increases for 2006. However, worldwide demand, strikes and extraordinary weather conditions could result in higher prices in 2006. We use the U.S. Postal Service for distribution of many of our products and marketing materials. Postal rates increased in 2006 by approximately 5.4%. Paper and postage cost increases may have an adverse effect on our future results. We may not be able to pass these cost increases through to our customers. We depend on some important employees, and the loss of any of those employees may harm our business. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our key employees. In addition, our success is dependent on our ability to attract, train, retain and motivate high quality personnel, especially for our management, sales and editorial teams. The loss of the services of any of our key employees may harm our business. The Company’s management also is concerned about the intense competition in this economy for the hiring and retention of qualified financial personnel and the demands surrounding increased financial disclosure. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 12 