ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are many important factors that have affected, and in the future could affect, Seaway Valley Capital Corporation's business, including but not limited to the factors discussed below, which should be reviewed carefully together with other information contained in this report. Some of the factors are beyond our control and future trends are difficult to predict. The issuance of shares under our convertible debentures agreements could increase the total common shares outstanding by 99%. The holders of the debentures could convert such debentures into approximately 439,855,446 shares based on the closing market price on April 15, 2009. Such issuances would reduce the percentage of ownership of our existing common stockholders. This result could detrimentally affect our ability to raise additional equity capital. In addition, the sale of these additional shares of common stock may cause the market price of our stock to decrease. Seaway Valley Capital Corporation is not likely to hold annual shareholder meetings in the next few years. Delaware corporation law provides that members of the board of directors retain authority to act until they are removed or replaced at a meeting of the shareholders. A shareholder may petition the Delaware Court of Chancery to direct that a shareholders meeting be held. But absent such a legal action, the board has no obligation to call a shareholders meeting. Unless a shareholders meeting is held, the existing directors elect directors to fill any vacancy that occurs on the board of directors. The shareholders, therefore, have no control over the constitution of the board of directors, unless a shareholders meeting is held. Management does not expect to hold annual meetings of shareholders in the next few years, due to the expense involved. Thomas Scozzafava, who is currently the sole director of Seaway Valley Capital Corporation, was appointed to that position by the previous directors. If other directors are added to the Board in the future, it is likely that Mr. Scozzafava will appoint them. As a result, the shareholders of Seaway Valley Capital Corporation will have no effective means of exercising control over the operations of Seaway Valley Capital Corporation. 7 Investing in our stock is highly speculative and you could lose some or all of your investment. The value of our common stock may decline and may be affected by numerous market conditions, which could result in the loss of some or the entire amount invested in our stock. The securities markets frequently experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that affect market prices for securities of companies generally and very small capitalization companies such as us in particular. The volatility of the market for Seaway Valley Capital Corporation common stock may prevent a shareholder from obtaining a fair price for his shares. The common stock of Seaway Valley Capital Corporation is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. It is impossible to say that the market price on any given day reflects the fair value of Seaway Valley Capital Corporation, since the price sometimes moves up or down by 50% or more in a week's time. A shareholder in Seaway Valley Capital Corporation who wants to sell his shares, therefore, runs the risk that at the time he wants to sell, the market price may be much less than the price he would consider to be fair. The absence of independent directors on our board of directors may limit the quality of management decision making. Tom Scozzafava is the only member of our Board of Directors. There is no audit committee of the board and no compensation committee. This situation means that Mr. Scozzafava will determine the direction of our company without the benefit of an objective perspective and without the contribution of insights from outside observers. This may limit the quality of the decisions that are made. In addition, the absence of independent directors in the determination of compensation may result in the payment of inappropriate levels of compensation. Our common stock qualifies as a "penny stock" under SEC rules which may make it more difficult for our stockholders to resell their shares of our common stock. Our common stock trades on the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, the holders of our common stock may find it more difficult to obtain accurate quotations concerning the market value of the stock. Stockholders also may experience greater difficulties in attempting to sell the stock than if it were listed on a stock exchange or quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market or the NASDAQ Capital Market. Because our common stock does not trade on a stock exchange or on the NASDAQ Global Market or the NASDAQ Capital Market, and the market price of the common stock is less than $5.00 per share, the common stock qualifies as a "penny stock." SEC Rule 15g-9 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that recommend the purchase or sale of penny stocks to persons other than those who qualify as an "established customer" or an "accredited investor." This includes the requirement that a broker-dealer must make a determination on the appropriateness of investments in penny stocks for the customer and must make special disclosures to the customer concerning the risks of penny stocks. Application of the penny stock rules to our common stock affects the market liquidity of the shares, which in turn may affect the ability of holders of our common stock to resell the stock. Only a small portion of the investment community will purchase "penny stocks" such as our common stock. Seaway Valley Capital Corporation common stock is defined by the SEC as a "penny stock" because it trades at a price less than $5.00 per share. Seaway Valley Capital Corporation common stock also meets most common definitions of a "penny stock," since it trades for less than $1.00 per share. Many brokerage firms will discourage their customers from purchasing penny stocks, and even more brokerage firms will not recommend a penny stock to their customers. Most institutional investors will not invest in penny stocks. In addition, many individual investors will not consider a purchase of a penny stock due, among other things, to the negative reputation that attends the penny stock market. As a result of this widespread disdain for penny stocks, there will be a limited market for Seaway Valley Capital Corporation common stock as long as it remains a "penny stock." This situation may limit the liquidity of your shares. The Company’s growth strategy of new store openings and acquisitions could create challenges it may not be able to adequately meet. The Company intends to continue to pursue growth for the foreseeable future, and to evolve existing business to promote growth. The Company’s future operating results will depend largely upon its ability to promote its respective products, open and operate stores and restaurants successfully and to profitably manage a larger business. Operation of a greater number of new stores, moving or expanding store locations and expansion into new markets may present competitive and merchandising challenges that are different from those currently encountered by the Company in existing stores and markets. There can be no assurance that the Company’s expansion will not adversely affect the individual financial performance of its existing stores or the overall results of operations. Further, as the number of stores and the Company’s products market share increases, the Company may face risks associated with market saturation of its products and concepts. Finally, there can be no assurance that Hackett’s will successfully achieve expansion targets or, if achieved, that planned expansion will result in profitable operations. This growth strategy requires improving the Company’s operations, and the Company may not be able to do this sufficiently to effectively prevent negative impact on its business and financial results. In order to manage the Company’s planned expansion, among other things, the Company will need to locate suitable store sites, negotiate acceptable lease terms, obtain or maintain adequate capital resources on acceptable terms, source sufficient levels of inventory, hire and train store managers and sales associates, integrate new stores into existing operations and maintain adequate distribution center space and information technology and other operations systems. If the Company is unable to accomplish all of these tasks in a cost-effective manner, its business plan will not be successful. 8 The Company needs to continually evaluate the adequacy of its management information and distribution systems. Implementing new systems and changes made to existing systems could present challenges management does not anticipate and could negatively impact the Company’s business. Management cannot anticipate all of the changing demands that expanding and changing operations will impose on business, systems and procedures, and the failure to adapt to such changing demands could have a material adverse effect on results of operations and financial condition. Failure to timely implement initiatives necessary to support expanding and changing operations could materially impact business. The success of the Company’s businesses depends on establishing and maintaining good relationships with mall operators and developers, and problems with those relationships could make it more difficult for the Company to expand to certain sites or offer certain products. Any restrictions on the Company’s ability to expand its products’ marketshare or locate to new store sites, remodel or relocate stores where management feels it necessary or to offer a broad assortment of merchandise could have a material adverse effect on business, results of operations and financial condition. If relations with developers or distributors becomes strained, or the Company otherwise encounters difficulties in leasing store sites or finding new outlets for its products, the Company may not grow as planned and may not reach certain revenue levels and other operating targets. In particular, risks associated with these relationships are more acute given recent consolidation in the retail store industry, and Hackett’s has seen certain increases in expenses as a result of such consolidation that could continue. If Hackett’s fails to offer a broad selection of products and brands that customers find attractive, Hackett’s revenues could decrease. In order to meet its strategic goals, Hackett’s must successfully offer, on a continuous basis, a broad selection of appealing products that reflect customers’ preferences. Consumer tastes are subject to frequent, significant and sometimes unpredictable changes. To be successful in Hackett’s line of business, product offerings must be broad and deep in scope and affordable to a wide range of consumers whose preferences may change regularly. Management cannot predict with certainty that Hackett’s will be successful in offering products that meet these requirements. If Hackett’s product offerings fail to satisfy customers’ tastes or respond to changes in customer preferences, revenues could decline. In addition, any failure to offer products that satisfy customers’ preferences could allow competitors to gain market share. Hackett’s comparable store sales are subject to fluctuation resulting from factors within and outside Hackett’s control, and lower than expected comparable store sales could impact business and Seaway’s stock price. A variety of factors affects comparable store sales including, among others, the timing of new product releases and fashion trends; the general retail sales environment and the effect of the overall economic environment; Hackett’s ability to efficiently source and distribute products; changes in Hackett’s merchandise mix; ability to attain exclusivity and certain related licenses; competition from other retailers; opening of new stores in existing markets and Hackett’s ability to execute its business strategy efficiently. To date, Hackett’s comparable store sales results have fluctuated significantly in the past, and management believes that such fluctuations will continue. Economic conditions could change in ways that reduce the Company’s sales or increase its expenses. Certain economic conditions affect the level of consumer spending, including, among others, employment levels, salary and wage levels, interest rates, taxation and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Hackett’s is also dependent upon the continued popularity of malls and strip malls as a shopping destination, the ability of other mall tenants and other attractions to generate customer traffic and the development of new malls. A further slowdown in the United States economy or an uncertain economic outlook could lower consumer spending levels and cause a decrease in mall traffic or new mall development, each of which would adversely affect growth, sales results and financial performance. Changes in laws, including employment laws and laws related to Hackett’s merchandise, could make conducting Hackett’s business more expensive or change the way Hackett’s does business. In addition to increased regulatory compliance requirements, changes in laws could make ordinary conduct of Hackett’s business more expensive or require Hackett’s to change the way it does business. For example, changes in federal and state minimum wage laws could raise the wage requirements for certain of Hackett’s associates, which would likely cause management to reexamine Hackett’s entire wage structure for stores. Other laws related to employee benefits and treatment of employees, and privacy, could also negatively impact Hackett’s such as by increasing benefits costs like medical expenses. Moreover, changes in product safety or other consumer protection laws could lead to increased costs for certain merchandise, or additional labor costs associated with readying merchandise for sale. It is often difficult to plan and prepare for potential changes to applicable laws. Timing and seasonal issues could negatively impact Hackett’s financial performance for given periods. Hackett’s quarterly results of operations fluctuate materially depending on, among other things, the timing of store openings and related pre-opening and other startup expenses, net sales contributed by new stores, increases or decreases in comparable store sales, releases of new products ,and shifts in timing of certain holidays, changes in merchandise mix and overall economic and political conditions. Hackett’s business is also subject to seasonal influences, with heavier concentrations of sales during the back-to-school, Halloween and holiday (defined as the week of Thanksgiving through the first few days of January) seasons and other periods when schools are not in session. The holiday season has historically been the single most important selling season. Management believes that in the locations where its stores are located, the importance of the summer vacation and back-to-school seasons and to a lesser extent, the spring break season as well as Halloween, all reduce the dependence on the holiday selling season, but this will not always be the case to the same degree. As is the case with many retailers of apparel, accessories and related merchandise, Hackett’s typically experiences lower net sales in the first fiscal quarter relative to other quarters. 9 Hackett’s has many important vendor and license partner relationships, and Hackett’s ability to obtain merchandise or provide it through license agreements could be hurt by changes in those relationships, and events harmful to Hackett’s vendors or license partners could impact results of operations. Hackett’s financial performance depends on Hackett’s ability to purchase desired merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. Although Hackett’s has many sources of merchandise, substantially all of Hackett’s music/pop culture-licensed products are available only from vendors that have exclusive license rights. In addition, small, specialized vendors, some of which create unique products primarily for us, supply certain of Hackett’s products. Hackett’s smaller vendors generally have limited resources, production capacities and operating histories and some of Hackett’s vendors have restricted the distribution of their merchandise in the past. Hackett’s generally has no long-term purchase contracts or other contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to new products. There can be no assurance that Hackett’s will be able to acquire desired merchandise in sufficient quantities on acceptable terms in the future. Any inability to acquire suitable merchandise, or the loss of one or more key vendors, may have a material adverse effect on Hackett’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Competitors’ internet sales could hinder Hackett’s overall financial performance. Hackett’s sells merchandise that also can be purchased over the Internet through the other retail websites. Hackett’s Internet operations do not yet include commerce, and not having such operations could pose risks to Hackett’s overall business. Hackett’s is dependent for success on a few key executive officers. Its inability to retain those officers would impede its business plan and growth strategies, which would have a negative impact on business and the potential value of any investment in Seaway. Loss of key people or an inability to hire necessary and significant personnel could hurt Hackett’s business. Hackett’s performance depends largely on the efforts and abilities of senior management. The sudden loss of either’s services or the services of other members of Hackett’s management team could have a material adverse effect on business, results of operations, and financial condition. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that Mr. Scozzafava or the existing Hackett’s management team will be able to manage growth or be able to attract and retain additional qualified personnel as needed in the future. Hackett’s can give no assurance that it can find satisfactory replacements for these key executive officers at all, or on terms that are not unduly expensive or burdensome to Hackett’s. Although Hackett’s intends to issue stock options or other equity-based compensation to attract and retain employees, such incentives may not be sufficient to attract and retain key personnel. There is a risk Hackett’s could acquire merchandise without full rights to sell it, which could lead to disputes or litigation and hurt Hackett’s financial performance and stock price. Hackett’s and its partners purchase licensed merchandise from a number of suppliers who hold manufacturing and distribution rights under the terms of certain licenses. Hackett’s generally relies upon vendors’ representations concerning manufacturing and distribution rights and do not independently verify whether these vendors legally hold adequate rights to licensed properties they are manufacturing or distributing. If Hackett’s or its partners acquire unlicensed merchandise, Hackett’s could be obligated to remove such merchandise from stores, incur costs associated with destruction of merchandise if the distributor is unwilling or unable to reimburse Hackett’s, and be subject to liability under various civil and criminal causes of action, including actions to recover unpaid royalties and other damages. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on business, results of operations and financial condition. Hackett’s faces intense competition, including competition from companies with significantly greater resources than Hackett’s. If Hackett’s is unable to compete effectively with these companies, Hackett’s market share may decline and its business could be harmed. The retail industry is highly competitive with numerous competitors, many of whom are well-established. Most of Hackett’s competitors have significantly greater financial, technological, managerial, marketing and distribution resources than does Hackett’s. Their greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to compete more effectively on the basis of price and more quickly offer new products. In addition, new companies may enter the markets in which Hackett’s competes, further increasing competition in the industry. Hackett’s may not be able to compete successfully in the future, and increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced profit margins, loss of market share and an inability to generate cash flows that are sufficient to maintain or expand the number of Hackett’s stores, which would adversely impact the trading price of Seaway’s common shares. Hackett’s future operating results may fluctuate and cause the price of Seaway’s common stock to decline. Hackett’s expects that Hackett’s revenues and operating results will continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to various factors, many of which are beyond Hackett’s control. The factors that could cause Hackett’s operating results to fluctuate include, but are not limited to: · seasonality of the business; · price competition from other retailers; · general price increases by suppliers and manufacturers; · Hackett’s ability to maintain and expand Hackett’s distribution relationships; · increases in the cost of advertising; · unexpected increases in shipping costs or delivery times; · Hackett’s ability to build and maintain customer loyalty; · the introduction of new services, products and strategic alliances by us and Hackett’s competitors; · the success of Hackett’s brand-building and marketing campaigns; · government regulations, changes in tariffs, duties, and taxes; · Hackett’s ability to maintain, upgrade and develop Hackett’s retail stores; · changes in Hackett’s store leasing costs; · the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to expansion of Hackett’s business, operations and infrastructure; and · general economic conditions as well as economic conditions specific to the retail sector. 10 If Hackett’s revenues or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of Seaway Valley Capital Corporation’s common stock could significantly decline. Hackett’s growth and operating results could be impaired if it is unable to meet its future capital needs. Hackett’s may need to raise additional capital in the future to: · fund more rapid expansion; · acquire or expand into new retail locations, warehousing facilities or office space; · maintain, enhance and further develop Hackett’s information technology systems; · develop new product categories or enhanced services; · fund acquisitions; or · respond to competitive pressures. If Hackett’s raises additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of stockholders will be diluted. Furthermore, any new securities could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of the common stock. Hackett’s currently does not have any commitments for additional financing. Hackett’s cannot be certain that additional financing will be available when and to the extent required or that, if available, it will be on acceptable terms. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, Hackett’s may not be able to fund its expansion, develop or enhance Hackett’s products or services or respond to competitive pressures. Change in public attitude and drinking preferences. There is an increasing public concern over alcohol-related social problems, including drunk driving, underage drinking and health consequences from the misuse of alcohol, including alcoholism. This may adversely affect consumption of alcoholic beverages. Consumers drinking preferences may also change due to availability of a variety of products in the craft brew segment. We believe that any changes in governmental regulation and/or shift in consumer preference may have an adverse impact on our operations. Advertising and marketing efforts. The sales and marketing programs used by us to generate demand for our products may be unsuccessful. In the future this could lead to lowering prices that we charge for our products from our historical levels, depending on competitive factors in our various markets. To increase demand for our products, we have participated in price promotions with our wholesalers and retail customers in most of our markets. The number of markets in which we participate in price promotions and the frequency of such promotions may change depending upon market conditions. There can be no assurance however that our price promotions will be successful in increasing demand for our products. Litigation In the future we may be subject to litigation that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. At any given time, we are subject to claims and actions incidental to the operation of our business. The outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted. If a plaintiff were successful in a claim against our Company, we could be faced with the payment of a material sum of money. If this were to occur, it could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. ITEM 