ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Below, we have described our present view of certain important risk factors. This discussion of risk factors contains “forward-looking statements,” as discussed on page one of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Report or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in this Report. 5 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We depend on large property management companies in the apartment leasing sector of the residential real estate industry for a majority of our revenue, and any industry developments that adversely affect the number and value of leasing transactions generated could adversely impact our financial results. The return on investment for our large property management company advertisers depends upon the comparison of how many leases are being generated for the managed communities in a particular local market, and the value of such leases, to the amount charged for our advertising. Many of the factors affecting the number and value of lease transactions are beyond our control. In markets where occupancy levels are extraordinarily high or extraordinarily low, the management company’s return on investment can be adversely affected, and the management company may choose to decrease the level of advertising, which could adversely affect our revenue. Our new home guides and related websites depend on the new home sales sector of the residential real estate industry, which is cyclical. Approximately 15.7% of our 2008 advertising revenue was generated from sales of advertising products to new home builders in the residential real estate industry. This sector, which is cyclical, directly affects the success of our New Homes division. The return on investment for our new home builder advertisers depends on the success rate of actual sales that are closed in comparison to the advertising expenses paid. If our advertisers experience lower return on investment because actual sales decline for reasons beyond our control, they may choose to decrease their advertising budget, which would adversely affect our revenue. The United States economy is currently experiencing its worst downturn in the residential real estate industry in over 50 years. The duration of this downturn, as is true of most trends in the real estate industry, is unpredictable, and as a result, our prospects in this area are also unpredictable. An economic recession, unfavorable taxation laws and regulations, higher credit standards, unavailability of mortgage loans, increased interest rates, increased unemployment, lower consumer confidence or lower wages can cause consumers to reduce their activity in the residential real estate industry, thus negatively impacting local new home sales markets. We rely on our proprietary distribution network as a competitive advantage, and our historical business model for this business involves relatively high fixed costs that we may be unable to adjust in a timely manner in response to a reduction in revenue. Historically, the primary function of DistribuTech has been to ensure priority placement for PRIMEDIA publications and to reduce our overall distribution costs. Revenue from third-party customers who pay DistribuTech for distribution services contributes to this reduction in costs. Our DistribuTech business continues to experience a significant loss of revenue from third-party customers, particularly those who publish free resale home and automobile sales publications, which are scaling back or ceasing operations or providing an Internet-only product. As part of our distribution business, we enter into agreements with various retail chains for exclusive rights of distribution. Most of these agreements extend beyond one year in duration and contribute to relatively high fixed costs within this business. We are undertaking strategic initiatives to reduce the cost structure of our DistribuTech business, while maintaining our competitive advantage. However, our efforts may not ultimately achieve anticipated business goals, and, if we fail to achieve these goals, this business could be materially adversely affected. The market for our products and services is highly competitive. The markets for our products and services are disbursed throughout the United States. Generally, other print and online apartment and new home resources for the consumer represent our main competitors. To a lesser extent, we also compete with traditional newspapers and yellow pages. 6 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Innovations by competitors or other market participants may increase the level of competition in the markets in which we operate. This can include product, pricing or marketing innovations, new or improved services, technology advances, or new modes of doing business that enhance the consumer’s ability to shop and compare offerings from multiple companies, among other initiatives. Our ability to react to such advances and navigate new competitive environments is important to our success. In addition, some of our current and potential competitors may have greater financial, technical, operational and marketing resources than we have. Competitive pressures may also force prices for our services to decrease, which may adversely affect us. If any of our relationships with Internet search websites terminate, or if such websites’ methodologies are modified, traffic to our websites and corresponding consumer origination volumes could decline. We depend, in part, on various Internet search websites, such as Google, MSN and Yahoo!, and other websites to direct a significant amount of traffic to our websites. Search websites typically provide two types of search results, algorithmic and purchased listings. Algorithmic listings cannot be purchased and, instead, are determined and displayed solely by a set of formulas designed by search engine companies. Other listings can be purchased and are displayed if particular word searches are performed on a search engine. We rely on both algorithmic and purchased search results, as well as advertising on other Internet websites, to direct a substantial share of the visitors to our websites and the advertiser customers we serve. Our ability to maintain the flow of visitors directed to our websites by search websites and other Internet websites is not entirely within our control. For example, search websites frequently revise their algorithms in an attempt to optimize their search result listings. Changes in the methodologies used by search websites to display results could cause our websites to receive less favorable placements, which could reduce the number of users who link to our websites from these search websites. We may also make poor decisions regarding the purchase of search results or the placement of advertisements on other Internet websites, which could also reduce the number of users directed to our websites. Any reduction in the number of users directed to our websites would negatively affect our ability to earn revenue. If traffic on our websites declines, we may need to resort to more costly sources to replace lost traffic, and such increased expense could adversely affect our business and profitability. If we are unable to meet rapid changes in technology, our services and technology and systems may become obsolete. The Internet and e-commerce are constantly changing. Due to the costs and management time required to introduce new services and enhancements, we may not be able to respond in a timely manner to competitive innovations. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our online businesses. Further, to remain competitive, we must meet the challenges of the introduction by our competitors of new services using new technologies or the introduction of new industry standards and practices. In addition, the vendors we use to support our technology may not provide the level of service we expect or may not continue to provide their product or services on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we fail to meet any of these potential changes or our vendors fail to provide the necessary support to our technology, our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. Our success and growth depend, to a significant degree, upon the protection of our intellectual property rights. As a media company, we have a significant intellectual property portfolio, especially copyrights and trademarks, and have allocated considerable resources toward intellectual property maintenance, prosecution and enforcement. For example, we hold and maintain or have pending applications for numerous copyrights and trademarks in connection with our various products and services, such as Apartment Guide. In addition, we also continuously develop and create proprietary software to enhance our ability to effectively and efficiently update 7 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements the listings in our online and print publications. We may be unable to deter infringement or misappropriation of our data and other proprietary information, detect unauthorized use or take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Any unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive for us to do business and consequently harm our business. If we are unable to obtain or maintain key website addresses, our ability to operate and grow our business may be impaired. Our website addresses, or domain names, are critical to our business. However, the regulation of domain names is subject to change, and it may be difficult for us to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to ours, that infringe our trademarks or that otherwise decrease the value of our brands. If we are unable to obtain or maintain key domain names for the various areas of our business, our ability to operate and grow our business may be impaired. Increases in paper costs may have an adverse impact on our future financial results. The price of paper is a significant expense relating to our print products. We incurred paper price increases in both 2004 and 2005, after many years of stable or declining prices, with no increases during 2006. However, we experienced increased paper costs at the end of 2007 and 2008. We expect paper prices to only slightly decrease in 2009. Any future paper cost increases will have an adverse effect on our future results to the extent we are unable to offset these increases through adjustment of production metrics or by passing these increases through to our customers. Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. (“KKR”) has control of our common stock and has the power to elect all the members of our Board of Directors and to approve any action requiring stockholder approval. As of March 2, 2009, approximately 59.1% of the outstanding shares of our common stock were held by investment partnerships of which KKR Associates, L.P. and KKR GP 1996 LLC are the general partners. KKR Associates and KKR GP 1996 have sole voting and investment power with respect to these shares. Consequently, KKR Associates and KKR GP 1996 and their respective general partners and members, two of whom are also on our Board of Directors, control us and have the power to elect all of our directors and approve any action requiring stockholder approval, including adopting amendments to our certificate of incorporation and approving mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. KKR Associates and KKR GP 1996 will also be able to prevent or cause a change of control at any time. Our stock price is volatile. Our common stock price has experienced substantial volatility in the past and may remain volatile in the future. Volatility can arise as a result of a number of the factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section, as well as divergence between our actual or anticipated financial results and published expectations of analysts, and announcements that we, our competitors or our customers may make. If we are unable to meet the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) continued listing requirements, the NYSE may delist our common stock, which could negatively affect the price of the common stock and your ability to sell the common stock. We previously announced on November 24, 2008 that the NYSE had notified us that we were considered “below criteria” specifically because our average total market capitalization was less than $75 million over a consecutive 30 trading-day period. This required us to submit a plan that demonstrated our ability to achieve compliance with the continued listing standards within 18 months of receipt of the notice. On February 17, 2009, we announced that the New York Stock Exchange had notified us that it had accepted our proposed plan for continued listing on 8 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements the NYSE. As a result of the acceptance, our common stock will continue to be listed on the NYSE, pending quarterly reviews by the NYSE’s Listing and Compliance Committee to ensure progress against the plan. In the future, we may not be able to meet the continued listing requirements of the NYSE. If we are unable to satisfy the NYSE criteria for continued listing, our common stock would be subject to delisting. Trading, if any, in our common stock would thereafter be conducted on another exchange or quotation system. As a consequence of any such delisting, a stockholder would likely find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the prices for our common stock. We may be unable to realize the benefits of our net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”), and, as a result, lose our future tax savings, which could have a negative impact on our liquidity and financial position. NOLs may be utilized to offset federal and state taxable income in future years and eliminate income taxes otherwise payable on such taxable income, subject to certain adjustments. The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”), or state taxing authorities could challenge the amount of the NOLs, which could result in increases in future income tax liabilities. Based on current federal and state corporate income tax rates, our NOLs could provide a benefit to us, if fully utilized, of significant future tax savings. However, if we do not have sufficient taxable income in future years to use the tax benefits before they expire, we will lose the benefit of these NOLs permanently. Our inability to utilize available NOLs, if any, could require us to pay substantial additional federal and state taxes and interest, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial position. Future legislation may result in our inability to realize the tax benefits of our NOLs. It is possible that legislation or regulations will be adopted that would limit our ability to use the tax benefits associated with our NOLs. However, we are not currently aware of any proposed changes in the tax laws or regulations that would materially and adversely impact our ability to use available NOLs, if any. Our use of NOL carryforwards could be limited by ownership changes. In addition to the general limitations on the carryback and carryforward of NOLs under Section 172 of the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”), Section 382 of the Code imposes further limitations on the utilization of NOLs by a corporation following various types of ownership changes which result in more than a 50 percentage point change in ownership of a corporation within a three year period. Therefore, the future utilization of our NOLs may be subject to limitation for regular federal income tax purposes. We cannot be certain that the limitations of Section 382 will not limit or deny in full our future utilization of available NOLs, if any. Such limitation or denial could require us to pay substantial additional federal and state taxes and interest. Moreover, we cannot be certain that future ownership changes will not limit or deny in full our future utilization of all of available NOLs. If we cannot utilize available NOLs, if any, we may be required to pay substantial additional federal and state taxes and interest. Such tax and interest liabilities may adversely affect our liquidity and financial position. The soundness of financial institutions could adversely affect us. We have relationships with several financial institutions as lenders under our credit facility and engage in transactions with other counterparties in the financial services industry. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, financial institutions or the financial services industry generally, could result in losses or defaults by these institutions. We believe that available credit under our revolving credit facility was recently effectively reduced by $12.0 million as a result of the bankruptcy filing of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., the parent company of Lehman Brothers, Inc., which is a participating lender in the credit facility. In the event that the volatility of the financial markets further adversely affects these financial institutions, we may be unable to access our credit 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements facility or complete financing transactions as intended, which could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Our credit agreement limits our business flexibility by imposing operating and financial restrictions on our operations. Our credit agreement imposes specific operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions impose conditions or limitations on our ability to, among other things: • change the nature of our business; • incur additional indebtedness; • create liens on our assets; • sell assets; • issue stock; • engage in mergers, consolidations or transactions with our affiliates; • make investments in or loans to specific subsidiaries; • make guarantees or specific restricted payments; and • declare or make dividend payments on our common stock. Our failure to comply with the terms and covenants in our credit agreement could lead to a default under the terms of such agreement, which would entitle the lenders to accelerate the indebtedness and declare all amounts owed due and payable. If that occurred, we might not be able to refinance otherwise satisfy our debt obligations, which could have a substantial adverse effect on our ability to continue as a going concern. We may not be able to comply with these restrictions in the future, or, in order to comply with these restrictions, we may have to forego opportunities that might otherwise be beneficial to us. Our accounting policies and methods are key to how we report our financial condition and results of operations and may require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. Accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). Management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management’s judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments and contingencies. A variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset or reducing a liability. We have established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. Because of the uncertainty of estimates about these matters, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements. See Item 7—”Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” to the consolidated financial statements in this Report for more information. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 