ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Below, we have described our present view of certain important risk factors. This discussion of risk factors contains “forward-looking statements,” as discussed on page 1 of this Report. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Report or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes contained elsewhere in this Report. The results and impact of our announcement that we are exploring strategic alternatives cannot be determined. In January 2011, we announced that we are exploring strategic alternatives, including a possible sale of the Company. There can be no assurance that our review of strategic alternatives will result in any agreement or transaction, or that if an agreement is executed, that a transaction will be consummated. We do not intend to disclose developments with respect to this process while it is continuing. The process of exploring strategic alternatives may be disruptive to our business operations, create uncertainties with current and potential customers, employees and business relationships, which could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the market price of our stock may be volatile as we consider strategic alternatives, and volatility may persist or be increased if and when a decision to pursue a particular alternative (or no alternative) is announced. Affiliates of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. (“KKR”) have control of a majority of our outstanding common stock and have the power to elect all the members of our Board of Directors and to approve any action requiring stockholder approval, including potentially any strategic alternatives discussed above. As of February 28, 2011, approximately 58.8% of the outstanding shares of our common stock were held by investment partnerships of which KKR Associates, L.P. and KKR GP 1996 LLC are the general partners. KKR Associates and KKR GP 1996 have sole voting and investment power with respect to these shares. Consequently, KKR Associates, L.P. and KKR GP 1996 LLC and their respective general partners and members, including those on our Board of Directors, control us and have the power to elect all of our directors and approve any action requiring stockholder approval, including adopting amendments to our certificate of incorporation and approving mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. KKR Associates, L.P. and KKR GP 1996 LLC will also be able to prevent or cause a change of control at any time. 6 Table of Contents Our stock price is volatile. Our common stock price has experienced substantial volatility in the past and may remain volatile in the future. Volatility can arise as a result of a number of the factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section, as well as divergence between our actual or anticipated financial results and published expectations of analysts; announcements that we, our competitors or our customers may make; and the relatively small portion of our outstanding shares that is in the hands of public investors, as opposed to our officers, directors and controlling-interest investors. In addition and as also discussed above, the market price of our stock may be volatile as we consider strategic alternatives, and volatility may persist or be increased if and when a decision to pursue a particular alternative (or no alternative) is announced. Deterioration in general economic conditions, and in the specific industries in which we operate, have adversely affected and are expected to continue to adversely affect advertising revenue. National and local market economic conditions affect the overall levels of advertising revenue. Negative economic conditions, including a U.S. recession and the nationwide and local downturn in the housing markets, have adversely affected and are expected to continue to adversely affect our overall level of advertising revenue, and a failure of economic conditions to improve in our markets could adversely affect our future business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on large property management companies in the apartment leasing sector of the residential real estate industry for a majority of our revenue, and any economic or industry developments that adversely affect the number and value of leasing transactions generated could adversely impact our financial results. The return on investment for our large property management company advertisers depends upon the comparison of how many leases we are generating for the managed communities in a particular local market, and the value of such leases, to the amount charged for our advertising. Many of the factors affecting the number and value of lease transactions are beyond our control. In markets where occupancy levels are extraordinarily high or extraordinarily low, the management company’s return on investment can be adversely affected, and the management company may choose to decrease the level of advertising, which could adversely affect our revenue. The effects of occupancy rates can be mitigated or exacerbated by effective rent levels, which are essentially average rent amounts after giving effect to free months of rent and other incentives. Our new homes division depends on the new home sales sector of the residential real estate industry, which is cyclical. Approximately 6.7% of our 2010 advertising revenue was generated from sales of advertising products to new home builders in the residential real estate industry. This sector, which is cyclical, directly affects the success of our New Homes division. The return on investment for our new home builder advertisers depends on the success rate of actual sales that are closed in comparison to the advertising expenses paid. If our advertisers experience lower return on investment because actual sales decline for reasons beyond our control, they tend to decrease their advertising budget, which adversely affects our revenue. Economic recession, unfavorable taxation laws and regulations, higher credit standards, unavailability of mortgage loans, increased interest rates, increased unemployment, lower consumer confidence or lower wages can cause consumers to reduce their activity in the residential real estate industry, thus negatively impacting local new home sales markets. The United States economy is currently experiencing its worst downturn in the residential real estate industry in over 50 years. The duration of this downturn, as is true of most trends in the real estate industry, is unpredictable, and as a result, our prospects in this area are also unpredictable. 7 Table of Contents The markets for our products and services are highly competitive. The markets for our products and services are disbursed throughout the United States. Generally, other online and print apartment and new home-targeted resources for the consumer represent our main competitors. To a lesser extent, we also compete with traditional newspapers and yellow pages. Competition for advertising is generally based on audience or traffic levels and demographics, price, service and advertising results. Competition from all relevant media and services affects our ability to attract and retain consumers and advertisers and to maintain or increase our advertising rates. This competition has intensified as a result of the continued developments of digital media technologies. Distribution of advertising over the Internet, as well as through mobile phones and other devices, continues to increase in popularity. As a result, a shift from print advertising to online alternatives has contributed to significant declines in print advertising. The majority of our current product offerings are built upon integrated media packages that feature online, mobile and print components. However, we are continuing to aggressively develop and market our online products and services, and we could experience a decline in advertising revenue if we are unable to migrate clients that have a preference for our print advertising to our website offerings in volumes or at rates sufficient to offset declines in print advertising. If we are not successful in growing our digital products and services, our business, financial condition and prospects will be adversely affected. Our growth depends, to a significant degree, upon the development of our digital products and services. Accordingly, our ability to grow and succeed over the long term depends on various factors, including, among other things: • increasing our online traffic and attracting and retaining visitors to our websites, which may be adversely affected by search engines (including Google, the primary search engine directing traffic to our websites) changing the algorithms responsible for directing search queries to web pages; • attracting advertisers to our websites, which depends partly on our ability to generate online traffic and partly on the rate at which users engage in lease or sale transactions with advertisers using our websites; • maintaining appropriate levels of advertising rates on our websites, which will depend, in part, on the market position of our brands; • exploiting new and existing technologies to distinguish our products and services from those of our competitors and developing new content, products and services, which may move in unanticipated directions due to the development of competitive alternatives, rapid technological change, regulatory changes and shifting market preferences; • investing funds and resources in online opportunities, in which some of our existing competitors and possible additional entrants may have greater operational, financial and other resources than we do or may be better positioned to compete for certain opportunities; and • attracting and retaining talent for critical positions. Even if we continue to develop our digital products and services, we may not be successful in generating or increasing revenue from these products or services due to increasing competition and economic conditions, and our business, financial condition and prospects would be adversely affected. If we are unable to meet rapid changes in technology, our services and technology and systems may become obsolete. The Internet and e-commerce are constantly changing. Due to the costs and management time required to introduce new services and enhancements, we may not be able to respond in a timely manner to competitive innovations. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of 8 Table of Contents our online businesses. Further, to remain competitive, we must meet the challenges of the introduction by our competitors of new services using new technologies or the introduction of new industry standards and practices. In addition, the vendors we use to support our technology may not provide the level of service we expect or may not continue to provide their product or services on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we fail to meet any of these potential changes, or our vendors fail to provide the necessary support to our technology, our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. Our success and growth depend, to a significant degree, upon the protection of our intellectual property rights. As a media company, we have a significant intellectual property portfolio, especially copyrights and trademarks, and have allocated considerable resources toward intellectual property maintenance, prosecution and enforcement. For example, we hold and maintain or have pending applications for numerous copyrights and trademarks in connection with our various products and services, such as Apartment Guide. In addition, we also continuously develop and create proprietary software to enhance our ability to effectively and efficiently update the listings in our online and print directories. We may be unable to deter infringement or misappropriation of our data and other proprietary information, detect unauthorized use or take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Any unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive for us to do business and consequently harm our business. We may be unable to realize the benefits of our net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”), and, as a result, lose our future tax savings, which could have a negative impact on our liquidity and financial position. NOLs may be utilized to offset federal and state taxable income in future years and reduce income taxes otherwise payable on such taxable income, subject to certain adjustments. The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) or state taxing authorities could challenge the amount of the NOLs, which could result in increases in future income tax liabilities. Based on current federal and state corporate income tax rates, our NOLs could provide a benefit to us, if fully utilized, of significant future tax savings. However, if we do not have sufficient taxable income in future years to use the tax benefits before they expire, we will lose the benefit of these NOLs permanently. Our inability to utilize available NOLs could require us to pay substantial additional federal and state taxes and interest, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial position. Future legislation may result in our inability to realize the tax benefits of our NOLs. It is possible that legislation or regulations will be adopted in the future that would limit our ability to use the tax benefits associated with our aggregate federal NOLs of approximately $445.9 million. Our use of NOL carryforwards could be limited by ownership changes. In addition to the general limitations on the carryback and carryforward of NOLs under Section 172 of the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”), Section 382 of the Code imposes further limitations on the utilization of NOLs by a corporation following various types of ownership changes, generally resulting in more than a 50 percentage point change in ownership of a corporation within a three year period. Therefore, the future utilization of our NOLs may be subject to limitation for regular federal income tax purposes. We cannot be certain that the limitations of Section 382 will not limit or deny in full our future utilization of available NOLs, if any. Such limitation or denial could require us to pay substantial additional federal and state taxes and interest. Moreover, we cannot be certain that future ownership changes will not limit or deny in full our future utilization of all available NOLs. If we cannot utilize available NOLs, if any, we may be required to pay substantial additional federal and state taxes and interest. Such tax and interest liabilities may adversely affect our liquidity and financial position. 9 Table of Contents The soundness of financial institutions could adversely affect us. We have relationships with several financial institutions as lenders under our credit facility and engage in transactions with other counterparties in the financial services industry. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, financial institutions or the financial services industry generally, could result in losses or defaults by these institutions. As a result of Lehman Brothers, Inc. ceasing to be a participating lender in our credit facility, the total capacity under our revolving credit facility was reduced by $12.0 million to $88.0 million in 2009. In the event that the volatility of the financial markets further adversely affects financial institutions that are lenders under our credit facility, we may be unable to access our credit facility or complete financing transactions as intended, which could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Our credit agreement limits our business flexibility by imposing operating and financial restrictions on our operations. Our credit agreement imposes specific operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions impose conditions or limitations on our ability to, among other things: change the nature of our business; incur additional indebtedness; create liens on our assets; sell assets; issue stock; engage in mergers, consolidations or transactions with our affiliates; make investments in or loans to specific subsidiaries; make guarantees or specific restricted payments; and declare or make dividend payments on our common stock. Our failure to comply with the terms and covenants in our credit agreement could lead to a default under the terms of such agreement, which would entitle the lenders to accelerate the indebtedness and declare all amounts owed due and payable. If that occurred, we might not be able to refinance or otherwise satisfy our debt obligations, which could have a substantial adverse effect on our ability to continue as a going concern. We may not be able to comply with these restrictions in the future, or, in order to comply with these restrictions, we may have to forego opportunities that might otherwise be beneficial to us. Our accounting policies and methods are key to how we report our financial condition and results of operations and may require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. Accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). Management has identified certain accounting policies and estimates as being critical because they require management’s judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments and contingencies. A variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is obtained either when earning revenue, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset or reducing a liability. We have established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. Because of the uncertainty of estimates about these matters, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements. See Item 7—“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” to the consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this Report for more information. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 10 Table of Contents 