Item 1A, Risk Factors as well as risks discussed elsewhere in this report; • each of the matters discussed in Item 3, Legal Proceedings; • our ability to recruit and retain qualified MTs, MEs and other employees; • changes in law, including, without limitation, the impact HIPAA will have on our business; • the impact of our new services and products on the demand for our existing services and products; 15 Table of Contents • our increased dependence on speech recognition technology, which we license, but do not own; • our current dependence on medical transcription for a significant portion of our technology-enabled clinical documentation services; • our ability to expand our customer base; • infringement on the proprietary rights of others; • our ability to diversify into other businesses; • our increased dependence on CBay Systems & Services, Inc. as the exclusive provider of medical transcription performed in Asia, the current location of all our medical transcription and medical editing work performed outside of North America; • our ability to effectively integrate newly-acquired operations; • competitive pricing and service feature pressures in the clinical documentation industry and our response to those pressures; • difficulties relating to our significant management turnover; and • general conditions in the economy and capital markets. Many of these factors are beyond our ability to predict or control. In addition, as a result of these and other factors, our past financial performance should not be relied on as an indication of future performance. The cautionary statements referred to in this section also should be considered in connection with any subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements that may be issued by us or persons acting on our behalf. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. In light of these risks and uncertainties, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this report might not occur. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee future results, events, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Set forth below are certain important risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition and cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us. Although we believe that we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our performance or financial condition. More detailed information regarding certain risk factors described below is contained in other sections of this report. Our ability to expand our business and properly service our customers depends on our ability to effectively manage our domestic production capacity and our only offshore transcription labor partner (CBay Systems & Services, Inc.), including our ability to recruit, train and retain qualified MTs and MEs and maintain high standards of quality service in our operations, which we may not be able to do. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to effectively manage our domestic production capacity including our ability to attract and retain qualified MTs and MEs who can provide accurate medical transcription. There is currently a shortage of qualified MTs and MEs in the U.S., and an increasing need for more real-time turnaround of transcribed reports has created industry-wide demand for quality MTs and MEs. As a result, competition for skilled MTs and MEs is intense. We have active programs in place to attract domestic MTs and MEs. We must also effectively manage our only current offshore transcription labor partner, CBay Systems & Services, Inc.. However, this strategy may not alleviate any issues caused by the shortage. Because medical transcription is a skilled position in which experience is valuable, we require that our MTs and MEs have substantial experience or receive substantial training before being hired. Competition may force us to increase the compensation and benefits paid to our MTs and MEs, which could reduce our operating margins and profitability. In addition, failure to recruit and retain qualified MTs and MEs may have an adverse effect on our ability to service our customers, manage our production capacity and maintain our high standards of quality service. An inability to hire and retain a sufficient number of qualified MTs and MEs in the U.S., could have a negative impact on our ability to grow. If the electronic health records (EHR) companies produce solutions acceptable to large hospital systems for the creation of electronic clinical documentation that are not based on the conversion of voice to text, the overall demand for medical 16 Table of Contents transcription services could be reduced. EHR companies’ solutions for the collection of clinical data typically require physicians to directly enter and organize patient information through templates thereby eliminating or dramatically reducing the use of dictation or transcription. Although the EHR market is in the early stages of development and is rapidly evolving, a number of market entrants have introduced or developed products and services that are competitive with one or more components of the solutions we offer. We expect that additional companies will continue to enter this market. In new and rapidly evolving industries, there is significant uncertainty and risk as to the demand for, and market acceptance of, recently introduced solutions for the creation of electronic clinical documentation. In the event that such solutions are successful and gain wide acceptance, the overall demand for medical transcription services could be reduced. In the event that markets develop more quickly than expected, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our success will depend on our ability to support existing technologies as well as to adopt and integrate new technology into our DEP, to improve our production capabilities and expand the breadth of our service offerings, as well as our ability to address any unanticipated problems with our information technology systems, which we may not be able to do quickly, or at all. Our ability to remain competitive in the clinical documentation industry is based, in part, on our ability to develop, utilize and support technology in the services that we provide to our customers to improve our production capabilities and expand the breadth of our service offerings. As our customers advance technologically, we must be able to effectively integrate our DEP with their systems and provide advanced data collection technology. We plan to develop and integrate new technologies into our current service structure to give our customers high-quality and cost-effective services. We also may need to develop technologies to provide service systems comparable to those of our competitors as they develop new technology. If we are unable to effectively develop and integrate new technologies, we may not be able to expand our technology and service offerings or compete effectively with our competitors. In addition, if the cost of developing and integrating new technologies is high, we may not realize our expected return on investment. Our business, particularly our DEP and our speech recognition software, depends on the continuous, effective, reliable, and secure operation of our computer hardware, software, and Internet applications and related tools and functions. A substantial portion of our business involves the transfer of large amounts of data to and from our DEP via the Internet. Also, we rely on a global enterprise software system to operate and manage our business. Our DEP, and its underlying technologies, are designed to operate and to be accessible by our customers 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Network and information systems, the Internet and other technologies are critical to our business activities. Substantially all of our transcription services are dependent upon the use of network and information systems, including the use of our DEP and our speech recognition software, which is licensed from a third party. We have periodically experienced short term outages with our DEP that have not significantly disrupted our business. We may experience interruption at our data centers or client support facilities. We perform data center and/or hosting services for certain clients, including the storage of critical patient and administrative data. We have invested in reliability features such as multiple power feeds, multiple backup generators, high-availability server and storage systems and redundant telecommunications lines, as well as technical and physical security safeguards, and structured our operations to reduce the likelihood of disruptions. Periodic risk assessments are conducted to ensure additional risks are identified and appropriately mitigated. However, complete failure of all local public power and backup generators, impairment of all telecommunications lines, a “concerted denial of service cyber attack”, damage (environmental, accidental, intentional or pandemic) to the buildings, the equipment inside the buildings housing our data centers, the client data contained therein and/or the personnel trained to operate such facilities could cause a disruption in operations and negatively impact clients who depend on us for data center and system support services. Any interruption in operations at our data centers and/or client support facilities could damage our reputation, cause us to lose existing clients, hurt our ability to obtain new clients, result in revenue loss, create potential liabilities for our clients and us and increase insurance and other operating costs. Due to the critical nature of clinical documentation to our customers’ operations, potential customers may be reluctant to outsource or change service providers as a result of the cost and potential for disruption in services, which may inhibit our ability to attract new customers. The up-front cost involved in changing clinical documentation service providers or converting from an in-house medical transcription department to an outsourced provider may be significant. Many customers may prefer to remain with their current 17 Table of Contents service provider or keep their medical transcription in-house rather than incur these costs or experience a potential disruption in services as a result of changing service providers. Also, as the maintenance of accurate medical records is a critical element of a healthcare provider’s ability to deliver quality care to its patients and to receive proper and timely reimbursement for the services it renders, potential customers may be reluctant to outsource such an important function. If our intellectual property is not adequately protected, we may lose our market share to our competitors and be unable to operate our business profitably. Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology and our ability to license and renew third-party intellectual property. We regard some of the software underlying our services, including our DEP and interfaces, as proprietary, and we rely primarily on a combination of trade secrets, patent, copyright and trademark laws, confidentiality agreements, contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, if our intellectual property is not adequately protected, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our intellectual property or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary causing us to lose market share and rendering us unable to operate our business profitably. There can be no assurance that our proprietary information will not be independently developed by competitors. There can be no assurance that the intellectual property we own or license will provide competitive advantages or will not be challenged or circumvented by our competitors. We are dependent on third party speech recognition software incorporated in certain of our technologies, and impaired relations with such third party or the inability to enhance such third party software over time could harm our business. We license speech recognition software from Nuance Communications, Inc. (Nuance) that we incorporate into our DEP, SpeechQ for Radiology™ and SpeechQ for General Medicine™. Nuance is one of our competitors. Our ability to continue to sell and support SpeechQ for Radiology™ and SpeechQ for General Medicine™ depends on continued support from Nuance. In November 2009, we entered into extensions of the agreements pursuant to which we license speech recognition software from Nuance. The terms of these agreements extend until June 30, 2015. Thereafter, upon written notice to Nuance, we have the right to extend the agreements with Nuance for two successive terms of five years each (each a Renewal Term) on the same terms (except pricing terms) and conditions the applicable agreement in effect at the end of the then-current initial term or Renewal Term. Nuance may terminate the agreements in the event of certain defaults by us. If the licenses were to become unavailable on commercially reasonable terms or at all, some of this technology would be difficult to replace. The loss of these licenses could significantly impact our business until we identify, license and integrate, or develop equivalent software. If we are required to enter into license agreements with third parties for replacement technology, we could face higher royalty payments and our products may lose certain attributes or features. In addition, our speech recognition software may be impacted if errors occur in the software. It may be more difficult for us to correct any defects in the software because the software is not within our control. Accordingly, our business could be adversely affected in the event of any errors in the software. There can be no assurance that Nuance will continue to invest the appropriate levels of resources in the software to maintain and enhance the capabilities of the software. We compete with many others in the market for clinical documentation services which may result in lower prices for our services, reduced operating margins and an inability to maintain or increase our market share and expand our service offerings. We compete with other outsourced clinical documentation service companies in a very fragmented market that includes national, regional and local service providers, as well as service providers with global operations. These companies offer services that are similar to ours and compete with us for both customers and qualified MTs and MEs. We also compete with the in-house medical transcription staffs of our customers. While we attempt to compete on the basis of fast, predictable turnaround times and consistently high accuracy and document quality, all offered at a reasonable price, there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against our competitors or timely implement new products and services. Many of our competitors attempt to differentiate themselves by offering lower priced alternatives to our outsourced medical transcription services. Increased competition and cost pressures affecting the healthcare markets in general may result in lower prices for our services, reduced operating margins and the inability to maintain or increase our market share. As technology evolves, including the continued refinement of speech recognition technology, health information technology providers may provide services that replace, or reduce the need for medical transcription. Furthermore, companies that provide 18 Table of Contents services complementary to medical transcription, such as electronic medical records, coding and billing, may expand the services they provide to include medical transcription. Current and potential competitors may have financial, technical and marketing resources that are greater than ours. As a result, competitors may be able to respond more quickly to evolving technological developments or changing customer needs or devote greater resources to the development, promotion or sale of their technology or services than we can. In addition, competition may increase due to consolidation of medical transcription companies. As a result of such consolidation, there may be a greater number of providers of medical transcription services with sufficient scale, service mix and financial resources to compete with us to provide services to larger, more complex organizations. Current and potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships with third parties to increase their ability to attract our current and potential customers. We may pursue future transactions, including the proposed acquisition of certain assets of Spheris Inc., which could require us to incur debt and assume contingent liabilities and expenses, and we may not be able to effectively integrate new operations. A significant portion of our historical growth has occurred through transactions, and we may pursue transactions in the future. Transactions involve risks that the combined businesses will not perform in accordance with expectations and that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of the combined businesses will prove incorrect. We cannot guarantee that if we acquire Spheris or decide to pursue other future transactions, we will be able to identify attractive opportunities or successfully integrate Spheris or such other future businesses or assets with our existing business. In addition, we cannot guarantee the ability to retain customers of Spheris or such other future businesses or assets we acquire. Future transactions may involve high costs and may result in the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, interest expense, amortization expense or periodic impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets as well as significant charges relating to integration costs. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully integrate any future transaction with our existing business or that any combined businesses will be profitable. The successful integration of new businesses depends on our ability to manage these new businesses effectively. The successful integration of future transactions may also require substantial attention from our senior management and the management of the combined businesses, which could decrease the time that they have to service and attract customers. In addition, because we may actively pursue a number of opportunities simultaneously, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, complications and delays, including difficulties in employing sufficient staff and maintaining operational and management oversight. Our inability to complete the integration of any future transaction with our existing business in a timely and orderly manner could reduce our net revenues and negatively impact our results of operations. If we fail to comply with extensive contractual obligations and applicable laws and government regulations governing the handling of patient identifiable medical information, including those imposed on us and our customers in connection with HIPAA, we could suffer material losses or be negatively impacted as a result of our and/or our customers’ exposure to material penalties and liabilities under HIPAA as amended by the HITECH Act. As part of the operation of our business, our customers provide us with certain patient identifiable medical information. Although many regulatory and governmental requirements do not directly apply to our operations, we and our hospital and other healthcare provider customers must comply with a variety of requirements related to the handling of patient information, including laws and regulations protecting the privacy, confidentiality and security of PHI. Most of our customers are covered entities under HIPAA and, in many of our relationships, we function as a business associate. In particular, the provisions of HIPAA require our customers to have business associate agreements in place with a clinical documentation company such as ours under which we are required to appropriately safeguard the PHI we create or receive on their behalf. Further, we and our customers are required to comply with HIPAA security regulations that require us and them to implement certain administrative, physical and technical safeguards to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability of EPHI. We are required by regulation and contract to protect the security of EPHI that we create, receive, maintain or transmit for our customers consistent with these regulations. To comply with our regulatory and contractual obligations, we may have to reorganize processes and invest in new technologies. We also are required to train personnel regarding HIPAA requirements. If we, or any of our MTs or subcontractors, are unable to maintain the privacy, confidentiality and security of the PHI that is entrusted to us, we and/or our customers could be subject to civil and criminal fines and sanctions and we could be found to have breached our contracts with our customers. We are bound by business associate agreements with covered entities that require us to use and disclose PHI in a manner consistent with HIPAA in providing services to those covered entities. The HITECH Act, which was enacted into law on February 17, 2009 as part of the ARRA, enhances and strengthens the HIPAA Privacy and Security Standards and makes certain provisions applicable to “business associates” of covered entities. As of February 17, 2010, some provisions of HIPAA apply directly to us. In addition, the HITECH Act creates new security breach notification requirements The direct applicability of the new HIPAA Privacy and Security provisions will require us to incur additional costs and may restrict our business operations. In addition, these new provisions will 19 Table of Contents result in additional regulations and guidance issued by the United States Department of Health and Human Services and will be subject to interpretation by various courts and other governmental authorities, thus creating potentially complex compliance issues for us and our customers. As of February 17, 2010, we are directly subject to HIPAA’s criminal and civil penalties for breaches of our privacy and security obligations. Proposed legislation and possible negative publicity may impede our ability to utilize global service capabilities. Certain stated laws that have recently been enacted and bills introduced in recent sessions of the U.S. Congress have sought to restrict the transmission of personally identifiable information regarding a U.S. resident to any foreign affiliate, subcontractor or unaffiliated third party without adequate privacy protections or without providing notice of the transmission and an opportunity to opt out. Some of the proposals would require patient consent. If enacted, these proposed laws would impose liability on healthcare businesses arising from the improper sharing or other misuse of personally identifiable information. Some proposals would create a private civil cause of action that would allow an injured party to recover damages sustained as a result of a violation of the new law. A number of states have also considered, or are in the process of considering, prohibitions or limitations on the disclosure of medical or other information to individuals or entities located outside of the U.S. Further, as a result of this negative publicity and concerns regarding the possible misuse of personally identifiable information, some of our customers have contractually limited our ability to use MTs located outside of the U.S. CBaySystems Holdings beneficially owns approximately 69.5% of our outstanding common stock, and its interests may conflict with the interests of MedQuist and our other shareholders. CBaySystems Holdings beneficially owns approximately 69.5% of our outstanding common stock. CBaySystems Holdings has the ability to cause the election of all of the members of our board of directors, the appointment of new management and the approval of actions requiring the approval of our shareholders, including amendments to our certificate of incorporation and mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets. The directors elected by CBaySystems Holdings will be able to make decisions affecting our capital structure, including decisions to issue additional capital stock, implement stock repurchase programs and declare dividends. The interests of CBaySystems Holdings could conflict with our interests and the interests of our other shareholders. Our debt obligations include restrictive covenants which may restrict our operations or otherwise adversely affect us. Under the Credit Agreement which we entered into in August 2009, we must abide by certain financial and other restrictive covenants that, among other things, require us to maintain certain minimum levels of EBITDA and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. Upon a breach of any of the covenants in the Credit Agreement the lender could declare us to be in default of the Credit Agreement and could further require any outstanding borrowings under the Credit Agreement to be immediately due and payable, and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. We currently do not have any borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 