D. Risk Factors Any evaluation of the Company should take into account, among other things, the following factors, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Viability of Business Strategy Spectrum was founded in 1987 as a developer and distributor of general-purpose signal processing products. In 2000, the Company ceased new investment in its general-purpose signal processing product line to focus on the development of products targeted at defense electronics and packet-voice applications. A combination of significant component supply risk and general market uncertainty led the Company to cease investment in its packet-voice product line in January 2004. Spectrum today is a leading supplier of software defined radio products for defense electronics and satellite communications applications. This market includes military communications, public safety, signals intelligence, surveillance, electronic warfare and satellite communications applications. The Company continues to field increasingly more integrated and ruggedized solutions that are designed to reduce the cost, schedule and technical risk of its customers’ development initiatives and production programs. Spectrum continues to generate revenues from its general-purpose signal processing products and packet-voice engineering services, however, the Company’s decision to cease investment in these product and service lines has resulted, and is expected to continue to result, in declining revenues from these products and services. Conversely, the Company’s focus on defense electronics and satellite communications applications is expected to result in increasing revenues from its flexComm product line over time. There can be no assurance, however, that flexComm product revenues nor its future product and service revenues will fully offset the decline in its general-purpose and packet-voice product and service revenues and, to date, the Company’s revenues from general-purpose and packet-voice products have declined faster than its revenues from flexComm products have increased. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2006, the Company had $1,658,000 of available cash and cash equivalents and $3,450,000 of working capital. During the three years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006, the Company incurred losses of $3,075,000, $746,000 and $3,062,000 respectively and experienced negative cash flows from operations of $361,000, $1,226,000 and $1,579,000, respectively. The Company historically has met its operating and capital requirements through cash flows from operations, borrowings under its line of credit facility, Technology Partnerships Canada (“TPC”) funding and from funds generated by the sale of its equity securities. In March 2004, the Company entered into a funding agreement with Technology Partnerships Canada, which provided for the financing of one-quarter of the Company’s total eligible research and development expenses. Eligible expenses are those used to develop new technologies focused on software defined radio products for use in defense applications. The agreement provided for a maximum funding commitment by TPC of Cdn$8,300,000 ($7,123,000) through to December 31, 2006. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had claimed or accrued funding of Cdn$4,407,000 ($3,586,000) under the agreement. The Company has submitted a request to TPC for an extension of the funding commitment under its agreement from its original expiration of December 31, 2006 to December 31, 2008. As described above, the Company recently entered into an agreement to be acquired by Vecima Networks Inc. On March 23, 2007, the Company also entered into an agreement with Vecima providing for a revolving line of credit facility of up to Cdn$2,900,000 ($2,489,000) to be made available by Vecima to the Company. The facility provides for interest at the Canadian prime rate plus 5.5%. Borrowings shall not exceed 80% of the Company’s gross qualified and eligible accounts receivable. Borrowings are secured by a first-priority blanket security interest in all corporate assets. The credit facility does not contain any financial covenants. The credit facility expires on June 30, 2007. 7 As described below, the proposed acquisition of the Company by Vecima is subject to certain conditions and may not be consummated. Should this occur, it is highly likely that the Company’s revolving credit facility would not be renewed beyond its June 30, 2007 expiration date and any amounts it had borrowed under that facility would be immediately due and payable at that time. The Company believes that it will likely require additional financial resources to meet its working capital and capital requirements for the next twelve months if the pending acquisition of the Company by Vecima is not consummated. If the Company issues additional equity and/or debt securities to meet its future liquidity requirements, the terms of any future equity financings may be dilutive to the Company’s shareholders and the terms of any debt financings may contain restrictive covenants negatively affecting stockholders. The Company’s ability to successfully obtain financing will depend on the status of its future business prospects as well as conditions prevailing in the capital markets. The Company’s ability to secure further financing could be hampered by its pending delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market, which is likely to have occurred by the time of any abandonment of the Vecima transaction. Efforts to raise capital could be further hampered by the inclusion by the Company’s accountants of a “going concern” note in their report on the Company’s financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006. While the Company has no reason to expect any such reaction, its need for additional capital resources could create concerns on the part of its creditors, vendors, customers and others about whether it will be able to fulfill its contractual obligations and otherwise continue to operate its business, which in turn could result in a further tightening of liquidity. Uncertainty Surrounding the Transaction with Vecima Networks Inc. The proposed acquisition of the Company by Vecima is subject to certain closing conditions that, if not satisfied or waived, will result in the transaction not being completed. The proposed acquisition of the Company by Vecima is subject to customary conditions to closing, including the receipt of required regulatory approvals. Many of the conditions to the closing of the transaction are outside of the control of the Company. If any condition to the closing of the transaction is not satisfied or, if permissible, waived, the transaction will not be completed. If the Company does not complete the transaction, the price of its common shares may fluctuate to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the transaction will be completed. The Company will also be obligated to pay certain professional fees and related expenses in connection with the transaction, whether or not the transaction is completed. In addition, the Company has expended, and will continue to expend, significant management resources in an effort to complete the transaction. If the transaction is not completed, the Company will have incurred significant costs, including the diversion of management resources, for which it will have received little or no benefit. Disruption to the Business Related to the Pendency of the Transaction with Vecima Networks Inc. Whether or not the transaction with Vecima is completed, the announcement and pendency of the transaction could cause disruptions in the Company’s business. Specifically: • current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the Company, which might adversely affect the Company’s ability to execute on its business plan, retain key personnel and/or hire new staff; and • the attention of management may be directed toward the completion of the transaction, rather than toward the execution of existing business plans. Uncertainty pertaining to the Company’s NASDAQ Listing On July 26, 2006 the Company received notice from the NASDAQ Stock Market that it was not in compliance with the minimum $1.00 closing bid price requirement set forth in Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4) for continued Capital Market listing. In accordance with Marketplace Rule 4310 (c)(8)(D), NASDAQ provided the Company with 180 calendar days, or until January 22, 2007, to regain compliance. 8 On January 23, 2007, the Company received a notice of a NASDAQ Staff Determination citing that the Company is not in compliance with Rule 4310(c)(4) of the NASDAQ Marketplace rules. As a result, the common shares of the Company potentially were subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market effective February 1, 2007 unless the Company filed an appeal of the Staff’s determination to a NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel, during which appeal the delisting would be stayed. On March 15, 2007, the Company presented its appeal to the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel. The Company expects to receive notification of the Panel’s decision within 30 days of the hearing date. Going Concern Note In their report dated February 3, 2007, KPMG LLP stated that the Company’s financial statements were prepared assuming that the Company would continue as a going concern. The Company’s ability to continue as a going concern is an issue raised as a result of its recurring losses from operations and its net capital deficiency. The Company continues to experience net operating losses. The Company’s ability to continue as a going concern is subject to continued market acceptance of its products, its ability to secure sufficient funding to continue the development of its business, the continued support of creditors and shareholders and the achievement of profitable operations. Accordingly, unless the Company continues to raise working capital or revenue grows to support its business plan, the Company may be unable to continue in business as a stand-alone entity. The Company’s continued net operating losses and shareholders’ deficit increases the difficulty in meeting such goals and there can be no assurances that such methods will prove successful. Variability of Quarterly and Annual Operating Results The Company’s revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter as a result of a number of factors. These factors include: • the volume and timing of orders received; • the general demand for commercial-off-the-shelf radio subsystems; • the success achieved by the Company’s customers in developing and marketing their products; • the budget and procurement cycles associated with government programs; • the mix of product and engineering service revenues; • the timing of new product introductions by both the Company and its competitors; • pricing by both the Company and its competitors; • the Company’s ability to develop and market new products and services; • the Company’s ability to manufacture its products in a timely manner, at high quality levels and at commercially reasonable costs; • the availability and cost of electronic components; • the timing and levels of sales and marketing expenditures and general economic conditions; and • changes in the financial condition or budget of significant customers. Contract Performance The Company’s earnings and margins depend on its ability to perform under its contracts. The Company’s contracts require management to make various assumptions and projections about the outcome of future events. These projections can include future labor productivity and availability, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the cost and availability of materials, the impact of delayed performance and the timing of product deliveries. If there is a significant change in one or more of these assumptions, circumstances or estimates, or if the Company is unable to control the costs incurred in performing under these contracts, the profitability of one or more of these contracts may be adversely affected. Risks and Uncertainties Associated with Defense Related Contracts The Company enters into contracts both directly and indirectly with the United States government and foreign governments. As a result, the Company’s contracts and subcontracts are subject to the following risks associated with government contracts: • delays in funding or incremental funding; • reprioritization of orders that may affect scheduled delivery dates; 9 • reduction or modification in the event of changes in government priorities and policies, or as the result of budgetary constraints or political changes; and • other factors that are not under the Company’s control. In addition, contracts with the United States and foreign governments and their prime contractors and subcontractors are subject to termination at the convenience of the government or contractor if the program itself has been terminated. Termination for convenience provisions generally entitle the Company to recover costs incurred, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to termination, however, there can be no assurance in this regard. As the Company contracts to supply goods and services to the United States and foreign governments and their prime contractors and subcontractors, it is also subject to other risks, including: • contract suspensions; • the reopening of bidding processes; • changes in government policies or regulations; • preference of government and domestic prime contractors to purchase mission critical systems from domestic suppliers; and • other political factors. Finally, consolidation among defense industry contractors has resulted in fewer contractors with increased bargaining power relative to the Company. There can be no assurance that this increased negotiating power of contractors or any of the other factors listed above will not adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations in the future. Reliance on Significant Customers In 2006 and 2005, the Company’s top ten customers together accounted for approximately 70% of the Company’s sales for each year and, in 2006, the Company’s top two customers accounted for approximately 20% and 14%, respectively of the Company’s sales for the year. Although the Company is seeking to broaden its customer base, it expects to continue to depend on a small number of significant customers. Due to the length of time required to replace lost business, any significant reduction in orders from the Company’s major customers may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Technological Change, Risk of the Design-In Process and Competition The market for the Company’s products is characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. Competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the products and services offered. Certain competitors may have a technology or market advantage with respect to products that relate primarily to that competitor’s specific area of expertise. Other companies participating in the signal processing industry may enter the markets in which Spectrum competes. The process whereby a customer evaluates the Company’s products for development and testing purposes in support of a specific program can last years. Should the Company’s products not adapt to changes in technology during this time period and/or fail to meet customer program requirements, or should there be any significant delay in either the Company’s or customer’s developments or introductions, these elements could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business as the Company’s design-ins may not produce production quantity revenues. In the case of the defense industry, more new product development activities may be undertaken than new products actually deployed. Hence, the Company may commit significant resources to design-ins that do not result in significant orders. Certain trends in signal processing technology, such as native signal processing and silicon integration (system-on-a-chip), could displace certain of the Company’s products, or the Company may not be able to develop new products in response to the trends that achieve market acceptance. Delays or difficulties associated with new product introductions or product enhancements may also affect orders. Reliance on Key Personnel The success of the Company is dependent in large part on certain key management and technical personnel. The loss of one or more of these key personnel could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company believes that its future success depends significantly upon its ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled 10 technical, sales and management employees and consultants. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in these efforts due to the high level of competition in the embedded systems industry in general and in the signal-processing segment of the embedded systems industry in particular. The Company’s business and operating results may be materially and adversely affected if it is unsuccessful in these efforts. Inflation and Foreign Currency Fluctuations The Company sells the majority of its products in United States dollars while incurring costs, in varying proportions, in Canadian dollars, United States dollars and other currencies. Thus, the Company’s operations are susceptible to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. In 2006, the increased value in the Canadian dollar relative to the United States dollar increased the Company’s Canadian dollar denominated operating expenses relative to its revenues, the majority of which are denominated in United States dollars, which had a negative impact on net earnings. If the Canadian dollar continues to appreciate relative to the United States dollar, the Company’s reported operating expenses and net earnings may be further impacted. The Company periodically enters into foreign exchange futures contracts to attempt to reduce its exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. These contracts typically do not have terms exceeding one year when entered into. The Company’s current policy is to limit the maximum notional principal amount it may hedge under these contracts at any one time to Cdn$12,000,000 ($10,299,000). At December 31, 2006, the Company was party to foreign currency futures contracts with a total notional principal of Cdn$2,000,000 ($1,716,000). While the Company does attempt to mitigate some of the risks of exchange rate fluctuations between the United States dollar and the Canadian dollar by denominating many of its payment obligations in United States dollars and, to a lesser extent, through its use of exchange-traded or over-the-counter contracts, there can be no assurance that these strategies will substantially reduce the potential adverse effect of exchange rate fluctuations on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Potential Undetected Errors The Company develops complex hardware and software products that may contain undetected errors or failures. Although the Company extensively tests its products prior to their introduction, design errors or hidden defects may only be discovered after initial product sampling, resulting in delays in volume productions or recalls of products sold. The occurrence of such errors could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Dependence on Third-Party Suppliers The Company’s products may contain sole-sourced components such as microprocessors, signal processors, field programmable gate arrays, application specific integrated circuits, operating systems and chassis from suppliers including, but not limited to, Xilinx Inc., Freescale Semiconductor Inc., Texas Instruments Inc., Analog Devices Inc., Altera Corp., Atmel Corp., Wind River Systems Inc., Green Hills Software Inc., Harris Corporation, Digital Receiver Technology, Inc., Objective Interface Systems, Inc., Communications Research Centre Canada and Zeligsoft Inc. Each of these suppliers is the sole manufacturer of their respective components. The Company generally does not have supply guarantees with these suppliers and there can be no assurance that these suppliers will continue to meet its requirements. If any of the sole-sourced suppliers limit or reduce the sale of these components, the Company may be unable to fulfill customer orders in a timely manner, or at all. The availability of many of these sole-sourced components is dependent in part on the Company’s ability to accurately forecast its future requirements. While the Company has, from time to time, experienced shortages of components from sole-sourced suppliers, such shortages have not had a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results to date. Supply shortages for other components can delay production and, therefore, delay revenue of all products using that component or cause price increases in the products and services provided. In the past, the Company has secured sufficient allocations of constrained components so that revenue was not materially impacted. In addition, at various times, there have been industry-wide shortages of electronic components. Such shortages, or future fluctuations in material costs, may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business or cause its results of operations to fluctuate from period to period. Third-party software incorporated into products offered by the Company may fail or may fail to be supported by the respective software vendor. The Company may be required to redesign the software or seek replacement 11 software from another supplier. Furthermore, should new releases of third-party software prove to be incompatible with the current version of the Company’s product lines, a decline in demand for the affected products may result or the Company may be required to redesign its hardware products. Export Controls A number of the Company’s products include items that are regulated by United States and Canadian export control laws. Some of these United States controlled products have also been classified as munitions and are subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, or ITAR, which are promulgated under the authority of the Arms Export Control Act 22 U.S. 2778-2994. These regulations determine the countries in which the Company’s products that are classified as munitions can be marketed and sold. The regulations require the Company to apply for individual retransfer authorizations (export permits) from the United States Department of State for each transaction involving a regulated product. The Company routinely applies to expand the permitted territories for its products, however the process is often protracted, with unpredictable results. All of the Company’s products, including those regulated by the United States Department of State, are also subject to Canadian export control laws. The Canadian laws have been largely harmonized with both United States and international laws, as Canada is a signatory to many international conventions. However, instances may exist where the application of Canada’s export regulations may result in a different export conclusion than the application of United States export regulations. Intellectual Property Rights The Company believes that protection of its proprietary intellectual property is important. The Company seeks to maintain the proprietary nature of its technology through limited disclosure to third parties and customers, applying for patent registrations, copyright protection, ensuring its software is embedded and using non-disclosure agreements prior to disclosing proprietary intellectual property. The Company has selectively sought patent protection of its products in the United States and Canada. As of March 22, 2007, the Company has one patent related to differential signal processing power management and one patent related to modular input/output technologies. The United States Patent and Trademark Office rejected one patent request by the Company in 2006. While the Company has applied for two additional patents over the period of October 2000 to December 31, 2006, there can be no assurance that these patents, if granted, will be effective in protecting the patented technology or that the Company will be successful in prosecuting any patent infringement actions. The Company may not be able to avail itself of the protection afforded by patent laws and the laws related to trade secrets in the event that a competitor infringes upon its proprietary rights. There can be no assurance that any steps taken by the Company to protect its proprietary intellectual property will be effective in preventing misappropriation. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop technologies that are similar to or superior to the Company’s technology and obtain patents or copyrights thereon. In such an event, the Company may not be able to license such technology on reasonable terms, or at all. Although the Company does not believe that its products and technologies infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims in the future. During 2006, the Company also applied for registration of one Trademark in both Canada and the United States. While the Company has not experienced any objections to its application, there is no assurance that this trademark registration will be granted. Contract Manufacturing The Company relies on contract manufacturers to assemble and test the majority of its printed circuit board assemblies in accordance with its specifications. While the Company has not experienced any material difficulties in obtaining manufactured products to date, any reduction or interruption in product manufacturing by such contract manufacturers could disrupt or delay the Company’s ability to deliver its products to its customers and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. The contract manufacturing industry is also subject to consolidation. While the Company has not experienced any impact from such consolidation to date, there is no assurance that future mergers or acquisitions will not have an adverse effect on the Company’s current working relationships. Furthermore, there is no assurance that the Company will be able to secure new contract manufacturing relationships in a timely manner. The Company may incur significant set-up costs and delays in manufacturing should it be necessary to replace any key suppliers due to work stoppages, shipping delays, financial difficulties or other factors. 12 Environmental and Safety Regulations The Company’s products may become subject to new European substance bans (Directive 2002/95/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment) and product take-back regulations (Directive 2002/96/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on waste electrical and electronic equipment) that would make the Company responsible for recycling and/or disposing of products the Company sold. These and other proposed environmental laws may become more stringent over time, may be required in more places where the Company does business and may require the Company to incur increased costs for compliance. Although costs relating to environmental matters have not had a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition in the past, there can be no assurance that such costs will not have a material adverse effect in the future. The Company works with its suppliers to encourage the sharing of non-proprietary information on environmental research and compliance programs. Certain of the Company’s products sold in certain configurations may be subject to Canadian, United States and European emission and safety regulations including United States Federal Communications Commission Part 15B, 47CFRCh I (10-1-97 Ed), European Parliament Directive 73/23/EEC, 89/336/EEC, 2004/108/EEC, 95/5/EC and United States and Canadian Underwriters Laboratory safety regulations. These regulations may negatively impact the salability of the Company’s products for certain applications and may require the Company to incur increased costs for compliance. Reliance on Third-Party Distributors The Company relies on third-party distributors to sell its products in Europe, Israel and Asia. Certain of the Company’s distributors market products that compete with its products. The loss, termination or failure of one or more of its distributors to effectively promote its products could affect the Company’s ability to bring its products to market. Changes in the financial or business condition of these distributors could also have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. International Operations and Markets The Company markets and sells products in international markets and has established offices and subsidiaries in the United States and the United Kingdom. Revenues from non-United States customers accounted for 22%, 32% and 18% of total revenues for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. There are inherent risks in transacting business internationally, including: • changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements; • export and import restrictions; • export controls relating to technology; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • less favorable intellectual property laws; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • longer payment cycles; • problems in collecting accounts receivable; • political instability; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • expatriation controls; and • potential adverse tax consequences. There can be no assurance that one or more of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s future international activities and, consequently, on its business or results of operations. Uncertainty of Current Economic and Political Conditions Current global economic and political conditions are extremely uncertain as the result of many factors including the terrorist attacks in the United States in 2001, the United States’ involvement in Iraq and other global conflicts and acts of terrorism. These uncertainties make it extremely difficult to estimate the level of growth for the economy as a whole and for the markets in which the Company operates. As the Company’s budgeting and forecasting depend on estimates of the growth of the markets it serves and the demand for its products, the prevailing 13 economic uncertainties will render future revenue, earnings and expenditure projections even more difficult than usual to make. Availability of Licenses The Company currently licenses a wide variety of intellectual property, including software and development tools, from third party suppliers for use in its products. The Company expects to incorporate such third party intellectual property into its future product developments. There can be no assurance that the Company’s present licenses do, or that its future licenses will, grant the Company adequate rights for a sufficient period of time to support its products and customers, or that it will be able to renew expired licenses on commercially reasonable terms. Corporate Governance and Public Disclosure Regulations Compliance with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Multi-Lateral Instrument 52-109, new SEC regulations and changes to the rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market, has required the Company to expend significant resources and incur additional expenses, and will continue to do so. The Company is committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, the Company will need to continue to invest necessary resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards and this investment may continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities. Reliance on Information Technology Systems and Networks The Company relies on complex information technology systems and networks to operate its business. While the Company has implemented various measures to secure its network and manage system disruptions, all information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources including, but not limited to, computer viruses, security breaches, power disruptions, natural disasters, terrorist attacks or telecommunications failures. There is also a risk of disruption due to defective or improperly installed, new or upgraded business management systems. A significant system failure or security breach could negatively impact the Company’s operations and financial results and the Company may incur additional costs to remedy the damages incurred as a result of the security breach or disruption. Ability to Obtain Adequate Insurance Coverage The Company has many types of insurance coverage. Many external factors including the risk of terrorist attacks, natural disasters and recent corporate scandals have led to increases in both insurance premiums and claim deductibles. Internal factors, including the Company’s recent financial performance, liquidity, recent restatement of historical financial results and pending acquisition may impact its ability to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable premium rates. While the Company believes it has been able to obtain sufficient insurance coverage to date, there can be no assurance that adequate coverage will be available in the future at reasonable premium rates. If coverage is not available or premiums are extremely high, the Company may be forced to self-insure for certain matters, which could substantially increase the risk to the Company’s financial condition in the event of a loss. 