Item 1A, Risk Factors as well as risks discussed elsewhere in this report; • each of the matters discussed in Item 3, Legal Proceedings; • difficulties relating to our significant management turnover; • our ability to recruit and retain qualified MTs and other employees; • the impact of our new services and products on the demand for our existing services and products; • our current dependence on medical transcription for substantially all of our business; • our ability to expand our customer base; • changes in law, including, without limitation, the impact HIPAA will have on our business; • infringement on the proprietary rights of others; • our ability to diversify into other businesses; • the results of our review of strategic alternatives, including an evaluation of whether a sale of MedQuist is in the best interests of MedQuist and our shareholders; • our ability to effectively integrate newly-acquired operations; • competitive pricing pressures in the medical transcription industry and our response to those pressures; and • general conditions in the economy and capital markets. Many of these factors are beyond our ability to predict or control. In addition, as a result of these and other factors, our past financial performance should not be relied on as an indication of future performance. The cautionary statements referred to in this section also should be considered in connection with any subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements that may be issued by us or persons acting on our behalf. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. In light of these risks and uncertainties, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this report might not occur. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee future results, events, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Set forth below are certain important risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition and cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us. Although we believe that we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our performance or financial condition. More detailed information regarding certain risk factors described below is contained in other sections of this report. We are subject to ongoing investigations, which could require us to pay substantial fines or other penalties or subject us to sanctions and we cannot predict the timing of developments in these matters. The SEC is currently conducting a formal investigation of us related to our billing practices. We have been fully cooperating with the SEC since it opened its investigation in 2004. We have complied, and are continuing to comply, with information and document requests by the SEC. On December 17, 2004, we received an administrative HIPAA subpoena for documents from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ). The subpoena seeks information primarily about our provision of medical transcription services to governmental and non-governmental customers. The information was requested in connection with a dual civil and criminal government investigation into whether we and others violated federal laws in connection with the provision of medical transcription services. We have been and intend to continue cooperating fully with the DOJ. 11 Table of Contents On November 23, 2004 we received notice from the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) of its commencement of a formal investigation into the administration of our 401(k) plan. We have been fully cooperating with the DOL since it opened its investigation in 2004. We have complied, and are continuing to comply, with information and document requests by the DOL. We cannot predict when the investigations will be completed or the timing of any other developments, nor can we predict what the result of these matters may be. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings, for a further discussion of these matters. Expenses incurred in connection with these matters (which include substantial fees for lawyers and other professional advisors) could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We may be required to pay material judgments, fines, penalties or settlements or suffer other penalties, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, including the loss of customers, and our historical and future results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The investigations may adversely affect our ability to obtain and/or increase the cost of obtaining directors’ and officers’ liability insurance and/or other types of insurance, which could have a material adverse affect on our ability to retain our current or obtain new senior management and directors. In addition, the findings and outcomes of the investigations described above may adversely affect the course of the civil litigation pending against us. Several lawsuits have been filed against us involving our billing practices and other related matters and the outcome of these lawsuits may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A number of lawsuits have been filed against us, as well as certain of our past and current officers and/or directors and current majority shareholder, relating to, among other things, allegations of violations of various common laws based on allegedly unlawful billing and payroll practices. Substantial damages or other monetary remedies assessed against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings, for a further discussion of these matters. The continuing time, effort, and expense relating to the allegations raised regarding our past billing practices and the development and implementation of improved internal controls and procedures may have an adverse effect on our business. Our management team has spent considerable time and effort addressing the challenges of the various government investigations and extensive litigation we face as well as strengthening our accounting and internal controls and updating and developing accounting policies and procedures, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. To the extent these matters require continued management attention, our operations may be adversely affected. Our ability to expand our business and properly service our customers depends on our ability to effectively manage our domestic production capacity, including our ability to recruit, train and retain qualified MTs and maintain high standards of quality service in our operations, which we may not be able to do. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to effectively manage our domestic production capacity including our ability to attract and retain qualified MTs who can provide accurate medical transcription. There is currently a shortage of qualified MTs in the U.S. and increased workflow has created industry-wide demand for quality MTs. As a result, competition for skilled MTs is intense. We have active programs in place to attract domestic MTs and to partner with offshore medical transcription service providers. However, this strategy may not alleviate any issues caused by the shortage. Because medical transcription is a skilled position in which experience is valuable, we require that our MTs have substantial experience or receive substantial training before being hired. Competition may force us to increase the compensation and benefits paid to our MTs, which could reduce our operating margins and profitability. In addition, failure to recruit and retain qualified MTs may have an adverse effect on our ability to service our customers, manage our production capacity and maintain our high standards of quality service. An inability to hire and retain a sufficient number of MTs could have a negative impact on our ability to grow. We are reviewing strategic alternatives which could impact our operating results, our stock price and our business. In June 2007 we engaged Bear, Stearns and Co. Inc. as our financial advisor to review our strategic alternatives. On November 2, 2007, Philips announced its intention to proceed with the sale of its approximate 69.6% ownership interest in us if a satisfactory price and other acceptable terms can be realized. On this same date and in light of Philips’ announcement, we announced that our board of directors, in connection with its previously disclosed review of strategic alternatives, is evaluating whether a sale of MedQuist is in the best interest of MedQuist and our shareholders. We are uncertain as to what impact the potential sales transaction by Philips or any other particular strategic alternative will have on our operating results, our stock price and our business if accomplished or whether any transaction will even occur as a result of this review. There can be no assurance that the exploration of strategic alternatives will result in any agreements or transactions. Other uncertainties and risks relating to our review of strategic alternatives include: 12 Table of Contents • the review of strategic alternatives may disrupt our operations, affect morale and distract management which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results; • perceived uncertainties as to our future could have a negative impact on our relationships with customers and may result in the loss of business opportunities; • perceived uncertainties as to our future may result in increased difficulties in recruiting and retaining employees, particularly highly qualified employees; • the process of reviewing strategic alternatives may be more time consuming and expensive than we currently anticipate; • we may not be able to identify strategic alternatives that are worth pursuing; and • we may not be able to successfully achieve the benefits of any strategic alternative undertaken by us. If the electronic health records (EHR) companies produce solutions acceptable to large hospital systems for the creation of electronic clinical documentation that are not based on the conversion of voice to text, the overall demand for medical transcription services could be reduced. EHR companies’ solutions for the collection of clinical data typically require physicians to directly enter and organize patient chart information through templates thereby eliminating or dramatically reducing the use of dictation or transcription. Although the EHR market is in the early stages of development and is rapidly evolving, a number of market entrants have introduced or developed products and services that are competitive with one or more components of the solutions we offer. We expect that additional companies will continue to enter this market. In new and rapidly evolving industries, there is significant uncertainty and risk as to the demand for, and market acceptance of, recently introduced solutions for the creation of electronic clinical documentation. In the event that such solutions are successful and gain wide acceptance, the overall demand for medical transcription services could be reduced. In the event that markets develop more quickly than expected, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have experienced significant management turnover. In the past few years, we have experienced a significant turnover in our senior management. This lack of management continuity, and the resulting lack of long-term history with us, could result in operational and administrative inefficiencies and added costs, could adversely impact our stock price and our customer relationships and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. In addition, we must successfully integrate any new management personnel that we hire within our organization in order to achieve our operating objectives, and changes in other key management positions may temporarily affect our financial performance and results of operations as new management becomes familiar with our business. Accordingly, our future financial performance will depend to a significant extent on our ability to motivate and retain key management personnel. We have not complied with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX) for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. As directed by Section 404 of SOX (Section 404), the SEC adopted rules requiring certain public companies, including us, to include management’s assessment of the effectiveness of a public company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report on Form 10-K. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firms auditing certain public companies’ financial statements, including ours, must attest to the effective operation of such companies internal control over financial reporting. Although these requirements were first applicable to our annual report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2004, we were unable to comply with these requirements for such fiscal year. The time and resources expended in connection with the Review and management’s review of our historical customer billing, including the resulting changes in senior management, prevented us from completing our internal documentation, assessment and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, all of which are required to be undertaken to comply with Section 404. This correspondingly prevented our independent registered public accounting firm from commencing the required audit of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004. Since we determined that it would not be possible to complete either management’s assessment or an audit of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, our independent registered public accounting firm accordingly did not issue an opinion with respect to our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004. This failure to obtain an opinion does not comply with the SEC’s rules and regulations under Section 404, and this noncompliance, as well as our failure to provide the required Section 404 management assessment, has resulted in us being in violation of Section 13(a) under the Exchange Act. Section 13(a) establishes the 13 Table of Contents general requirement that public companies must file with the SEC, in accordance with such rules and regulations as the SEC may prescribe, such information, documents and reports as the SEC may from time to time require for the protection of investors, including Forms 10-K and 10-Q. In general, the SEC has broad authority under the Exchange Act to institute investigations, to seek injunctions, to seek monetary penalties, and to otherwise pursue enforcement actions for violations of Section 13(a), including a failure to file a Form 10-K or for the omission of necessary statements in a Form 10-K. Therefore, our failure to comply with the Section 404 requirements in our Form 10-K could potentially subject us to these same investigations, injunctions, penalties and enforcement actions. Section 404 is a relatively new legal requirement, and there is very little precedent establishing the consequences or appropriate response to a public company’s failure to comply with Section 404. Accordingly, although we have discussed our Section 404 noncompliance with the SEC, we cannot predict what action, if any, the SEC may take against us as a result of a failure to be compliant with our obligations under Section 404 or Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. Current and prospective investors, customers and employees may react adversely to the allegations concerning our billing practices. Our future success depends in large part on the support of our current and future investors, customers and employees. The allegations concerning our past billing practices could cause current and future customers to lose confidence in us, which may affect their willingness to seek services from us. In addition, employees and prospective employees may factor in these considerations relating to our stability and the value of any equity incentives in their decision-making regarding employment opportunities. We compete with many others in the market for medical transcription services which may result in lower prices for our services, reduced operating margins and an inability to maintain or increase our market share and expand our service offerings. We compete with other outsourced medical transcription service companies in a very fragmented market that includes national, regional and local service providers, as well as service providers with global operations. These companies offer services that are similar to ours and compete with us for both customers and qualified MTs. We also compete with the in-house medical transcription staffs of our customers. While we attempt to compete on the basis of fast, predictable turnaround times and consistently high accuracy and document quality, all offered at a reasonable price, there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against our competitors or timely implement new products and services. Many of our competitors attempt to differentiate themselves by offering lower priced alternatives to our outsourced medical transcription services. Increased competition and cost pressures affecting the healthcare markets in general may result in lower prices for our services, reduced operating margins and the inability to maintain or increase our market share. As technology evolves, including the continued refinement of speech recognition technology, health information technology providers may provide services that replace or reduce the need for medical transcription. Furthermore, companies that provide services complementary to medical transcription, such as electronic medical records, coding and billing, may expand the services they provide to include medical transcription. Current and potential competitors may have financial, technical and marketing resources that are greater than ours. As a result, competitors may be able to respond more quickly to evolving technological developments or changing customer needs or devote greater resources to the development, promotion or sale of their technology or services than we can. In addition, competition may increase due to consolidation of medical transcription companies. As a result of such consolidation, there may be a greater number of providers of medical transcription services with sufficient scale, service mix and financial resources to compete with us to provide services to larger, more complex organizations. Current and potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships with third parties to increase their ability to attract our current and potential customers. We may pursue future transactions which could require us to incur debt and assume contingent liabilities and expenses, and we may not be able to effectively integrate new operations. A significant portion of our historical growth has occurred through transactions, and we may pursue transactions in the future. Transactions involve risks that the combined businesses will not perform in accordance with expectations and that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of the combined businesses will prove incorrect. We cannot guarantee that if we decide to pursue future transactions, we will be able to identify attractive opportunities or successfully integrate any business or asset we combine with our existing business. Future transactions may involve high costs and may result in the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, interest expense, amortization expense or periodic impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets as well as significant charges relating to integration costs. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully integrate any business we combine with our existing business or that any combined businesses will be profitable. The successful integration of new businesses depends on our ability to manage these new businesses effectively. The successful integration of future transactions may also require substantial attention from our senior 14 Table of Contents management and the management of the combined businesses which could decrease the time that they have to service and attract customers. In addition, because we may actively pursue a number of opportunities simultaneously, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, complications and delays, including difficulties in employing sufficient staff and maintaining operational and management oversight. Our inability to complete the integration of any new businesses we combine with our existing business in a timely and orderly manner could reduce our net revenues and negatively impact our results of operations. Our success will depend on our ability to adopt and integrate new technology into our DEP, to improve our production capabilities and expand the breadth of our service offerings, as well as our ability to address any unanticipated problems with our information technology systems, which we may not be able to do quickly, or at all. Our ability to remain competitive in the medical transcription industry is based, in part, on our ability to develop and utilize technology in the services that we provide to our customers to improve our production capabilities and expand the breadth of our service offerings. Because our services are an integral part of our customers operations, we also must quickly address any unanticipated problems with our information technology systems that could cause an interruption in service or a decrease in our responsiveness to customers. Furthermore, as our customers advance technologically, we must be able to effectively integrate our DEP with their systems and provide advanced data collection technology. We plan to develop and integrate new technologies into our current service structure to give our customers high-quality and cost-effective services. We also may need to develop technologies to provide service systems comparable to those of our competitors as they develop new technology. If we are unable to effectively develop and integrate new technologies, we may not be able to expand our technology and service offerings or compete effectively with our competitors. In addition, if the cost of developing and integrating new technologies is high, we may not realize our expected return on investment. Due to the critical nature of medical transcription to our customers’ operations, potential customers may be reluctant to outsource or change service providers as a result of the cost and potential for disruption in services which may inhibit our ability to attract new customers. The up-front cost involved in changing medical transcription service providers or converting from an in-house medical transcription department to an outsourced provider may be significant. Many customers may prefer to remain with their current service provider or keep their medical transcription in-house rather than incur these costs or experience a potential disruption in services as a result of changing service providers. Also, as the maintenance of accurate medical records is a critical element of a healthcare provider’s ability to deliver quality care to its patients and to receive proper and timely reimbursement for the services it renders, potential customers may be reluctant to outsource such an important function. If our intellectual property is not adequately protected, we may lose our market share to our competitors and be unable to operate our business profitably. Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology and our ability to license and renew third-party intellectual property. We regard some of the software underlying our services, including our DEP and interfaces, as proprietary, and we rely primarily on a combination of trade secrets, patent, copyright and trademark laws, confidentiality agreements, contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our intellectual property or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. There can be no assurance that our proprietary information will not be independently developed by competitors. There can be no assurance that the intellectual property we own or license will provide competitive advantages or will not be challenged or circumvented by our competitors. We are dependent on third party speech recognition software incorporated in certain of our technologies, and impaired relations with such third party or the inability to enhance such third party software over time could harm our business. We license speech recognition software from PSRS that we incorporate into our DEP and SpeechQ for Radiology. This license may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Some of this technology would be difficult to replace. The loss of this license could significantly impact our business until we identify, license and integrate, or develop equivalent software. If we are required to enter into license agreements with third parties for replacement technology, we could face higher royalty payments and our products may lose certain attributes or features. In addition, our products may be impacted if errors occur in the licensed software that we utilize. It may be more difficult for us to correct any defects in third-party software because the software is not within our control. Accordingly, our business could be adversely affected in the event of any errors in this software. There can be no assurance that these third-parties will continue to invest the appropriate levels of resources in their products and services to maintain and enhance the capabilities of their software. 15 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with extensive contractual obligations and applicable laws and government regulations governing the handling of patient identifiable medical information, including those imposed on our customers in connection with HIPAA, we could suffer material losses or be negatively impacted as a result of our customers being subject to material penalties and liabilities. As part of the operation of our business, our customers provide us with certain patient identifiable medical information. Although many regulatory and governmental requirements do not directly apply to our operations, our hospital and other healthcare provider customers must comply with a variety of requirements related to the handling of patient information, including laws and regulations protecting the privacy, confidentiality and security of PHI. Most of our customers are covered entities and, in many of our relationships, we function as a business associate. In particular, the provisions of HIPAA require our customers to have business associate agreements in place with a medical transcription company such as ours under which we are required to appropriately safeguard the PHI we create or receive on their behalf. Further, our customers are required to comply with HIPAA security regulations that require them to implement certain administrative, physical and technical safeguards to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability of EPHI. We are required by contract to protect the security of EPHI that we create, receive, maintain or transmit for our customers consistent with these regulations. To comply with our contractual obligations, we may have to reorganize processes and invest in new technologies. We also are required to train personnel regarding HIPAA requirements. If we, or any of our MTs or subcontractors, are unable to maintain the privacy, confidentiality and security of the PHI that is entrusted to us, our customers could be subject to civil and criminal fines and sanctions and we could be found to have breached our contracts with our customers. Additionally, because all HIPAA standards are subject to interpretation and change, we cannot predict the future impact of HIPAA on our business and operations. In the event that the standards and compliance requirements under HIPAA change or are interpreted in a way that requires any material change to the way in which we do business, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. To the extent that the laws of the states in which we or our customers operate are more restrictive than HIPAA, we may have to incur additional costs to maintain compliance with any such applicable requirements. Proposed legislation and possible negative publicity may impede our ability to utilize global service capabilities. Bills introduced in recent sessions of the U.S. Congress have sought to restrict the transmission of personally identifiable information regarding a U.S. resident to any foreign affiliate, subcontractor or unaffiliated third party without adequate privacy protections or without providing notice of the transmission and an opportunity to opt out. Some of the proposals would require patient consent. If enacted, these proposed laws would impose liability on healthcare businesses arising from the improper sharing or other misuse of personally identifiable information. Some proposals would create a private civil cause of action that would allow an injured party to recover damages sustained as a result of a violation of the new law. A number of states have also considered, or are in the process of considering, prohibitions or limitations on the disclosure of medical or other information to individuals or entities located outside of the U.S. Further, as a result of this negative publicity and concerns regarding the possible misuse of personally identifiable information, some of our customers have contractually limited our ability to use MTs located outside of the U.S. Philips owns approximately 69.6% of our outstanding common stock, and its interests may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. Philips beneficially owns approximately 69.6% of our outstanding common stock. Philips has the ability to cause the election of all of the members of our board of directors, the appointment of new management and the approval of any action requiring the approval of our shareholders, including amendments to our certificate of incorporation and mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets. The directors elected by Philips will be able to make decisions affecting our capital structure, including decisions to issue additional capital stock, implement stock repurchase programs and declare dividends. Our interests and the interests of our affiliates, including Philips, could conflict with the interest of our other shareholders. In November 2007, Philips announced its intention to proceed with the sale of its approximate 69.6% ownership interest in us if a satisfactory price and other acceptable terms can be realized. In light of Philips’ intention to proceed with the sale of its interest in us, our board of directors announced in November 2007 that it was evaluating whether a sale of MedQuist is in the best interests of MedQuist and our shareholders. There is no assurance that any sales transaction will occur as a result of this evaluation. Our stock trades on the over-the-counter “Pink Sheets” market which may decrease the liquidity of our common stock. On June 16, 2004, NASDAQ delisted our common stock because we were not able to file our periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner. Since that time, our common stock has been traded on the over-the-counter “Pink Sheets” market (Pink Sheets) under the symbol “MEDQ.PK.” Broker-dealers often decline to trade in Pink Sheets stocks given that the market for such securities is often limited, the stocks are more volatile and the risks to investors are greater. Consequently, selling our common stock can be difficult because transactions can be delayed and security analyst and news media coverage of us may be reduced. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in 16 Table of Contents the bid and ask prices for shares of our common stock as well as lower trading volume. On November 13, 2007, we submitted an application for listing on NASDAQ, however, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our application efforts. Investors should realize that they may be unable to sell shares of our common stock that they purchase. Accordingly, investors must be able to bear the financial risk of losing their entire investment in our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 