Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Item lB. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Item 2. PROPERTIES Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY. RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Item 9B. OTHER INFORMATION PART III Item 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS Item 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES PART IV Item 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES PART I ------ Forward-Looking Statements - -------------------------- Certain statements contained in this report are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes", "expects", "may", "will", "should" or "anticipates", or the negatives thereof, or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy. You are cautioned that our business and operations are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties and, consequently, our actual results may materially differ from those projected by any forward-looking statements. Certain of such risks and uncertainties are discussed below at 1A-Risk Factors. ITEM 1. Business. General Nyer Medical Group, Inc. (Company or Nyer), a Florida corporation incorporated in 1991, is a holding company with operations in the following segments: Pharmacies. D.A.W., Inc. (Eaton or D.A.W.), 80% owned by the Company, is a chain of drug stores located in the suburban Boston, Massachusetts area. Medical and surgical equipment and supplies. Two wholly owned subsidiaries, ADCO Surgical Supply, Inc. (ADCO) and ADCO South Medical Supplies, Inc. (ADCO South) are engaged in the wholesale and retail sale of medical and surgical equipment and supplies throughout New England, Florida and worldwide through Internet sales. In June 2005, the division in Nevada was closed due to continuing losses. In fiscal year 2005, Nyer Internet Companies, Inc. ceased to operate as an active business, and ADCO continued to perform the functions of the business of the company. Corporate. Salaries of the officers of the holding company are included in this segment as well as corporate expenses such as reporting costs, accounting and legal fees. Discontinued operations. Fire and police. Anton Investments, Inc. (Anton) and Conway Associates, Inc. (Conway) which are each 80% owned by the Company, sold wholesale and retail equipment, supplies and novelty items to emergency medical services, fire and police departments throughout most of New England. This segment was discontinued in fiscal 2004. Certain former operating subsidiaries of the Company (i.e., Nyer Internet Companies, Inc., Nyer Nutritional Systems, Inc. and SCBA, Inc.) have been listed as being no longer active by the appropriate governmental agency of their respective jurisdictions of incorporation. Nyle International Corp. (Nyle) is the shareholder who owns more common stock of the Company than any other shareholder. Mr. Samuel Nyer, who is Chairman of the Board of Nyle, controls more voting stock in the Company than any other shareholder. We have a policy requiring less than wholly-owned subsidiaries to reimburse us for costs in providing management services. Eaton has a service agreement with us as part of which they pay a fee of $120,000, annually. The subsidiaries are also required to reimburse the Company for any additional legal, auditing and accounting fees. For additional business segment information for the years ended June 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, see note 17 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Retail Pharmacies Business - Pharmacy chain - ------------------------------------------- Eaton Apothecary In August 1996, we acquired 80% of D.A.W., Inc. d/b/a Eaton Apothecary, a 15 store chain of pharmacies. Each of the five minority shareholders (except in one case, the husband of a shareholder) continue employment on an at will basis. Their employment contracts expired in August 2006. The Board of Directors of D.A.W. is comprised of five members, two from the minority shareholders and two from the Company and a fifth director not affiliated with the minority shareholders or the Company. The unaffiliated seat is vacant. Additionally, the minority shareholders have the option to place one member of Eaton's management team on the Nyer Board of Directors. The minority shareholders currently decline to occupy this seat. Eaton operates within the metro-Boston Massachusetts market place and in addition to its 15 pharmacies, has contracts to manage three pharmacies owned by federally qualified health centers. It additionally has contracts to provide pharmacy services to patients of three other federally qualified health centers. Pursuant to the contracts, Eaton maintains an inventory owned by the health centers for the purpose of dispensing prescriptions to health center patients. The vast majority of the prescriptions dispensed are dispensed to uninsured patients. The health centers then bill the Massachusetts Uncompensated Care Pool for the dispensed prescriptions. The health center patients can only obtain their prescriptions from Eaton if they wish to obtain their medication without charge. Eaton's net revenues were $56.4 million in fiscal 2006, with the emphasis of operations on the pharmacy department. Eaton offers free delivery service of prescription medication to customers. In fiscal 2006, prescription revenues accounted for 91% of total revenues. Strategy Eaton's strategy is to move in the opposite direction from the national chains regarding store size, merchandise mix and store locations. Its prototypical store ranges in size from 2,000 to 5,000 sq. ft. The strategy of focusing on the core of the business within a low fixed cost prototype has resulted in it becoming a leading low cost producer within the industry. Eaton believes this advantage will become increasingly important as pharmacy benefit management companies continue to squeeze margins and the Massachusetts' Medicaid program continues to manage with budget constraints and rising manufacturer prices. The growth in the market for prescription medications began to escalate after stagnating in the last year. Factors stimulating growth included the establishment of the federal Medicare Part D drug benefit and the aging of the American population resulting in increased drug utilization. Eaton is a leading niche-market pharmacy provider in Massachusetts. In conjunction with the Lynn Community Health Center, Eaton operates the only dually licensed pharmacy in the state. Eaton has contracts with three of the largest PACE (Progressive All-inclusive Care for the Elderly) providers in the state. In each of the instances, Eaton provides pharmacy services consistent with Section 340B of the Public Health Services Act. In December, 2005 Eaton entered into a pharmacy services contract with an additional federally qualified health center to dispense prescriptions to health center patients from a segregated inventory maintained at one of Eaton's pharmacies. Eaton is the only pharmacy able to dispense prescription medications to the health center's uninsured patients. The health center invoices the Massachusetts Uncompensated Care Pool for the medication dispensed. In late April 2006, Eaton acquired Connors Pharmacy in Gloucester, Massachusetts. Revenues for fiscal 2006 were $820,000. Eaton expects sales to be approximately $5 million in fiscal 2007. Eaton operates three Medicine-On-time medication management systems. This licensed packaging system caters to elderly clients who are unable to manage their medication regimens yet who are not frail enough for nursing homes. The Medicine-On-Time system is the preferred system of most Assisted Living Facilities. Assisted living facilities aretransitory facilities for elderly patients unable to live at home alone but not brittle enough to require nursing home care. The U.S. census predicts this market segment to be the largest growing housing sector in the nation over the next decade. In addition to growth in the assisted living and homebound sectors, many new customers have been gained by word of mouth throughout the visiting nurse and health center communities. Sales within these niche segments were approximately $11 million in fiscal 2006. Eaton expects growth within its niche categories to be the fastest growing segment of its business over the next several years. Eaton continues to seek acquisition opportunities within contiguous markets to grow its business. It acquires stores both with the intent of continuing operations or consolidating with existing locations. Eaton additionally continues to seek management opportunities within the federally qualified health center sector to utilize its operational leverage. Customers and Third-Party Payors During the year ended June 30, 2006, approximately 90% of the pharmacy revenues were to customers covered by health plan contracts, which typically contract with a third-party (such as an insurance company, a prescription benefit management company, a governmental agency, a private employer, a health maintenance organization or other managed care provider) that agrees to pay for all or a portion of a customer's eligible prescription purchase in exchange for reduced prescription rates. During the year ended June 30, 2006, the top five third-party payors, which provide administrative and payment services for multiple health plan contracts and customers, accounted for approximately 63% of total revenues, the largest of which represented 20% of total revenues. During the year ended June 30, 2006, Medicaid agencies accounted for approximately 20% of total revenues. Any significant loss of third-party payor business could have a material adverse effect on Eaton's business and results of operations. All of Eaton's contracts are automatically renewed unless a written notice of cancellation is provided by either party with at least a 30 day notice. Regulation Eaton's business is subject to various federal and state regulations. For example, pursuant to Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 ("OBRA") and Massachusetts's regulations, Eaton's pharmacists are required to offer counseling, without additional charge, to their customers about medication, dosage, delivery systems, common side effects and other information deemed significant by the pharmacists and may have a duty to warn customers regarding any potential adverse effects of a prescription if the warning could reduce or negate such effect. Eaton's pharmacies and pharmacists must be licensed by the Massachusetts board of pharmacy. Eaton's pharmacies and distribution centers are also registered with the Federal Drug Enforcement Administration and are subject to Federal Drug Enforcement Agency regulations relative to Eaton's pharmacy operations, including purchasing, storing and dispensing of controlled substances. If Eaton were to violate any applicable statute, rule or regulation, their licenses and registrations could be suspended or revoked. Eaton's pharmacies are subject to patient privacy and other obligations, including corporate pharmacy and associate responsibility imposed by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act. As a covered entity, Eaton is required to implement privacy standards, train their associates on the permitted uses and disclosures of protected health information, provide a notice of privacy practice to Eaton's pharmacy customers and permit pharmacy customers to access and amend their records and receive an accounting of disclosures of protected health information. Eaton is additionally required to safeguard against the loss of protected, private health information. Failure to properly adhere to these requirements could result in the imposition of civil as well as criminal penalties. In recent years, an increasing number of legislative proposals have been introduced or proposed in Congress and in the state legislature that would effect major changes in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. Although Eaton believes they are well positioned to respond to these developments, they cannot predict the outcome or effect of legislation resulting from these reform efforts. Competition Virtually all of Eaton's stores compete head-to-head with CVS and Walgreen stores. Pharmacies in supermarkets and deep discount stores, such as Wal-Mart, have not gained significant market share in the communities served by Eaton. These chains have superior financial resources and greater buying power than Eaton. Many of the largest Pharmacy Benefit Management Companies (PBMs) have instituted differential prescription co-payment structures for retail versus mail order pharmacies. Under the co-payment structures, patients are offered a financial incentive, in the form of a lower co-payment, to obtain their chronic or maintenance medications through a mail order facility. While Eaton has lost some of its customer base to mail order, it has gained market share from retail competitors that has offset the losses. Medical Products/Service ADCO - ADCO South ADCO is a wholesale medical distributor located in Bangor, Maine, with a wholesale customer base of over 863 active customers through out New England. ADCO supplies all areas of health care products to physician offices, clinics, health centers, nursing homes, visiting nurse associations, individual health care consumers and specialty equipment to hospitals. ADCO also supplies medical supplies and equipment through an interactive web site, medicalmailorder.com. This site is used to aid in directing customers through an on-line medical mall and the appropriate departments to locate specific equipment and supplies. Our target customers, include home consumers, federal agencies, military, local and state municipalities, schools and universities. ADCO derives 90% of its revenues from sales to institutional customers (primarily nursing homes and physician offices), while the balance comes from its retail and home health customers. ADCO owns a 23,000 square foot facility containing a 3,000 square foot retail showroom located in Bangor, Maine. ADCO South began operations in 1992 and is located in West Palm Beach, Florida. ADCO South's sales are from medical supplies and equipment primarily to physicians and clinics in the Palm Beach and Broward County areas of South Florida. It conducts no home health care business. ADCO and ADCO South provide over 4,500 combined stock items and special orders for non stock items, as necessary. Although the inventories of both companies share common items, the need for items relative to their geographic regions is accomplished through warehouse transfers. This enables a larger mix of products to be available from either company and both benefit from the synergies available from two combined inventories. Marketing Our sales are achieved through the services of independent sales representatives who travel throughout New England and South Florida and through telephone sales personnel, send catalogs and do mailing campaigns for existing customers and the Internet. Competition All aspects of the our medical products business are subject to significant competition. Our national competitors generally have substantially greater financial resources and other competitive advantages, although they traditionally concentrate on hospitals. Nonetheless, the Company believes we have certain competitive advantages which enable us to compete favorably with larger competitors because of our ability to be flexible and creative for their customers. The national market for wholesale distribution of medical and home health care supplies is served in large part by, McKesson, PSSI, Cardinal and Owens & Miner. PSSI is the largest national supplier of supplies to physician offices and clinics. Although hospitals are believed to constitute most of these company's largest customer group, these companies claim to serve over 17,000 other customers including physicians and clinics throughout the United States, including the New England area. Despite the presence of larger companies, ADCO/ADCO South believe the distribution of medical products in physician sites and long-term care facilities is still controlled by many small local and regional distributors. Discontinued operations: Due to declining sales and continuing losses, Anton Investments, Inc., and Conway Associates, Inc., the fire and police segment, were discontinued in fiscal 2004. Fire and Police Anton Investments, Inc. - Conway Associates, Inc. Anton and Conway sold fire, police and rescue equipment and supplies that were sold to municipal and industrial accounts throughout most of the New England area. In 2003, the Company determined to close Anton due to continuing decreased sales and an inability to generate sufficient revenues to cover fixed costs and operating expenses. In June 2004, due to declining sales and continuing losses, the Company closed Conway. The operations are accounted for as a discontinued operation and the results of operations have been excluded from continuing operations in the consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. Backlogs - Seasonal None of our Companies have significant backlogs and our businesses are not seasonal. Employees The Company believes our employees represent one of our most valuable resources. As of the date of this report, including its executive officers, we have 128 full-time and 150 part-time employees. Eaton employs 104 full-time and 146 part-time employees, ADCO employs 20 full-time employees and 2 part-time employees and ADCO South employs 4 full-time employees and 2 part-time employees. None of our employees are covered by a collective-bargaining agreement. Management believes that our relationship with our employees is excellent and that we have a loyal work force. Availability of SEC Filings All reports filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available free of charge via EDGAR through the Securities and Exchange Commission website at www.sec.gov. In addition, the public may read and copy materials filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission at the Securities and Exchange Commission's public reference room located at 450 Fifth St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. The Company also provides copies of its Forms 8-K, 10-K, 10-Q, Proxy and Annual Report at no charge available through its website at www.nyermedicalgroup.com as soon as reasonably practicable after filing electronically such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Copies are also available, without charge, from Nyer Medical Group, Inc., P.O. Box 1328, Bangor, Maine, 04402-1328. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The Company Has A Limited Amount of Cash to Fund Operating Needs We had approximately $1,130,000 in cash at September 26, 2006, as compared to $814,119 in cash at June 30, 2006. The cash balances of the Company and subsidiaries were as follows at September 26, 2006: pharmacies - $1,097,900, medical - $23,100 and the Company $9,000. Because the pharmacies are not a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and the Company does not have operating control, it cannot unilaterally cause the pharmacies to loan funds to the Company should the Company require a loan. The pharmacies owed the Company approximately $27,000. This is being repaid monthly. In October 2004, the Company's medical segment obtained a $300,000 line of credit which is collateralized by property owned by the subsidiary and guaranteed by the Company. The Company cannot draw on the line without approval from a committee of the board of directors, specifically established for this purpose. The interest rate for the line of credit is the Wall Street Journal Prime Rate. Repayment of the line of credit would be in monthly payments of interests only, with the principal being due at maturity, unless renewed. The line of credit expires November 30, 2006. As of the date of this report, the Company has not drawn on the line of credit. Restricted Assets and Uncertainties In August of 1996, the Company and the shareholders of D.A.W. entered into a stock exchange Agreement and plan of reorganization whereby the Company acquired by exchange with the sellers 80% of the issued and outstanding stock of D.A.W. The Board of Directors of D.A.W. is comprised of five members, two from the minority shareholders ("Shareholders") and two from the Company and a fifth director not affiliated with the Shareholders or the Company. The fifth seat on the board is vacant. As part of an associated shareholders' agreement, the Company and the Shareholders will not vote any of their shares in favor of, or consent to any merger of D.A.W. with another entity or any sale of all or substantially all of the assets of D.A.W. unless 80% of the D.A.W.'s Board of Directors vote in favor of the transaction. The agreement also provides for the operations of the subsidiary, including cash management, to be managed by the Shareholders. The Shareholders of D.A.W. have employment agreements which expired in August 2006. Since the agreements expired, these employees had the right to require the Company to purchase all or any portion of their shares of D.A.W. In August 2006, the Company entered into an Agreement with the Shareholders which stated/accomplished the following: The Company acknowledges that 100% of the shares of the subsidiaries of the Company ("Subsidiaries") held by each Shareholder (the "Put Shares") have been offered to the Company for purchase. The Shareholders agree to refrain from requiring the Company to immediately pay the fair market value of the Put Shares until the earlier of (i) the closing of the transaction(s) among the Company, the Shareholders and the Subsidiaries with respect to the potential purchase by the Company of all of the shares held by the Shareholders in the Subsidiaries (the "Purchase"), which may be accomplished by payment in full of immediately available funds, and (ii) July 15, 2007. The Company agrees to pay $16,665 per month in total to the Shareholders from the first business day of August 2006 until the earlier of (i) the closing of the Purchase, and (ii) December 15, 2006; and - $33,335 per month from and after December 16, 2006 - until the closing of the Purchase. D.A.W. agrees to advance to the Company the amounts necessary to make the monthly payments, which amounts will be repaid by the Company to D.A.W., (with interest at the applicable federal rate) upon the earlier of (i) the closing of the Purchase, and (ii) July 15, 2007. The Company pledges 2.5% of its holdings in D.A.W. as collateral for the monies advanced to the Company by D.A.W. to make the monthly payments noted above. The parties to the Forbearance Agreement agreed that the fair market value of all of the shares of the Subsidiaries held by the Shareholders is $4 million. The arbitration clause of the Forbearance Agreement was deleted in its entirety and replaced with a provision agreeing to jurisdiction and venue in the Business Litigation Session of the Superior Court for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. The Company and the Shareholders are presently attempting to negotiate employment agreements and/or a buy out agreeable to all parties. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully negotiate employment agreements and/or raise the capital necessary to buy out the Shareholders. Should an agreement not be reached and/or capital not be raised, the Company will be faced with a number of uncertainties: If an agreement has not been finalized by July 15, 2007, the Shareholders could seek employment elsewhere and this would, in the short run, leave no management team for the pharmacies and cause the Company to have to assemble an entire new management team. Three of the store leases are expiring in fiscal year 2007, including the largest and most profitable one, which is owned by the mother of D.A.W.'s president. If an agreement is not negotiated, this lease may not be renewed. If capital cannot be raised before the required date for the Put Shares to be purchased by the Company, then the D.A.W. minority shareholders may enforce their rights to have the Put Shares purchased. At this time, the Company does not have an alternative plan to satisfy the D.A.W. Shareholders, and the D.A.W. Shareholders may then seek to enforce their rights in a manner which would be material adverse to the Company and its shareholders. We Do Not Possess Depth in Our Management Team The success of Nyer is principally dependent upon the efforts of the President and Chief Executive Officer, Karen L. Wright and the management team of the pharmacies. With the exception of its medical products distribution companies, Nyer does not provide any operating support to its subsidiaries and limits its services principally to supplying accounting services to its subsidiaries. For this reason, Nyer has not needed the services of additional management, beyond its executive officer and the minority shareholders of Eaton. As Nyer continues to grow, it may require the services of additional executives. The loss of certain other key employees could have a material effect upon the business of Nyer. At the present time, Nyer has key-man insurance on the lives of the minority shareholders and does not have any on its executive officer nor does it intend to do so. No assurances can be given that Nyer can recruit suitable qualified executives, if necessary. Control of Nyer Is Held By a Few Shareholders Nyer's principal shareholder, Nyle International Corp. (Nyle), a corporation controlled by Mr. Samuel Nyer, owns 781,000 shares of common stock of Nyer. In addition, Nyle owns 2,000 shares of Class A preferred stock which has voting rights equal to 2,000,000 shares of common stock of Nyer on all matters that come before the common shareholders for vote. Mr. Nyer personally owns 101,400 shares of common stock of Nyer and 1,000 shares of Class B preferred stock of Nyer which has voting rights equal to 2,000,000 shares of common stock of Nyer on all matters that come before the common shareholders to vote. These holdings collectively represent approximately 61.2% of the voting securities of Nyer. As a result, Nyle and Mr. Nyer effectively control the voting power of Nyer. Accordingly, Nyle and Mr. Nyer are in the position to elect a majority of Nyer's directors and control the policies and operations of Nyer. Many of Our Competitors Have Advantages Over Us All aspects of our business are subject to significant competition. Many of our competitors generally have substantially greater financial resources and other competitive advantages. Such greater resources and advantages may reduce our chance for economic success. Volatility in the Stock Market May Have a Negative Impact on the Price of Our Stock The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of any particular company. This as well as other factors which are directly related to our businesses, could impact the market price of our common stock. Further because of the small volume of trading in our common stock, the market price of the common stock can be affected by increases in trading volume. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC. NASDAQ rules provide that if the market price of a common stock is less than $1 for thirty consecutive trading days, it can be delisted upon the happening of certain events. If our common stock is delisted by NASDAQ, the market price of the common stock may be negatively impacted. Risks related to ownership of our common stock The exercise of our outstanding stock options could adversely affect our outstanding common stock Our stock option plans are an important component of our compensation program for our employees, directors and consultants. As of June 30, 2006, we have issued and outstanding options to purchase approximately 1,682,600 shares of common stock withexercise prices ranging from $1.29 to $16.75 per share. The existence of such rights to acquire common stock at fixed prices may prove a hindrance to our efforts to raise future funding by the sale of equity. The exercise of such options will dilute the percentage ownership interest of our existing stockholders and may dilute the value of their ownership. The possible future sale of shares issuable on the exercise of outstanding options could adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. Further, the holders of the outstanding rights may exercise them at a time when we would otherwise be able to obtain additional equity capital on terms more favorable to us. Investors Should Not Expect Dividends Nyer intends to retain future earnings, if any, to finance its growth. The Companies Which Comprise Nyer Have Not Historically Operated as a Combined Business The subsidiaries that comprise Nyer have been historically managed or operated as individual, stand-alone businesses. Although we believe that we have and can continue to successfully manage and operate these separate and individual businesses, we cannot be certain of this. Certain risks are inherent in providing pharmacy services; our insurance may not be adequate to cover any claims against us Our pharmacies are exposed to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other healthcare products, such as improper filling of prescriptions, labeling of prescriptions and adequacy of warnings. Although we maintain professional liability and errors and omissions liability insurance, from time to time, claims result in the payment of significant amounts, some portions of which are not funded by insurance. We can offer no assurance that the coverage limits under our insurance programs will be adequate to protect us against future claims, or that we will maintain this insurance on acceptable terms in the future. Our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows may adversely be affected if in the future our insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable or we may suffer harm to our reputation as a result of an error or omission. Product Liability Claims May Arise in the Future of Medical Products The sale of medical products entails the risk that users will pursue product liability claims. Although we are a distributor and not a manufacturer of medical products and are therefore less likely to be ultimately liable in a product liability suit, a product liability claim could be made against us and could be expensive for us. Our insurance may not provide adequate coverage against these claims. Our Success May Vary With Regulation of and Changes in the Practice of Medicine The health care industry is subject to extensive government regulation, licensure and operating procedures. We cannot predict the impact that present or future regulations may have on operations of Eaton and ADCO. Eaton's pharmacists also may have a duty to warn customers regarding potential negative effects of a prescription drug if the warning could reduce or negate these effects. Additionally, Eaton is subject to federal Drug Enforcement Agency and state regulations relating to pharmacy operations,purchasing, storing and dispensing of controlled substances. Eaton is also subject to other federal regulations such as The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA). Moreover, as consolidation among physician provider groups, long-term care facilities and other alternate-site providers continues and provider networks are created, purchasing decisions may shift to individuals with whom Eaton and ADCO have not had prior selling relationships. There can be no assurance that Eaton and ADCO will be able to maintain its customer relationships in such circumstances or that such provider consolidation will not result in reduced operating margins. Also, national health care reform has been the subject of a number of legislative initiatives by Congress. Due to uncertainties regarding the ultimate features of health care reform initiatives and their enactment and implementation, Eaton and ADCO cannot predict which, if any, of such reform proposals will be adopted, when they may be adopted or what impact they may have on Eaton and ADCO or their customers. The actual announcement of reform proposals and the investment community's reaction to such proposals, announcements by competitors of their strategies to respond to reform initiatives and general industry conditions could produce volatility in the trading and market price of Nyer common stock. Pricing Pressures From Health Care Providers and Third-Party Payors Exists for Us The cost of a significant portion of medical care in the United States is funded by government and private insurance programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid and corporate health insurance plans. In recent years, government-imposed limits on reimbursement of hospitals and other health care providers have significantly impacted spending budgets in certain markets within the medical products industry. Private third-party reimbursement plans are also developing increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling health care costs through redesign of benefits and exploration of more cost-effective methods of delivering health care. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that reimbursement for purchase and use of medical products will not be limited or reduced and thereby adversely affect future sales by Eaton and ADCO. In addition, any substantial delays in reimbursement, significant reduction in coverage or payment rates from third party payors can have a material adverse effect on our retail pharmacy business. Pharmacy sales to third party plans accounted for 90% of our total pharmacy sales for the fiscal year ended 2006, 81% for the fiscal year ended 2005 and 83% for the fiscal year ended 2004. Eaton is Dependent on Relationships with Vendors Eaton is dependent on vendors to manufacture and supply products. During the 12-month period ended June 30, 2006, Eaton had one vendor whose relationship accounts for 88.2% of their inventory purchases. We believe if necessary, we can replace the vendor with no adverse cost effect. Eaton's ability to maintain good relations with vendors will affect the profitability of its business. Currently, Eaton relies on its vendors to provide: (i) agreeable purchasing and delivery terms; (ii) sales performance incentives; (iii) financial support of sales and marketing programs; and (iv) promotional materials. There can be no assurance that Eaton will maintain good relations with its vendors. Eaton is Dependent on Employees Eaton depends on the continued service of, and on the ability to attract, motivate and retain, a sufficient number of pharmacists for our stores. We believe that our success depends in part on our continued ability to attract and retain qualified and skilled pharmacists. Over the years, a significant shortage of pharmacists has developed due to industry competition as well as competition from other industries. This has resulted in continued upward pressure on pharmacist compensation packages. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract, hire and retain sufficient numbers of pharmacists necessary to continue to develop and grow our business. The inability to attract and retain a sufficient number of pharmacists could limit our ability to increase revenue and impact our ability to deliver high levels of customer care. ADCO Is Dependent on Relationships with Vendors ADCO distributes from its stock over 4,000 medical products manufactured by approximately 135 vendors and is dependent on these vendors for the manufacture and supply of products. During the 12-month period ended June 30, 2006, ADCO had one vendor, a buying group, whose relationship accounted for 20% of ADCO's inventory purchases. If the relationship with this buying group was disrupted, management believes it has at least two competitive buying groups who could fulfill their inventory needs but it may be at additional expense. ADCO's ability to maintain good relations with these vendors will affect the profitability of its business. Currently, ADCO relies on vendors to provide: (i) field sales representatives' technical and selling support; (ii) agreeable purchasing and delivery terms; (iii) sales performance incentives; (iv) financial support of sales and marketing programs; and (v) promotional materials. There can be no assurance that ADCO will maintain good relations with its vendors. The Success of ADCO Is Dependent on Qualified Sales Representatives ADCO believes that to be successful it must continue to hire, train and retain highly qualified sales representatives. Due to the relationships developed between ADCO's sales representatives and its customers, upon the departure of a sales representative, ADCO faces the risk of losing the representative's customers, especially if the representative were to act as a representative of ADCO's competitors. ADCO generally requires its sales representatives to execute a non-competition agreement as a condition of their employment. Although courts have generally upheld the terms of non-competition agreements similar to ADCO's in the past, there can be no assurance that such agreements will be upheld in the future. ADCO Relies on Third-Party Shippers Because ADCO believes that its success to date is dependent in part upon its ability to provide prompt, accurate and complete service to its customers on a price-competitive basis, any material increases in its costs of procuring and delivering products could have an adverse effect on its results of operations. Strikes or other service interruptions affecting United Parcel Service or other common carriers used by ADCO to ship its products could impair ADCO's ability to deliver products on a timely and cost-effective basis. In addition, because ADCO typically bears the cost of shipment to its customers, any increase in shipping rates could have an adverse effect on ADCO's operating results. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, regulations and NASDAQ Stock Market LLC rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, our ongoing efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our management's required assessment of our internal control over financial reporting and our independent registered public accounting firm's attestation of that assessment will require the commitment of financial and managerial resources. We expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of resources. In addition, Executive Compensation and Related Party Disclosure, which will soon be required of us, will also require commitment of financial and managerial resources. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are exposed to risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate those internal controls. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2004 requires our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. Under the new compliance schedule, we will be required to comply with the Section 404 requirements for our fiscal year ending on June 30, 2008. In the event that our chief executive officer or independent registered public accounting firm determines that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404, investor perceptions and the reputation of our company may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. We are subject to additional rules and regulations as a public company, which will increase our administration costs which in turn could harm our operating results. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. n addition to final rules and rule proposals already made by the SEC, NASDAQ adopted revisions to its requirements for companies that are NASDAQ-listed. These rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs, and made some activities more time consuming or costly. We also expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our results of operations and cause us to change our business practices. We prepare our financial statements to conform to generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, Financial Accounting Standards Board, American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in those policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. Changes to those rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, accounting policies affecting many aspects of our business, including rules relating to employee stock option grants, have recently been revised. The FASB and other agencies finalized changes to GAAP that required us, in our quarter ending September 30, 2005, to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants. We may have significant and ongoing accounting charges resulting from option grant that we expect will reduce our overall net income. In addition, since we historically have used equity-related compensation as a component of our total employee compensation program, the accounting change could make the use of equity-related compensation less attractive to us and therefore make it more difficult to attract and retain employees and directors. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable 