Item 1A Risk Factors. The medical devices we develop, manufacture, distribute and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. The process of obtaining FDA clearance and other regulatory approvals to develop and market a medical device, particularly from the FDA, can be costly and time-consuming, and there can be no assurance such approvals will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. While we believe we have obtained all necessary clearances and approvals for the manufacture and sale of our products and that they are in material compliance with applicable FDA and other material regulatory requirements, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue such compliance. After a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements continue to apply. Those regulatory requirements include: product listing and establishment registration; Quality System Regulation (“QSR”) which require manufacturers, including third-party manufacturers, to follow stringent design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during all aspects of the manufacturing process; labeling regulations and FDA prohibitions against the promotion of products for uncleared, unapproved or off-label uses or indications; clearance of product modifications that could significantly affect safety or efficacy or that would constitute a major change in intended use of one of our cleared devices; approval of product modifications that affect the safety or effectiveness of one of our PMA approved devices; Medical Device Reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to FDA if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or has malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction of the device or a similar device were to recur; post-approval restrictions or conditions, including post-approval study commitments; post-market surveillance regulations, which apply when necessary to protect the public health or to provide additional safety and effectiveness data for the device; the FDA’s recall authority, whereby it can ask, or under certain conditions order, device manufacturers to recall from the market a product that is in violation of governing laws and regulations; regulations pertaining to voluntary recalls; and notices of corrections or removals. We and certain of our suppliers also are subject to announced and unannounced inspections by the FDA to determine our compliance with FDA’s QSR and other regulations. If the FDA were to find that we or certain of our suppliers have failed to comply with applicable regulations, the agency could institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a public warning letter to more severe sanctions such as: fines and civil penalties against us, our officers, our employees or our suppliers; unanticipated expenditures to address or defend such actions; delays in clearing or approving, or refusal to clear or approve, our products; withdrawal or suspension of approval of our products or those of our third-party suppliers by the FDA or other regulatory bodies; product recall or seizure; interruption of production; operating restrictions; injunctions; and criminal prosecution. In June 2011, the FDA preannounced an inspection to close out the March 2009 Warning Letter issued to Blackstone Medical, Inc., and to determine compliance to Orthofix’s Quality System Requirements as well as to our Tissue Distribution program. At the close of the inspection, Orthofix received one Quality System observation on a form 483 however the FDA inspector concluded that all the corrective actions pertinent to the warning letter were adequately completed. When the FDA concludes that an inspection is “closed” under 21 C.F.R. 20.64 (d) (3), it will release a copy of the Establishment Inspection Report (EIR) to the inspected establishment. Orthofix received its EIR for the June 2011 inspection in August 2011 indicating that this inspection was closed. The corrective action associated with the one observation on the 483 was fully corrected by Orthofix and verified by the FDA in January 2012 during a routine inspection of the Lewisville facility. At the conclusion of the January inspection the FDA issued a 483 due to minor deficiencies within our quality systems. The Company replied with a formal response, and after reviewing the evidence the FDA determined our corrective action adequate and the audit was closed. In addition to the domestic FDA inspections, all manufacturing facilities of the Company are subject to annual Notified Body inspections. No major findings have been received and certification has been granted or maintained. The FDA also has the authority to request repair, replacement or refund of the cost of any medical device manufactured or distributed by us. Any of those actions could have a material adverse effect on our development of new laboratory tests, business strategy, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 17 Table of Contents Moreover, governmental authorities outside the U.S. have become increasingly stringent in their regulation of medical devices, and our products may become subject to more rigorous regulation by non-U.S. governmental authorities in the future. U.S. or non-U.S. government regulations may be imposed in the future that may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. The European Commission (“EC”) has harmonized national regulations for the control of medical devices through European Medical Device Directives with which manufacturers must comply. Under these new regulations, manufacturing plants must have received a full Quality Assurance Certification from a “Notified Body” in order to be able to sell products within the member states of the European Union. This Certification allows manufacturers to stamp the products of certified plants with a “CE” mark. Products covered by the EC regulations that do not bear the CE mark cannot be sold or distributed within the European Union. We have received certification for all currently existing manufacturing facilities. Our products may be reimbursed by third-party payors, such as government programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, and Tricare or private insurance plans and healthcare networks. Third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device provided to a patient or used in a procedure does not meet applicable payment criteria or if the policy holder’s healthcare insurance benefits are limited. Also, third-party payors are increasingly challenging the medical necessity and prices paid for our products and services. The Medicare program is expected to continue to implement a new payment mechanism for certain items of durable medical equipment, prosthetic, orthotic supplies (“DMEPOS”) via the implementation of its competitive bidding program. The initial implementation was terminated shortly after it began in 2008 and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) began the rebid process in 2009 (“Round 1 Rebid”) with implementation of the rebid round occurring on January 1, 2011. Payment rates for certain DMEPOS items included in the Round 1 Rebid product categories, which categories do not currently include our products, will be determined based on bid prices rather than the current Medicare DMEPOS fee schedule. CMS has released the geographical areas included in Round 2 of the program, yet final decisions concerning which products will be affected have not been announced. The Company’s bone growth stimulation products are exempt from this competitive bidding process. Our subsidiary Orthofix Inc. received accreditation status by the Accreditation Commission for Health Care, Inc. (“ACHC”) for the services of DMEPOS. ACHC, a private, not-for-profit corporation which is certified to ISO 9001:2000 standards, was developed by home care and community-based providers to help companies improve business operations and quality of patient care. Although accreditation is generally a voluntary activity where healthcare organizations submit to peer review their internal policies, processes and patient care delivery against national standards, CMS required DMEPOS suppliers to become accredited. By attaining accreditation, Orthofix Inc. has demonstrated its commitment to maintain a higher level of competency and strive for excellence in its products, services, and customer satisfaction. Our sales and marketing practices are also subject to a number of U.S. laws regulating healthcare fraud and abuse such as the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the federal Physician Self-Referral Law (known as the “Stark Law”), the Civil False Claims Act and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) as well as numerous state laws regulating healthcare and insurance. These laws are enforced by the Office of Inspector General within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the U.S. Department of Justice, and other federal, state and local agencies. Among other things, these laws and others generally: (1) prohibit the provision of anything of value in exchange for the referral of patients for, or the purchase, order, or recommendation of, any item or service reimbursed by a federal healthcare program, (including Medicare and Medicaid); (2) require that claims for payment submitted to federal healthcare programs be truthful; (3) prohibit the transmission of protected healthcare information to persons not authorized to receive that information; and (4) require the maintenance of certain government licenses and permits. In addition, U.S. federal and state laws protect the confidentiality of certain health information, in particular individually identifiable information such as medical records and restrict the use and disclosure of that protected information. At the federal level, the Department of Health and Human Services promulgates health information privacy and security rules under HIPAA. These rules protect health information by regulating its use and 18 Table of Contents disclosure, including for research and other purposes. Failure of a HIPAA “covered entity” to comply with HIPAA regarding such “protected health information” could constitute a violation of federal law, subject to civil and criminal penalties. Covered entities include healthcare providers (including those that sell devices or equipment) that engage in particular electronic transactions, including, as we do, the transmission of claims to health plans. Consequently, health information that we access, collect, analyze, and otherwise use and/or disclose includes protected health information that is subject to HIPAA. As noted above, many state laws also pertain to the confidentiality of health information. Such laws are not necessarily preempted by HIPAA in particular those state laws that afford greater privacy protection to the individual than HIPAA. These state laws typically have their own penalty provisions, which could be applied in the event of an unlawful action affecting health information. On February 1, 2013, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) published a final rule which makes information publicly available about payments or other transfers of value from certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologicals and medical supplies covered by Medicare, Medicaid, and the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), defined as applicable manufacturers, to physicians and teaching hospitals, which are defined as covered recipients. Called the “National Physician Payment Transparency Program: Open Payments,” this is one of many steps in the Affordable Care Act designed to create greater transparency in health care markets. The final rule, which implements Section 6002 of the Affordable Care Act, also makes information publicly available about physician (or immediate family members of a physician) ownership or investment interests in applicable manufacturers and group purchasing organizations (GPOs). The law specifies that applicable manufacturers must report annually to the Secretary of Health and Human Services all payments or transfers of value (including gifts, consulting fees, research activities, speaking fees, meals, and travel) from applicable manufacturers to covered recipients. In addition to reporting on payments, applicable manufacturers, as well as applicable GPOs, must report ownership and investment interests held by physicians (or the immediate family members of physicians) in such entities. However, the law does not require applicable manufacturers or applicable GPOs to report ownership or investment interests held by teaching hospitals. The law requires CMS to provide applicable manufacturers, applicable GPOs, covered recipients, and physician owners and investors at least 45 days to review, dispute and correct their reported information before posting it on a publicly available website. The information on the website must be easily aggregated, downloaded and searchable. In order to give applicable manufacturers and applicable GPOs sufficient time to prepare, data collection began on August 1, 2013. Applicable manufacturers and applicable GPOs will report the data for August through December of 2013 to CMS by March 31, 2014 and CMS will release the data publicly by September 30, 2014. Sales, Marketing and Distribution General Trends We believe that demographic trends, principally in the form of a better informed, more active and aging population in the major healthcare markets of the U.S., Western Europe and Japan, together with opportunities in emerging markets such as the Asia-Pacific Region (including China) and Latin America, as well as our focus on innovative products, will continue to have a positive effect on the demand for our products. Strategic Business Units Our revenues are generally derived from the sales of products in four SBUs, BioStim, Biologics, Extremity Fixation, and Spine Fixation which accounted for 37%, 13%, 26%, and 24%, respectively, of our total net sales in 2013. 19 Table of Contents Sales, Marketing and Distributor Network We have established a broad distribution network comprised of direct sales representatives and distributors. This established distribution network provides us with a platform to introduce new products and expand sales of existing products. We distribute our products worldwide in over 50 countries. In our largest geographic market, the U.S., our sales, marketing and distribution network is comprised of several sales forces addressing different business units. The BioStim SBU for regenerative stimulation products is addressed by a hybrid distribution network of direct sales representatives and independent distributors. The Biologics SBU is addressed primarily by an independent distribution network supplemented by some direct sales representatives. The Extremity Fixation SBU is addressed by a hybrid distribution network of both direct sales representatives and distributors. The Spine Fixation SBU is addressed primarily by an independent distribution network. Outside the U.S., we employ both direct sales representatives and distributors within our international sales subsidiaries. We also utilize independent distributors in Europe, the Far East, the Middle East and Central and South America in countries where we do not have subsidiaries. In order to provide support to our independent distribution network, we have a group of sales and marketing specialists who regularly visit independent distributors to provide training and product support. Marketing and Product Education We seek to market our products principally to medical professionals and group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”), which are organizations that contract on a large scale. We believe there is a developing focus on marketing to GPOs and large national accounts that reflects a trend toward large scale procurement efforts in the healthcare industry. We support our sales force through specialized training workshops in which surgeons and sales specialists participate. We also produce marketing materials, including materials outlining surgical procedures, for our sales force and distributors in a variety of languages using printed, video and multimedia formats. To provide additional advanced training for surgeons, consistent with the AdvaMed Code and the Eucomed Code guidelines, we organize monthly multilingual teaching seminars in multiple locations. Those places include our facility in Verona, Italy, various locations in Latin America and the Orthofix Institute for Research, Training and Education in the North American Operations and Training Center in Lewisville, Texas. The Orthofix Institute is a state of the art facility which features a lecture room, classroom, workshop and 7-station bioskills laboratory. In 2013, these product education seminars were attended by over 2,508 surgeons around the world; seminars included a variety of lectures from specialists as well as demonstrations and hands-on workshops. Each year many of our sales representatives and distributors independently conduct basic courses in product application for local surgeons. We also provide sales training at our training center in Lewisville, Texas and in regional locations throughout the world. Additionally, we have implemented a web-based sales training program, which provides ongoing education for our sales representatives. Competition Our regenerative stimulation products, which are part of our Biologics and BioStim SBU’s, compete principally with similar products marketed by Biomet Spine, a business unit of Biomet, Inc; DJO Incorporated; and the Exogen product line owned by Smith and Nephew plc. and Essex Woodland, a private equity firm. Our spinal implant, HCT/P products, and Trinity Evolution ® and Trinity Elite, HCT/Ps from which we derive marketing fees, compete with products marketed by Medtronic, Inc.; De Puy Synthes, a division of Johnson and Johnson; Stryker Corp.; Zimmer, Inc.; NuVasive; Biomet Spine; and various smaller public and private companies. For external and internal fixation devices, our principal competitors include De Puy Synthes; Zimmer, Inc.; Stryker Corp.; Smith & Nephew plc; and Biomet Orthopedics, a business unit of Biomet, Inc. 20 Table of Contents We believe we enhance our competitive position by focusing on product features such as innovation, ease of use, versatility, cost and patient acceptability. We attempt to avoid competing based solely on price. Overall cost and medical effectiveness, innovation, reliability, after-sales service and training are the most prevalent methods of competition in the markets for our products, and we believe we compete effectively. Manufacturing and Sources of Supply We generally design, develop, assemble, test and package our stimulation and orthopedic products, and subcontract the manufacture of a substantial portion of the component parts. We design and develop our spinal implant and Alloquent ® Allograft HCT/Ps, but subcontract their manufacture and packaging. Through subcontracting, we attempt to maintain operating flexibility in meeting demand while focusing our resources on product development, education and marketing as well as quality assurance standards. Although certain of our key raw materials are obtained from a single source, we believe alternate sources for these materials are available. Further, we believe an adequate inventory supply is maintained to avoid product flow interruptions. We have not experienced difficulty in obtaining the materials necessary to meet our production schedules. Trinity Evolution ® and Trinity Elite, HCT/Ps for which we have exclusive marketing rights, are allograft tissue forms that are supplied to customers by MTF in accordance with orders received directly from us. MTF sources, processes and packages the tissue forms and is the sole supplier of Trinity Evolution ® and Trinity Elite to our customers. Our products are currently manufactured and assembled in the U.S., Italy, and the United Kingdom. We believe our plants comply in all material respects with the requirements of the FDA and all relevant regulatory authorities outside the U.S. For a description of the laws to which we are subject, see Item 1—Business—Corporate Compliance and Government Regulation. We actively monitor each of our subcontractors in order to maintain manufacturing and quality standards and product specification conformity. Our business is generally not seasonal in nature. However, sales associated with products for elective procedures appear to be influenced by the somewhat lower level of such procedures performed in the late summer. In addition, we do not consider the backlog of firm orders to be material. Capital Expenditures We incurred tangible and intangible capital expenditures in the amount of $29.7 million, $28.8 million and $25.8 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, principally for computer software and hardware, patents, licenses, plant and equipment, tooling and molds and product instrument sets. In 2013, we invested $29.7 million in capital expenditures of which the most significant item was $17.3 million related to instrumentation and tooling. We currently plan to invest approximately $24.3 million in capital expenditures during 2014 to support the planned expansion of our business. We expect these capital expenditures to be financed principally with cash generated from operations. Employees At December 31, 2013, we had 889 employees worldwide. Of these, 596 were employed in the U.S. and 293 were employed at other non-U.S. locations. Our relations with our Italian employees, who numbered 150 at December 31, 2013, are governed by the provisions of a National Collective Labor Agreement setting forth mandatory minimum standards for labor relations in the metal mechanic workers industry. We are not a party to any other collective bargaining agreement. We believe we have good relations with our employees. Of our 889 employees, 368 were employed in sales and marketing functions, 186 in general and administrative roles, 192 in production and operations and 143 in research and development. 21 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K and the exhibits hereto, you should carefully consider the risks described below. These risks are not the only ones that we may face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. This Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below or elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Expenses relating to or arising from the Audit Committee’s review of certain accounting matters, including diversion of management’s time and attention, may adversely affect our business and results of operations. In July 2013, the Audit Committee (the “Audit Committee”) of the Board of Directors of the Company began conducting an independent review, with the assistance of outside professionals, of certain accounting matters. This review resulted in the restatement of our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, and the restatement of our condensed consolidated financial statements at March 31, 2013, as well as the correction of similar errors in prior periods. As a result of this review and the restatement, the filing of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended June 30, 2013 and September 30, 2013 were delayed until March 2014 and the filing of this Report was delayed until the date hereof. As a result of the Audit Committee’s review, we have incurred significant expenses to date related to legal, accounting and other professional services in connection with the review, the preparation of restated consolidated financial statements and related matters, and we may continue to incur significant additional expenses with regard to these matters and our remediation efforts. In addition, our President and Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, as well as senior members of our finance and accounting departments and other Company personnel, have spent substantial amounts of time and effort in connection with this review, the restatement and related matters. The significant amount of time and effort spent by our management team on these matters may divert their attention from the operation of our business. The expenses incurred, and expected to be incurred, on the review, the restatement and related matters, and the diversion of the attention of the management team could have, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our management has identified material weaknesses in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, result in additional material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements. We may be unable to develop, implement and maintain appropriate controls in future periods. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and SEC rules require that our management report annually on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures. Among other things, our management must conduct an assessment of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to audit, the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As disclosed in Part II, Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures” of this Form 10-K, our management, with the participation of our current President and Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, has determined that we have material weaknesses in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013 related to revenue recognition practices for sales to the Company’s distributors, inventory reserves, foreign subsidiary oversight and manual journal entry control procedures. Some of these material weaknesses resulted in material misstatements in our previously filed annual audited and interim unaudited consolidated financial statements. 22 Table of Contents A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We are actively engaged in developing and implementing a remediation plan designed to address such material weaknesses. However, additional material weaknesses in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting may be identified in the future. Any failure to implement or maintain required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in additional material weaknesses, or could result in material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements. These misstatements could result in a further restatement of our consolidated financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, reduce our ability to obtain financing or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. Although we are working to remedy the ineffectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, there can be no assurance as to when the remediation plan will be fully developed, when it will be fully implemented or the aggregate cost of implementation. Until our remediation plan is fully implemented, our management will continue to devote significant time and attention to these efforts. If we do not complete our remediation in a timely fashion, or at all, or if our remediation plan is inadequate, there will continue to be an increased risk that we will be unable to timely file future periodic reports with the SEC and that our future consolidated financial statements could contain errors that will be undetected. Further and continued determinations that there are material weaknesses in the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting could also reduce our ability to obtain financing or could increase the cost of any financing we obtain and require additional expenditures of both money and our management’s time to comply with applicable requirements. For more information relating to the Company’s internal control over financial reporting (and disclosure controls and procedures) and the remediation plan undertaken by us, see Part II, Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures.” Our failure to prepare and timely file our periodic reports with the SEC limits our access to the public markets to raise debt or equity capital. We did not file a Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q within the timeframe required by the SEC for each of the quarterly periods ended June 30, 2013 and September 30, 2013. Because we have not remained current in our reporting requirements with the SEC, we are limited in our ability to access the public markets to raise debt or equity capital. Our limited ability to access the public markets could prevent us from pursuing transactions or implementing business strategies that we might otherwise believe are beneficial to our business. Until one year after the date we regain and maintain compliance with our SEC reporting obligations, we will be ineligible to use shorter and less costly filings, such as Form S-3, to register our securities for sale. We may use Form S-1 to register a sale of our stock to raise capital or complete acquisitions, but doing so would likely increase transaction costs and adversely impact our ability to raise capital or complete acquisitions of other companies in a timely manner. We have not been in compliance with Nasdaq Stock Market LLC’s requirements for continued listing and, as a result, our common stock may be delisted from trading on Nasdaq, which could have a material effect on us and our shareholders. We have been delinquent in the filing of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended June 30, 2013 and September 30, 2013, as a result of which we have not been in compliance with the rules of Nasdaq Stock Market LLC (“Nasdaq”) and are subject to having our stock delisted from trading on Nasdaq. We have been granted a stay of the delisting of our common stock until such time as a Nasdaq Hearings Panel makes a decision on the merits following a hearing, which hearing was held on March 27, 2014. We filed our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2013 on March 24, 2014 and filed our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2013 on March 25, 2014. We also filed this Form 10-K (for the year ended December 31, 2013), which is otherwise due under SEC rules on March 17, 2014, 23 Table of Contents on the date hereof. As a result, we believe that we have adequately remedied our current non-compliance with Nasdaq’s listing rules. However, there can be no assurance that the Nasdaq Hearings Panel will concur with our belief that we have remedied our prior non-compliance, in which case our common stock could remain subject to delisting by Nasdaq. If our common stock were delisted, there could be no assurance whether or when it would again be listed for trading on Nasdaq or any other exchange. Further, the market price of our shares might decline and become more volatile, and our shareholders may find that their ability to trade in our stock would be adversely affected. Furthermore, institutions whose charters do not allow them to hold securities in unlisted companies might sell our shares, which could have a further adverse effect on the price of our stock. If we fail to comply with the terms of our Deferred Prosecution Agreement and Corporate Integrity Agreement (and a related term of probation) we may be subject to criminal prosecution and/or exclusion from federal healthcare programs. On June 6, 2012, in connection with our settlement of a U.S. government investigation and related qui tam complaint related to our regenerative stimulation business, and our settlement of a U.S. government investigation and related qui tam complaint related to Blackstone Medical, Inc. (“Blackstone”), we entered into a five-year corporate integrity agreement (the “CIA”) with the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS-OIG”). The CIA acknowledges the existence of our current compliance program, and requires that we continue to maintain during the term of the CIA a compliance program designed to promote compliance with federal healthcare and Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) requirements. We are also required to maintain several elements of the existing program during the term of the CIA, including maintaining a Chief Compliance Officer, a Compliance Committee, and a Code of Conduct. The CIA requires that we conduct certain additional compliance-related activities during the term of the CIA, including various training and monitoring procedures, and maintaining a disciplinary process for compliance obligations. Pursuant to the CIA, we are required to notify the HHS-OIG in writing, among other things, of: (i) any ongoing government investigation or legal proceeding involving an allegation that the Company has committed a crime or has engaged in fraudulent activities; (ii) any other matter that a reasonable person would consider a probable violation of applicable criminal, civil, or administrative laws related to compliance with federal healthcare programs or FDA requirements; and (iii) any change in location, sale, closing, purchase, or establishment of a new business unit or location related to items or services that may be reimbursed by federal healthcare programs. We are also subject to periodic reporting and certification requirements attesting that the provisions of the CIA are being implemented and followed, as well as certain document and record retention mandates. The CIA provides that in the event of an uncured material breach of the CIA, we could be excluded from participation in federal healthcare programs and/or subject to prosecution and subject to other monetary penalties, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In connection with this settlement and the guilty plea of our subsidiary, Orthofix Inc., to one felony count of obstruction of a federal audit (18 U.S.C. §1516), the court imposed a five-year term of probation on Orthofix Inc., with special conditions which mandate certain non-disparagement obligations and order Orthofix Inc. to continue complying with the terms of the CIA through the expiration of its term. In the event that we fail to satisfy these terms of probation, we could be subject to additional criminal penalties or prosecution, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. On July 10, 2012, we entered into definitive agreements with the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) and the SEC agreeing to settle our self-initiated and self-reported internal investigation of our Mexican subsidiary, Promeca S.A. de C.V. (“Promeca”), regarding non-compliance by Promeca with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”). As part of the settlement, we entered into a three-year deferred prosecution agreement (“DPA”) with the DOJ and a consent to final judgment (the “Consent”) with the SEC. The DOJ has agreed not to pursue any criminal charges against us in connection with this matter if we comply with the terms of the DPA. The DPA takes note of our self-reporting of this matter to the DOJ and the SEC, and of remedial measures, including the implementation of an enhanced compliance program, previously undertaken by us. The DPA and the Consent collectively require, among 24 Table of Contents other things, that with respect to anti-bribery compliance matters we shall continue to cooperate fully with the government in any future matters related to corrupt payments, false books and records or inadequate internal controls. In that regard, we have represented that we have implemented and will continue to implement a compliance and ethics program designed to prevent and detect violations of the FCPA and other applicable anti-corruption laws. We will periodically report to the government during the term of the DPA regarding such remediation and implementation of compliance measures. As part of the settlement, we also agreed pursuant to the Consent to certain reporting obligations to the SEC regarding the status of our remediation and implementation of compliance measures. In the event that we fail to comply with these obligations, we could be subject to criminal prosecution by the DOJ for the FCPA-related matters we self-reported. Such a criminal prosecution could subject us to penalties that could have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are investigating allegations involving potential improper payments with respect to our subsidiary in Brazil. In August 2013, the Company’s internal legal department was notified of certain allegations involving potential improper payments with respect to our Brazilian subsidiary, Orthofix do Brasil. The Company engaged outside counsel to assist in the review of these matters, focusing on compliance with applicable anti-bribery laws, including the FCPA. This review remains ongoing. The FCPA and related provisions of law provide for potential criminal and civil sanctions in connection with anti-bribery violations, including criminal fines, civil penalties, disgorgement of past profits and other kinds of remedies. We currently cannot reasonably estimate a possible loss, or range of loss, in connection with this review. In the event that such loss is substantial, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Consistent with the provisions of the DPA and the Consent described above, the Company contacted the DOJ and the SEC in August 2013 to voluntarily self-report the Brazil-related allegations, and the Company and its counsel remain in contact with both agencies regarding the status of the review. In the event that the DOJ and the SEC find that the matters related to our Brazilian subsidiary could give rise to a review of our obligations under the terms of the DPA and/or the Consent, we currently cannot reasonably estimate a possible loss, or range of loss, in connection with that review, including any effects it may have with respect to the DPA and the Consent. In the event such a review were to occur, any losses resulting therefrom, if substantial, could have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The SEC Enforcement Staff’s review and a pending securities class action complaint have resulted in significant costs and expenses, have diverted resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. As further described in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” of this Form 10-K, we initiated contact with the staff of the Division of Enforcement of the SEC (the “SEC Enforcement Staff”) in July 2013 to advise them of the initiation of the Audit Committee’s review and the then-potential restatement of our annual audited and interim unaudited consolidated financial statements. Since our initial contact, we have received requests from the SEC Enforcement Staff for documents and other information concerning various accounting practices, internal controls and business practices, and it is anticipated that we may receive additional such requests in the future. We have further provided notice concerning these matters to HHS-OIG pursuant to our CIA with HHS-OIG, which is described in more detail in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” As also further described in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” of this Form 10-K, on August 14, 2013, a securities class action complaint against the Company was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York arising out of the restatement of our prior consolidated financial statements and the matters described above. In addition to the Company, several current and former members of our senior management are named as defendants. At the present time, the allegations that the lead plaintiff ultimately intends to make in this action are unknown. 25 Table of Contents We have incurred and/or expect to incur significant professional fees and other costs in responding to the SEC Enforcement Staff’s review and in defending against the class action complaint. If we do not prevail in the pending complaint or any other litigation, we may be required to pay a significant amount of monetary damages that may be in excess of our insurance coverage. Further, if the SEC Enforcement Staff were to conclude that enforcement action is appropriate, or if HHS-OIG were to conclude that we violated the CIA, we could be required to pay large civil penalties and fines. The SEC also could impose other sanctions against us or certain of our current and former directors and officers. Any of these events would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Additionally, while we believe we have made appropriate judgments in determining the errors and correct adjustments in preparing our restated consolidated financial statements, the SEC may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported these adjustments. Accordingly, there is a risk that we may have to further restate our historical consolidated financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC or take other actions not currently contemplated. In addition, our Board of Directors, management and employees may expend a substantial amount of time on the SEC Enforcement Staff’s review and the pending complaint, diverting resources and attention that would otherwise be directed toward our operations and implementation of our business strategy, all of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The potential for additional litigation or other proceedings or enforcement actions could adversely affect us, require significant management time and attention, result in significant legal expenses or damages, and cause our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows to suffer. The matters that led to the SEC Enforcement Staff’s review and the class action complaint described above have also exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. We and current and former members of our senior management may in the future be subject to additional litigation or governmental proceedings relating to such matters. Subject to certain limitations, we are obligated to indemnify our current and former officers and directors in connection with any such lawsuits or governmental proceedings and related litigation or settlement amounts. Regardless of the outcome, these lawsuits and any other litigation or governmental proceedings that may be brought against us or our current or former officers and directors, could be time-consuming, result in significant expense and divert the attention and resources of our management and other key employees. An unfavorable outcome in any of these matters could exceed coverage provided under potentially applicable insurance policies. Any such unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Further, we could be required to pay damages or additional penalties or have other remedies imposed against us, or our current or former directors or officers, which could harm our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Continuing negative publicity may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. As a result of the restatement of our consolidated financial statements and related matters, the ongoing SEC Enforcement Staff review, the securities class action complaint and our recent non-compliance with Nasdaq listing rules, we have been the subject of negative publicity. This negative publicity may adversely affect our stock price and may harm our reputation and our relationships with current and future investors, lenders, customers, suppliers and employees. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be materially adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents We may be subject to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws, and could face substantial penalties if we are determined not to have fully complied with such laws. Healthcare fraud and abuse regulation by federal and state governments impact our business. Healthcare fraud and abuse laws potentially applicable to our operations include: • the federal Health Care Programs Anti-Kickback Law, which constrains our marketing practices, educational programs, pricing and discounting policies, and relationships with healthcare practitioners and providers, by prohibiting, among other things, soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, in exchange for or to induce the purchase or recommendation of an item or service reimbursable under a federal healthcare program (such as the Medicare or Medicaid programs); • federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other federal government payors that are false or fraudulent; and • state laws analogous to each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including commercial insurers. Due to the breadth of some of these laws, there can be no assurance that we will not be found to be in violation of any such laws, and as a result we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations or the exclusion from participation in federal or state healthcare programs. Any penalties could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. In addition, it is possible that one or more private insurers with whom we do business may attempt to use any penalty we might be assessed or any exclusion from federal or state healthcare program business as a basis to cease doing business with us. If this were to occur, it could also have a material adverse effect on our business and financial position. Reimbursement policies of third parties, cost containment measures and healthcare reform could adversely affect the demand for our products and limit our ability to sell our products. Our products are sold either directly by us or by independent sales representatives to customers or to our independent distributors and purchased by hospitals, doctors and other healthcare providers. These products may be reimbursed by third-party payors, such as government programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and Tricare, or private insurance plans and healthcare networks. Major third-party payors for medical services in the U.S. and internationally continue to work to contain health care costs and are increasingly challenging the policies and the prices charged for medical products and services. Any medical policy developments that eliminate, reduce or materially modify coverage of, or reimbursement rates for, our products could have an impact on our ability to sell our products. In addition, third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device or product provided to a patient or used in a procedure does not meet applicable payment criteria or if the policy holder’s healthcare insurance benefits are limited. These policies and criteria may be revised from time-to-time. Limits put on reimbursement could make it more difficult to buy our products and substantially reduce, or possibly eliminate, patient access to our products. In addition, should governmental authorities continue to enact legislation or adopt regulations that affect third-party coverage and reimbursement, access to our products and coverage by private or public insurers may be reduced with a consequential material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”), in its ongoing implementation of the Medicare program, has obtained a related technical assessment of the medical study literature to determine how the 27 Table of Contents literature addresses spinal fusion surgery in the Medicare population. The impact that this information will have on Medicare coverage policy for our products is currently unknown, but we cannot provide assurances that the resulting actions will not restrict Medicare coverage for our products. It is also possible that the government’s focus on coverage of off-label uses of devices approved by the FDA could lead to changes in coverage policies regarding off-label uses by TriCare, Medicare and/or Medicaid. There can be no assurance that we or our distributors will not experience significant reimbursement problems in the future related to these or other proceedings. Globally, our products are sold in many countries, such as the United Kingdom, France, and Italy, which have publicly funded healthcare systems. The ability of hospitals supported by such systems to purchase our products is dependent, in part, upon public budgetary constraints. Any increase in such constraints may have a material adverse effect on our sales and collection of accounts receivable from such sales. As required by law, CMS has continued efforts to implement a competitive bidding program for selected durable medical equipment, prosthetic, orthotic supplies (“DMEPOS”) items paid for by the Medicare program. In this program, Medicare rates are based on bid amounts for certain products in designated geographic areas, rather than the Medicare fee schedule amount. Only those suppliers selected through the competitive bidding process within each designated competitive bidding area (CBA) are eligible to have their products reimbursed by Medicare. CMS completed the Round 1 Rebid process in the last quarter of 2012. The implementation of Rebid for Round 1 occurred on January 1, 2013 and for Round 2 on July 1, 2013. Our products are not yet included in the competitive bidding process. We cannot predict which products from any of our businesses will ultimately be affected or whether or when the competitive bidding process will be extended to our businesses. While some of our products are designated by FDA as Class III medical devices and thus are not currently included within the competitive bidding program, some of our products may be encompassed within the program at varying times. There can be no assurance that the implementation of the competitive bidding program will not have an adverse impact on the sales of some of our products. We and certain of our suppliers may be subject to extensive government regulation that increases our costs and could limit our ability to market or sell our products. The medical devices we manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. These authorities regulate the development, approval, classification, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing and sale of medical devices. Likewise, our use and disclosure of certain categories of health information may be subject to federal and state laws, implemented and enforced by governmental authorities that protect health information privacy and security. For a description of these regulations, see Item 1, “Business,” under the subheading “Government Regulation.” The approval or clearance by governmental authorities, including the FDA in the U.S., is generally required before any medical devices may be marketed in the U.S. or other countries. We cannot predict whether, in the future, the U.S. or foreign governments may impose regulations that have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The process of obtaining FDA clearance and other regulatory clearances or approvals to develop and market a medical device can be costly and time-consuming, and is subject to the risk that such approvals will not be granted on a timely basis, if at all. The regulatory process may delay or prohibit the marketing of new products and impose substantial additional costs if the FDA lengthens review times for new devices. The FDA has the ability to change the regulatory classification of a cleared or approved device from a higher to a lower regulatory classification which could materially adversely impact our ability to market or sell our devices. In addition, we may be subject to compliance action, penalties or injunctions if we are determined to be promoting the use of our products for unapproved or off-label uses, or if the FDA challenges one or more of our determinations that a product modification did not require new approval or clearance by the FDA. We and certain of our suppliers also are subject to announced and unannounced inspections by the FDA to determine our compliance with FDA’s QSR and other regulations. If the FDA were to find that we or certain of our suppliers have failed to comply with applicable regulations, the agency could institute a wide variety of 28 Table of Contents enforcement actions, ranging from a public warning letter to more severe sanctions such as: fines and civil penalties against us, our officers, our employees or our suppliers; unanticipated expenditures to address or defend such actions; delays in clearing or approving, or refusal to clear or approve, our products; withdrawal or suspension of approval of our products or those of our third-party suppliers by the FDA or other regulatory bodies; product recall or seizure; interruption of production; operating restrictions; injunctions; and criminal prosecution. The FDA also has the authority to request repair, replacement or refund of the cost of any medical device manufactured or distributed by us. Any of the forgeoing actions could have a material adverse effect on our development of new laboratory tests, business strategy, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The impact of the Affordable Care Act (“ACA”) and other United States healthcare reform legislation on us remains uncertain. In 2010 federal legislation to reform the United States healthcare system was enacted into law. The ACA is far-reaching and is intended to expand access to health insurance coverage, improve quality and reduce costs over time. The ACA mandated certain CMS demonstration projects to test the effects of new approaches for paying for health services and delivering care, including bundled payments, value-based purchasing programs, establishment of accountable care organizations, a focus on patient-centered homes and physician payment reforms that incentivize the delivery of high quality, resource-conscious health care. Several provisions of the ACA specifically impact the medical equipment industry, including the elimination of the full inflation update to the DMEPOS fee schedule for the years 2011 through 2014. Instead, beginning in 2011, the ACA reduced the inflation update for DMEPOS by a “productivity adjustment” factor intended to reflect productivity gains in delivering health care services. For 2013, the update factor is 0.8% (reflecting a 1.7% inflation update that is partially offset by a 0.9% “productivity adjustment”). The ACA establishes new disclosure requirements (Physician Payment Sunshine Act) regarding financial arrangements between medical device and supplies manufacturers and physicians, including physicians who serve as consultants. The recordkeeping requirements were effective as of August 1, 2013. Manufacturers and GPOs were required to report the data for August through December of 2013 to CMS by March 14, 2014, and the first reports will be publicly available by September 30, 2014. The regulations require us to report annually to CMS all payments and other transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals for products payable under federal health care programs, as well as ownership or investments held by physicians or their family members. Failure to fully and accurately disclose transfers of value to physicians could subject us to civil monetary penalties. Several states also have enacted specific marketing and payment disclosure requirements, and other states may do so in the future. We expect the new law will have a significant impact upon various aspects of our business operations. However, it is unclear how the new law will impact patient access to new technologies or reimbursement rates under the Medicare program. Many of the details of the new law will be included in new and revised regulations, which have not yet been promulgated, and require additional guidance and specificity to be provided by the Department of Health and Human Services, Department of Labor and Department of the Treasury. Accordingly, while it is too early to understand fully and predict the ultimate impact of the new law on our business, the legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations. Our business may be adversely affected if consolidation in the healthcare industry leads to demand for price concessions or if we are excluded from being a supplier by a group purchasing organization or similar entity. Because healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade, numerous initiatives and reforms have been launched by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to curb these costs. As a result, there has been a consolidation trend in the healthcare industry to create larger companies, including hospitals, with greater 29 Table of Contents market power. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide products and services to industry participants has become and may continue to become more intense. This has resulted and may continue to result in greater pricing pressures and the exclusion of certain suppliers from important markets as group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”), independent delivery networks and large single accounts continue to use their market power to consolidate purchasing decisions. If a GPO were to exclude us from being one of their suppliers, our net sales could be adversely impacted. We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies and societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide healthcare industry, which may exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive. New developments by others could make our products or technologies non-competitive or obsolete. The medical devices industry is highly competitive. We compete with a large number of companies, many of which have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and technical resources than we do. Many of our competitors may be able to develop products and processes competitive with, or superior to, our own. Furthermore, we may not be able to successfully develop or introduce new products that are less costly or offer better performance than those of our competitors, or offer purchasers of our products payment and other commercial terms as favorable as those offered by our competitors. For more information regarding our competitors, see Item 1, “Business,” under the subheading “Competition.” In addition, the orthopedic medical device industry in which we compete is undergoing, and is characterized by, rapid and significant technological change. We expect competition to intensify as technological advances are made. New technologies and products developed by other companies are regularly introduced into the market, which may render our products or technologies non-competitive or obsolete. Our ability to market products successfully depends, in part, upon the acceptance of the products not only by consumers, but also by independent third parties. Our ability to market our BioStim, Biologics, Extermity Fixation and Spine Fixation products successfully depends, in part, on the acceptance of the products by independent third parties (including hospitals, doctors, other healthcare providers and third-party payors) as well as patients. Unanticipated side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning any of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to maintain hospital approvals or achieve acceptance by prescribing physicians, managed care providers and other retailers, customers and patients. We could be subject to indemnification obligations under our agreement with the purchaser of our former sports medicine business unit. In May 2012, we sold our former sports medicine business unit, Breg, Inc., to an affiliate of Water Street Healthcare Partners II, L.P. pursuant to a stock purchase agreement between us and the buyer. Under the stock purchase agreement, we have agreed to indemnify the buyer with respect to certain specified matters, including (i) an ongoing U.S. government investigation and certain ongoing product liability matters relating to a previously owned infusion pump product line, and (ii) product liability claims relating to pre-closing sales of cold therapy units and certain post-closing sales of cold therapy units. These matters are further described under the subheading “Matters Related to Our Former Breg Subsidiary and Possible Indemnification Obligations” in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”. We currently cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss, or range of loss, in connection with certain of these indemnified matters. In the event that they are substantial, it could have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 30 Table of Contents We depend on our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, but we may not be able to maintain the confidentiality, or assure the protection, of these assets. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to protect our current and future technologies and products and to defend our intellectual property rights. If we fail to protect our intellectual property adequately, competitors may manufacture and market products similar to, or that compete directly with, ours. Numerous patents covering our technologies have been issued to us, and we have filed, and expect to continue to file, patent applications seeking to protect newly developed technologies and products in various countries, including the U.S. Some patent applications in the U.S. are maintained in secrecy until the patent is issued. Because the publication of discoveries tends to follow their actual discovery by several months, we may not be the first to invent, or file patent applications on any of our discoveries. Patents may not be issued with respect to any of our patent applications and existing or future patents issued to, or licensed by, us and may not provide adequate protection or competitive advantages for our products. Patents that are issued may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by our competitors. Furthermore, our patent rights may not prevent our competitors from developing, using or commercializing products that are similar or functionally equivalent to our products. We also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary expertise and continuing technological innovation that we protect, in part, by entering into confidentiality agreements with assignors, licensees, suppliers, employees and consultants. These agreements may be breached and there may not be adequate remedies in the event of a breach. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability or enforceability of confidentiality agreements. Moreover, our trade secrets and proprietary technology may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors. If patents are not issued with respect to our products arising from research, we may not be able to maintain the confidentiality of information relating to these products. In addition, if a patent relating to any of our products lapses or is invalidated, we may experience greater competition arising from new market entrants. Third parties may claim that we infringe on their proprietary rights and may prevent us from manufacturing and selling certain of our products. There has been substantial litigation in the medical device industry with respect to the manufacture, use and sale of new products. These lawsuits relate to the validity and infringement of patents or proprietary rights of third parties. We may be required to defend against allegations relating to the infringement of patent or proprietary rights of third parties. Any such litigation could, among other things: • require us to incur substantial expense, even if we are successful in the litigation; • require us to divert significant time and effort of our technical and management personnel; • result in the loss of our rights to develop or make certain products; and • require us to pay substantial monetary damages or royalties in order to license proprietary rights from third parties or to satisfy judgments or to settle actual or threatened litigation. Although patent and intellectual property disputes within the orthopedic medical devices industry have often been settled through assignments, licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and could include the long-term payment of royalties. Furthermore, the required assignments or licenses may not be made available to us on acceptable terms. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or a failure to obtain necessary assignments or licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling some products or increase our costs to market these products. 31 Table of Contents We may be subject to product and other liability claims that may not be covered by insurance and could require us to pay substantial sums. Moreover, fluctuations in insurance expense could adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to an inherent risk of, and adverse publicity associated with, product liability and other liability claims, whether or not such claims are valid. We maintain product liability insurance coverage in amounts and scope that we believe are reasonable and adequate. There can be no assurance, however, that product liability or other claims will not exceed our insurance coverage limits or that such insurance will continue to be available on reasonable, commercially acceptable terms, or at all. A successful product liability claim that exceeds our insurance coverage limits could require us to pay substantial sums and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition to product liability insurance coverage, we hold a number of other insurance policies, including directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, property insurance and workers’ compensation insurance. If the costs of maintaining adequate insurance coverage should increase significantly in the future, our operating results could be materially adversely impacted. Our allograft and mesenchymal stem cell allografts could expose us to certain risks which could disrupt our business. Our Biologics business markets tissue under the brand names Trinity Evolution ® and Trinity Elite. Trinity Evolution ® and Trinity Elite are derived from human cadaveric donors, and our ability to market the tissues depends on our supplier continuing to have access to donated human cadaveric tissue, as well as the maintenance of high standards by the supplier in its processing methodology. The supply of such donors is inherently unpredictable and can fluctuate over time. We believe that Trinity Evolution ® and Trinity Elite are properly classified under the FDA’s HCT/P regulatory paradigm and not as a medical device or as a biologic or drug. There can be no assurance that the FDA will not at some future date re-classify Trinity Evolution ® and Trinity Elite, and the reclassification of this product from a human tissue to a medical device could have adverse consequences for us or for the supplier of this product and make it more difficult or expensive for us to conduct this business by requiring premarket clearance or approval as well as compliance with additional post-market regulatory requirements. The success of our Trinity Evolution ® and Trinity Elite allografts will depend on these products achieving broad market acceptance which can depend on the product achieving broad clinical acceptance, the level of third-party reimbursement and the introduction of competing technologies. Because Trinity Evolution ® and Trinity Elite are classified as HCT/Ps, they can from time to time be subject to recall for safety or administrative reasons. Our Biologics business also distributes allograft products that are derived from human tissue harvested from cadavers and which are used for bone reconstruction or repair and which are surgically implanted into the human body. We believe these allograft products are properly classified as HCT/P products and not as a medical device or a biologic or drug. There can be no assurance that the FDA would agree that this regulatory classification applies to these products and any regulatory reclassification could have adverse consequences for us or for the suppliers of these products and make it more difficult or expensive for us to conduct this business by requiring premarket clearance or approval and compliance with additional post-market regulatory requirements. Moreover, the supply of these products to us could be interrupted by the failure of our suppliers to maintain high standards in performing required donor screening and infectious disease testing of donated human tissue used in producing allograft implants. Our allograft implant business could also be adversely affected by shortages in the supply of donated human tissue or negative publicity concerning methods of recovery of tissue and product liability actions arising out of the distribution of allograft implant products. 32 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully introduce new products to the market, and market opportunities that we expect to develop for our products may not be as large as we expect. During 2013, we continued to make improvements in revenues related to several new products we introduced to the market over the past two years, including the CONSTRUX®Mini PTC™ PEEK Titanium Composite Spacer System, Phoenix ™ Minimally Invasive Spinal Fixation System, the Firebird ™ Deformity Correction System, the FORZA™ Spacer System, TL-HEX™ TrueLok Hexapod System, Galaxy Fixation ™ System, Contours LPS ® (Lapidus Plating System, Centronail® Ankle Compression Nail, among others. Despite our planning, the process of developing and introducing new products (including product enhancements) is inherently complex and uncertain and involves risks, including the ability of such new products to satisfy customer needs, gain broad market acceptance (including by physicians) and obtain regulatory approvals, which can depend, among other things, on the product achieving broad clinical acceptance, the level of third-party reimbursement and the introduction of competing technologies. If the market opportunities that we expect to develop for our products, including new products, are not as large as we expect, it could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. Growing our business requires that we educate and train physicians regarding the distinctive characteristics, benefits, safety, clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness of our products. Acceptance of our products depends in part on our ability to (i) educate the medical community as to the distinctive characteristics, benefits, safety, clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness of our products compared to alternative products, procedures and therapies, and (ii) train physicians in the proper use and implementation of our products. We support our sales force and distributors through specialized training workshops in which surgeons and sales specialists participate. We also produce marketing materials, including materials outlining surgical procedures, for our sales force and distributors in a variety of languages using printed, video and multimedia formats. To provide additional advanced training for surgeons, consistent with the AdvaMed Code and the Eucomed Code guidelines, we organize monthly multilingual teaching seminars in multiple locations, including our Orthofix Institute for Research, Training and Education in the North American Operations and Training Center in Lewisville, Texas. However, we may not be successful in our efforts to educate the medical community and properly train physicians. If physicians are not properly trained, they may misuse or ineffectively use our products, which may result in unsatisfactory patient outcomes, patient injury, negative publicity or lawsuits against us. In addition, a failure to educate the medical community regarding our products may impair our ability to achieve market acceptance of our products. We are dependent on third-party manufacturers for many of our products. We contract with third-party manufacturers to produce most of our products, like many other companies in the medical device industry. If we or any such manufacturer fails to meet production and delivery schedules, it can have an adverse impact on our ability to sell such products. Further, whether we directly manufacture a product or utilize a third-party manufacturer, shortages and spoilage of materials, labor stoppages, product recalls, manufacturing defects and other similar events can delay production and inhibit our ability to bring a new product to market in timely fashion. For example, the supply of Trinity Evolution ® and Trinity Elite are derived from human cadaveric donors, and our ability to market the tissues depends on our supplier continuing to have access to donated human cadaveric tissue, as well as, the maintenance of high standards by the supplier in its processing methodology. The supply of such donors is inherently unpredictable and can fluctuate over time. Further, because Trinity Evolution ® and Trinity Elite are classified as HCT/Ps, they could from time to time be subject to recall for safety or administrative reasons. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate. Our operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past on a quarterly basis. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future and we may experience losses in the future depending on a number of factors, including the extent to which our products continue to gain or maintain market 33 Table of Contents acceptance, the rate and size of expenditures incurred as we expand our domestic and establish our international sales and distribution networks, the timing and level of reimbursement for our products by third-party payors, the extent to which we are subject to government regulation or enforcement and other factors, many of which are outside our control. We depend on our senior management team. Our success depends upon the skill, experience and performance of members of our senior management team, who have been critical to the management of our operations and the implementation of our business strategy. We do not have key man insurance on our senior management team, and the loss of one or more key executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our operations and development. In order to compete, we must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and our failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In order to compete, we must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and support positions. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, engineers, technical staff and sales representatives are critical to our business, and competition for experienced employees in the medical device industry can be intense. To attract, retain and motivate qualified employees, we utilize stock-based incentive awards such as employee stock options. If the value of such stock awards does not appreciate as measured by the performance of the price of our common stock and ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain and motivate our employees could be adversely impacted, which could negatively affect our results of operations and/or require us to increase the amount we expend on cash and other forms of compensation. We are party to numerous contractual relationships. We are party to numerous contracts in the normal course of our business. We have contractual relationships with suppliers, distributors and agents, as well as service providers. In the aggregate, these contractual relationships are necessary for us to operate our business. From time to time, we amend, terminate or negotiate our contracts. We are also periodically subject to, or make claims of breach of contract, or threaten legal action relating to our contracts. These actions may result in litigation. At any one time, we have a number of negotiations under way for new or amended commercial agreements. We devote substantial time, effort and expense to the administration and negotiation of contracts involved in our business. However, these contracts may not continue in effect past their current term or we may not be able to negotiate satisfactory contracts in the future with current or new business partners. Termination of our existing relationships with our independent sales representatives or distributors could have an adverse effect on our business. We sell our products in many countries through independent distributors. Generally, our independent sales representatives and our distributors have the exclusive right to sell our products in their respective territories and are generally prohibited from selling any products that compete with ours. The terms of these agreements vary in length, generally from one to ten years. Under the terms of our distribution agreements, each party has the right to terminate in the event of a material breach by the other party and we generally have the right to terminate if the distributor does not meet agreed sales targets or fails to make payments on time. Any termination of our existing relationships with independent sales representatives or distributors could have an adverse effect on our business unless and until commercially acceptable alternative distribution arrangements are put in place. In addition, we operate in portions of Europe that have been disproportionately affected by the global recession, such as Greece and Italy, and we bear risk that existing or future accounts receivable may be uncollected if these distributors or hospitals experience disruptions to their business that cause them to discontinue paying ongoing accounts payable or become insolvent. 34 Table of Contents We face risks related to foreign currency exchange rates. Because some of our revenue, operating expenses, assets and liabilities are denominated in foreign currencies, we are subject to foreign exchange risks that could adversely affect our operations and reported results. To the extent that we incur expenses or earn revenue in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, any change in the values of those foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could cause our profits to decrease or our products to be less competitive against those of our competitors. To the extent that our current assets denominated in foreign currency are greater or less than our current liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, we have potential foreign exchange exposure. The fluctuations of foreign exchange rates during 2013 have had an unfavorable impact of $1.1 million on net sales from continuing operations outside of the U.S. Although we seek to manage our foreign currency exposure by matching non-dollar revenues and expenses, exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the future. To minimize such exposures, we enter into currency hedges from time to time. At December 31, 2013, we had outstanding a currency swap to hedge a €28.7 million foreign currency exposure. We are subject to differing tax rates in several jurisdictions in which we operate. We have subsidiaries in several countries. Certain of our subsidiaries sell products directly to other Orthofix subsidiaries or provide marketing and support services to other Orthofix subsidiaries. These intercompany sales and support services involve subsidiaries operating in jurisdictions with differing tax rates. Tax authorities in these jurisdictions may challenge our treatment of such intercompany transactions. If we are unsuccessful in defending our treatment of intercompany transactions, we may be subject to additional tax liability or penalty, which could adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to differing customs and import/export rules in several jurisdictions in which we operate. We import and export our products to and from a number of different countries around the world. These product movements involve subsidiaries and third-parties operating in jurisdictions with different customs and import/export rules and regulations. Customs authorities in such jurisdictions may challenge our treatment of customs and import/export rules relating to product shipments under aspects of their respective customs laws and treaties. If we are unsuccessful in defending our treatment of customs and import/export classifications, we may be subject to additional customs duties, fines or penalties that could adversely affect our profitability. Our business is subject to economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international sales and operations. Since we sell our products in many different countries, our business is subject to risks associated with conducting business internationally. We anticipate that net sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total net sales. In addition, a number of our manufacturing facilities and suppliers are located outside the U.S. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements or other restrictive actions by foreign governments; • consequences from changes in tax or customs laws; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; • differing labor regulations; • differing protection of intellectual property; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and • application of the FCPA and other anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws to our operations. 35 Table of Contents We may incur costs and undertake new debt and contingent liabilities in a search for acquisitions, and we may be unsuccessful in our search for such acquisitions or have difficulty integrating any acquired businesses or product lines. We continue to search for viable acquisition candidates that would expand our market sector or global presence. We also seek additional products appropriate for current distribution channels. The search for an acquisition of another company or product line by us could result in our incurring costs from such efforts as well as the undertaking of new debt and contingent liabilities from such searches or acquisitions. Such costs may be incurred at any time and may vary in size depending on the scope of the acquisition or product transactions and may have a material impact on our results of operations. In addition, we compete with other medical device companies for these opportunities, and we may be unable to consummate such acquisitions on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. To the extent we are able to make acquisitions; we may experience difficulties in integrating any acquired companies or products into our existing business, including attrition of key personnel from acquired companies or businesses, and significant costs, charges or write downs. In addition, unforeseen operating difficulties integrating acquired companies or businesses could require us to devote significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be available to our existing businesses. To the extent we issue additional equity in connection with acquisitions, this may dilute our existing shareholders. We may incur significant costs or retain liabilities associated with disposition activity. We may from time to time sell, license, assign or otherwise dispose of or divest assets, the stock of subsidiaries or individual products, product lines or technologies which we determine are no longer desirable for us to own, some of which may be material. Any such activity could result in our incurring costs and expenses from these efforts, some of which could be significant, as well as retaining liabilities related to the assets or properties disposed of even though, for instance, the income-generating assets have been disposed of. These costs and expenses may be incurred at any time and may have a material impact on our results of operations. Our subsidiary, Orthofix Holdings, Inc., is party to a senior secured bank credit facility that contains significant financial and operating restrictions, including financial covenants that we may be unable to satisfy in the future. On August 30, 2010, Orthofix Holdings, Inc. (“Orthofix Holdings”) entered into a credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with respect to a new senior secured bank credit facility with a syndicate of financial institutions, and used these borrowings to repay all amounts owed under the prior credit facility. The Credit Agreement was further amended in May 2011. We, and certain of Orthofix Holdings’ direct and indirect subsidiaries, including Orthofix Inc. and Blackstone, have guaranteed the obligations of Orthofix Holdings under the senior secured bank facility. The senior secured bank facility provides for (1) a five-year term loan facility of $100 million, which was paid in full during 2012, and (2) a five-year revolving credit facility of $200 million of which we had $20 million outstanding and $180 million available to be drawn as of December 31, 2013. The Credit Agreement contains negative covenants applicable to us and our subsidiaries, including restrictions on indebtedness, liens, dividends and mergers and sales of assets. The Credit Agreement also contains certain financial covenants and a breach of these covenants could result in an event of default under the Credit Agreement, which could permit acceleration of the debt payments under the facility. We believe that we were in compliance with the negative covenants, and there were no events of default, at December 31, 2013. Further, we believe that we should be able to meet these financial covenants in future fiscal quarters; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so, and failure to do so could result in an event of default under the Credit Agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. 36 Table of Contents In the event we fail to comply with the terms of a “Limited Waiver” we have received from our lenders, we could be in default under our senior secured credit facility. On August 14, 2013, we and certain required lender parties (the “Lenders”) entered into a Limited Waiver (the “Limited Waiver”) pursuant to the Credit Agreement described above. Under the Limited Waiver, the Lenders collectively waived requirements under the Credit Agreement that we deliver quarterly consolidated financial statements with respect to the fiscal quarters ending on June 30, 2013 and September 30, 2013, and related financial covenant certificates, until the earlier of (i) March 31, 2014 or (ii) the date that is one day after such consolidated financial statements are publicly filed or released. In addition, the Limited Waiver provided that the restatement of our consolidated financial statements for any period ending on or before March 31, 2013 will not constitute a default or event of default provided that within one business day after the public release or filing of such restated consolidated financial statements, we deliver corrected consolidated financial statements and compliance certificates with respect to such restated periods and immediately pay any additional interest and other fees that would have been owed had applicable interest and fees originally been calculated based on the restated consolidated financial statements. As of the date hereof, we have delivered the quarterly consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended, and are in the process of delivering our audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended, December 31, 2013, as described above. However, in the event that we do not satisfy these respective obligations under the Limited Waiver and/or the Credit Agreement, an event of default could be declared under the Credit Agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. The conditions of the U.S. and international capital and credit markets may adversely affect our ability to draw on our current revolving credit facility, our ability to obtain future short- or long-term lending or our interest expense under our existing credit facility. We maintain a five-year revolving credit facility of $200 million upon which we had $180 million available to be drawn as of December 31, 2013, pursuant to the Credit Agreement described above. However, to the extent our business requires us to access the credit markets in the future and we are not able to do so, including in the event that lenders cease to lend to us, or cease to be capable of lending, for any reason, we could experience a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and ability to borrow additional funds. This might impair our ability to obtain sufficient funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development and other corporate purposes. Borrowings under our existing credit facility bear interest at a floating rate, which will be, at our option, either the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus an applicable margin or a base rate plus an applicable margin (in each case subject to adjustment based on financial ratios). Such applicable margin will be up to 3.25% for LIBOR borrowings and up to 2.25% for base rate borrowings depending upon a measurement of the consolidated leverage ratio with respect to the immediately preceding four fiscal quarters. Our overall effective interest rate as of December 31, 2013 on our senior secured debt was 2.7%. Our interest expense that we incur under our credit facilities could increase if there are increases in either the LIBOR rate or base rate. (See Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in this Form 10-K.) Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our consolidated results of operations (see Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” under the subheading “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates”). Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that leads us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. 37 Table of Contents Valuation adjustments to “goodwill”, which represents a significant portion of our total assets, may adversely affect our net income and we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. A substantial portion of our assets is comprised of goodwill. We may not receive the recorded value for our goodwill if we sell or liquidate our business or assets. The material concentration of goodwill increases the risk of a large charge to earnings if recoverability of goodwill is impaired, which would have an adverse effect on our net income. Provisions of Curaçao law may have adverse consequences for our shareholders. We were organized under the laws of the Netherlands Antilles in 1987, with our principal executive office in the Netherlands Antilles located on the island of Curaçao. Prior to October 10, 2010, the Netherlands Antilles, together with Aruba and the Netherlands, formed the Kingdom of the Netherlands, with Curaçao being an island territory of the Netherlands Antilles. Under a constitutional reform of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, agreed upon among the Netherlands Antilles, Aruba and the Netherlands, the Netherlands Antilles was dissolved effective October 10, 2010. Also effective October 10, 2010, Curaçao became an individual constitutional entity within the Kingdom of the Netherlands, having its own government and laws. As a result of the constitutional reform and the dissolution of the Netherlands Antilles, the Netherlands Antilles law ceased to exist and the Company is now a Curaçao legal entity subject to Curaçao law. Although Curaçao has become a separate and autonomous country with its own laws and regulations, the civil and corporate Netherlands Antilles law, as they applied to the Company before October 10, 2010, did not change under the constitutional reform. In effect, Curaçao has adopted the Netherlands Antilles civil and corporate law (to which the Company was subject) that was in effect prior to October 10, 2010. Our corporate affairs are therefore now governed by our Articles of Association and the corporate law of Curaçao as laid down in Book 2 of the Curaçao Civil Code (“CCC”). Although certain of the provisions of the CCC resemble certain of the provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the U.S., principles of law relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, the fiduciary duties of management and the rights of our shareholders may differ from those that would apply if the Company were incorporated in a jurisdiction within the U.S. For example, there is no statutory right of appraisal under Curaçao corporate law, nor is there a right for shareholders of a Curaçao corporation to sue a corporation derivatively. In addition, we have been advised by Curaçao counsel that it is unlikely that (1) the courts of Curaçao would enforce judgments entered by U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws and (2) actions can be brought in Curaçao in relation to liabilities predicated upon the U.S. federal securities laws. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 38 Table of Contents 