Item 1A. Risk Factors - ---------------------- In addition to the other information contained in the Form 10-K and the exhibits hereto, you should carefully consider the risks described below. These risks are not the only ones that we may face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. This Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below or elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We depend on our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, but we may not be able to maintain the confidentiality, or assure the protection, of these assets. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to protect our current and future technologies and products and to defend our intellectual property rights. If we fail to protect our intellectual property adequately, competitors may manufacture and market products similar to, or that compete directly with, ours. Numerous patents covering our technologies have been issued to us, and we have filed, and expect to continue to file, patent applications seeking to protect newly developed technologies and products in various countries, including the United States. Some patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy until the patent is issued. Because the publication of discoveries tends to follow their actual discovery by several months, we may not be the first to invent, or file patent applications on, any of our discoveries. Patents may not be issued with respect to any of our patent applications and existing or future patents issued to, or licensed by, us and may not provide adequate protection or competitive advantages for our products. Patents that are issued may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by our competitors. Furthermore, our patent rights may not prevent our competitors from developing, using or commercializing products that are similar or functionally equivalent to our products. We also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary expertise and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect, in part, by entering into confidentiality agreements with assignors, licensees, suppliers, employees and consultants. These agreements may be breached and there may not be adequate remedies in the event of a breach. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability or enforceability of confidentiality agreements. Moreover, our trade secrets and proprietary technology may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors. If patents are not issued with respect to our products arising from research, we may not be able to maintain the confidentiality of information relating to these products. In addition, when a patent relating to any of our products lapses, we may experience greater competition arising from new market entrants. Third parties may claim that we infringe on their proprietary rights and may prevent us from manufacturing and selling certain of our products. There has been substantial litigation in the orthopedic medical devices industry with respect to the manufacture, use and sale of new products. These lawsuits relate to the validity and infringement of patents or proprietary rights of third parties. We may be required to defend against allegations relating to the infringement of patent or proprietary rights of third parties. Any such litigation could, among other things: o require us to incur substantial expense, even if the costs of our defense are covered by insurance or we are successful in the litigation; o require us to divert significant time and effort of our technical and management personnel; o result in the loss of our rights to develop or make certain products; and o require us to pay substantial monetary damages or royalties in order to license proprietary rights from third parties or to satisfy judgments or to settle actual or threatened litigation. Although patent and intellectual property disputes within the orthopedic medical devices industry have often been settled through assignments, licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with these arrangements 21 may be substantial and could include the long-term payment of royalties. Furthermore, the required assignments or licenses may not be made available to us on acceptable terms. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or a failure to obtain necessary assignments or licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling some products or increase our costs to market these products. Reimbursement policies of third parties, cost containment measures and healthcare reform could adversely affect the demand for our products and limit our ability to sell our products. Our products are sold either directly by us or our independent sales representatives to our customers or to our independent distributors and purchased by hospitals, doctors and other healthcare providers. These products may be reimbursed by third-party payors, such as government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, private insurance plans and managed care programs. Third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device provided to a patient or used in a procedure does not meet medical necessity criteria; was not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods as determined by such third-party payor; was investigational; was used for an unapproved indication or if the policy holder's benefits are limited. Also, third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Limits put on reimbursement could make it more difficult for people to buy our products and reduce, or possibly eliminate, the demand for our products. In addition, in the event that governmental authorities enact additional legislation or adopt regulations that affect third-party coverage and reimbursement, demand for our products may be reduced with a consequent material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Third-party payors, whether private or governmental entities, also regularly institute coverage or reimbursement review proceedings designed to determine whether a particular product, treatment modality, device or therapy will be subject to reimbursement and, if so, at what level of payment. Orthofix Inc., a subsidiary of the Company, is currently involved in two such proceedings. The first is before the Medicare Coverage Advisory Committee ("MCAC") which advises the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS") on whether specific medical items and services are reasonable and necessary under applicable law. The MCAC is currently gathering factual information regarding the use of bone growth stimulators such as those manufactured by the Company and certain biological products (known generally as "orthobiologics") for the repair of non-union bone fractures. The second proceeding is being conducted by the General Accounting Office to determine whether an increase above the current level of reimbursement will be given to the Company's bone growth stimulation products in calendar year 2007, and, if so, at what level. The outcomes of these proceedings and whether they could limit or reduce coverage or reimbursement for the Company's products is currently unknown. It is also possible that the government's focus on coverage of off-label uses for FDA-approved devices could lead to changes in coverage policies regarding off-label uses by TriCare, Medicare and/or Medicaid. There can be no assurance that we or our distributors will not experience significant reimbursement problems in the future. Our products are sold in many countries, such as the United Kingdom, France, and Italy, with publicly funded healthcare systems. The ability of hospitals supported by such systems to purchase our products is dependent, in part, upon public budgetary constraints. Any increase in such constraints may have a material adverse effect on our sales and collection of accounts receivable from such sales. Management estimates that revenue by payor type is: o Independent Distributors 27% o Third Party Insurance 24% o International Public Healthcare Systems 19% o Direct (hospital) 19% o U.S. Government - Medicare, Medicaid, TriCare 9% o Self pay 2% 22 We may be subject to extensive government regulation that increases our costs and could limit our ability to market or sell our products. The medical devices we manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. These authorities regulate the development, approval, classification, testing, manufacture, labeling, marketing and sale of medical devices. For a description of these regulations, see Item 1 - "Business - Government Regulation." The approval by governmental authorities, including the FDA in the United States, is generally required before any medical devices may be marketed in the United States or other countries. We cannot predict whether in the future, the U.S. or foreign governments may impose regulations that have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The process of obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals to develop and market a medical device can be costly and time-consuming, and is subject to the risk that such approvals will not be granted on a timely basis if at all. The regulatory process may delay or prohibit the marketing of new products and impose substantial additional costs if the FDA lengthens review times for new devices. The FDA has the ability to change the regulatory classification of an approved device from a higher to a lower regulatory classification which could materially adversely impact our ability to market or sell our devices. Our subsidiary, Orthofix Inc., is currently involved in a proceeding before the FDA addressing whether the FDA classification of bone growth stimulation products should be reclassified from FDA Class III to FDA Class II. We are actively participating in this proceeding, and maintain that the current FDA Class III classification is correct. We do not know when or whether the FDA will reach a determination on this classification issue or whether any such determination would adversely impact our ability to market or sell these products. Our profitability depends, in part, upon the ability of the Company, our sales representatives, and our distributors to obtain and maintain all necessary certificates, permits, approvals and clearances from U.S. and foreign regulatory authorities and to operate in compliance with applicable regulations. If the FDA or other U.S. or foreign regulatory authority determines that we were not in compliance with applicable law or regulations, it could institute proceedings to detain or seize our products, issue a recall, impose operating restrictions, enjoin future violations and assess civil and criminal penalties against us, our officers or our employees and could recommend criminal prosecution to the Department of Justice. Any such consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may be subject to product liability claims that may not be covered by insurance and could require us to pay substantial sums. We are subject to an inherent risk of, and adverse publicity associated with, product liability and other liability claims, whether or not such claims are valid. We maintain product liability insurance coverage in amounts and scope that we believe is reasonable and adequate. There can be no assurance, however, that product liability or other claims will not exceed our insurance coverage limits or that such insurance will continue to be available on reasonable commercially acceptable terms, or at all. A successful product liability claim that exceeds our insurance coverage limits could require us to pay substantial sums and could have a material adverse effect on us. New developments by others could make our products or technologies non-competitive or obsolete. The orthopedic medical device industry in which we compete is undergoing, and is expected to continue to undergo, rapid and significant technological change. We expect competition to intensify as technological advances are made. New technologies and products developed by other companies are regularly introduced into the market, which may render our products or technologies non-competitive or obsolete. The approval and introduction of Bone Morphogenic Proteins (BMPs) by Medtronic Sofamor Danek Group have shown market acceptance as a substitute for autograft bone in spinal fusion surgeries. Our Spinal-Stim product is FDA approved for both failed fusions and healing enhancement as an adjunct to spinal fusion surgery, most typically for multilevel or high-risk patients. While BMPs are considered or classified as a bone growth material, 23 they have yet to be clinically proven to be effective or approved for use in the high-risk patients such as those who use our Spinal-Stim and our new Cervical-Stim products. Off-label use or the FDA approval of BMPs for risk indications could have an adverse effect on sales of our bone-growth stimulation products in high-risk patients. Additionally, in 2004, Artificial Disks were introduced into the market as an alternative to spinal fusions. The use of artificial disks on high risk patients could have an adverse effect on sales of our products in such high-risk patients. Our ability to market products successfully depends, in part, upon the acceptance of the products not only by consumers, but also by independent third parties. Our ability to market orthopedic products successfully depends, in part, on the acceptance of the products by independent third parties (including hospitals, doctors, other healthcare providers and third-party payors) as well as patients. Unanticipated side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning any of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to maintain hospital approvals or achieve acceptance by prescribing physicians, managed care providers and other retailers, customers and patients. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive. The medical devices industry is fragmented and highly competitive. We compete with a large number of companies, many of which have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and technical resources than we do. Many of our competitors may be able to develop products and processes competitive with, or superior to, our own. Furthermore, we may not be able to successfully develop or introduce new products that are less costly or offer better performance than those of our competitors, or offer purchasers of our products payment and other commercial terms as favorable as those offered by our competitors. For more information regarding our competitors, see Item 1 - "Business - Competition." We depend on our senior management team. Our success depends upon the skill, experience and performance of members of our senior management team, who have been critical to the management of our operations and the implementation of our business strategy. We do not have key man insurance on our senior management team, and the loss of one or more key executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our operations and development. Termination of our existing relationships with our independent sales representatives or distributors could have an adverse effect on our business. We sell our products in many countries through independent distributors. Generally, our independent sales representatives and our distributors have the exclusive right to sell our products in their respective territories and are generally prohibited from selling any products that compete with ours. The terms of these agreements vary in length from one to ten years. Under the terms of our distribution agreements, each party has the right to terminate in the event of a material breach by the other party and we generally have the right to terminate if the distributor does not meet agreed sales targets or fails to make payments on time. Any termination of our existing relationships with independent sales representatives or distributors could have an adverse effect on our business unless and until commercially acceptable alternative distribution arrangements are put in place. We are party to numerous contractual relationships. We are party to numerous contracts in the normal course of our business. We have contractual relationships with suppliers, distributors and agents, as well as service providers. In the aggregate, these contractual relationships are necessary for us to operate our business. From time to time, we amend, terminate or negotiate our contracts. We are also periodically subject to, or make claims of breach of contract, or threaten legal action relating to our contracts. These actions may result in litigation. At any one time, we have a number of negotiations under way for new or amended commercial agreements. We devote substantial time, effort and expense to the administration and negotiation of contracts involved in our business. However, these contracts may not continue in 24 effect past their current term or we may not be able to negotiate satisfactory contracts in the future with current or new business partners. We face risks related to foreign currency exchange rates. Because some of our revenue, operating expenses, assets and liabilities are denominated in foreign currencies, we are subject to foreign exchange risks that could adversely affect our operations and reported results. To the extent that we incur expenses or earn revenue in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, any change in the values of those foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could cause our profits to decrease or our products to be less competitive against those of our competitors. To the extent that our current assets denominated in foreign currency are greater or less than our current liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, we have potential foreign exchange exposure. We have substantial activities outside of the United States that are subject to the impact of foreign exchange rates. The fluctuations of foreign exchange rates during 2005 have had a positive impact of $1.2 million on net sales outside of the United States. Although we seek to manage our foreign currency exposure by matching non-dollar revenues and expenses, exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the future. To minimize such exposures, we enter into currency hedges from time to time. At December 31, 2005, we had outstanding a foreign currency hedge for 5.0 million Euros to balance our current liabilities denominated in Euros with our current assets denominated in Euros. We are subject to differing tax rates in several jurisdictions in which we operate. We have subsidiaries in several countries. Certain of our subsidiaries sell products directly to other Orthofix subsidiaries or provide marketing and support services to other Orthofix subsidiaries. These intercompany sales and support services involve subsidiaries operating in jurisdictions with differing tax rates. Tax authorities in such jurisdictions may challenge our treatment of such intercompany transactions under the residency criteria, transfer pricing provisions or any other aspects of their respective tax laws. If we are unsuccessful in defending our treatment of intercompany transactions, we may be subject to additional tax liability or penalty, which could adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to differing customs and import/export rules in several jurisdictions in which we operate. We import and export our products to and from a number of different countries around the world. These product movements involve subsidiaries and third-parties operating in jurisdictions with different customs and import/export rules and regulations. Customs authorities in such jurisdictions may challenge our treatment of customs and import/export rules relating to product shipments under aspects of their respective customs laws and treaties. If we are unsuccessful in defending our treatment of customs and import/export classifications, we may be subject to additional customs duties, fines or penalties that could adversely affect our profitability. Provisions of Netherlands Antilles law may have adverse consequences to our shareholders. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Articles of Association and the corporate law of the Netherlands Antilles as laid down in Book 2 of the Civil Code (CCNA). Although some of the provisions of the CCNA resemble some of the provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States, principles of law relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, the fiduciary duties of management and the rights of our shareholders may differ from those that would apply if Orthofix were incorporated in a jurisdiction within the United States. For example, there is no statutory right of appraisal under Netherlands Antilles corporate law nor is there a right for shareholders of a Netherlands Antilles corporation to sue a corporation derivatively. In addition, we have been advised by Netherlands Antilles counsel that it is unlikely that (1) the courts of the Netherlands Antilles would enforce judgments entered by U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws and (2) actions can be brought in the Netherlands Antilles in relation to liabilities predicated upon the U.S. federal securities laws. 25 Our business is subject to economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international sales and operations. Since we sell our products in many different countries, our business is subject to risks associated with conducting business internationally. Net sales outside the United States represented 30% of our total net sales in 2005. We anticipate that net sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total net sales. In addition, a number of our manufacturing facilities and suppliers are located outside the United States. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: o changes in foreign currency exchange rates; o changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions; o trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements or other restrictive actions by foreign governments; o consequences from changes in tax or customs laws; o difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; o differing labor regulations; o differing protection of intellectual property; and o unexpected changes in regulatory requirements. We may incur costs and undertake new debt and contingent liabilities in a search for acquisitions. We continue to search for viable acquisition candidates that would expand our market sector or global presence. We also seek additional products appropriate for current distribution channels. The search for or acquisition of another company or product line by us could result in our incurrence of costs from such efforts as well as the undertaking of new debt and contingent liabilities from such searches or acquisitions. Such costs may be incurred at any time and may vary in size depending on the scope of the acquisition or product transactions and may have a material impact on our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments - ----------------------------------- None. 26 