ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors, among others, could affect our actual results of operations and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and we assume no obligation to update this information. You should carefully consider the risks described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading prices of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The following risk factors are not the only risk factors facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. Nyer is reliant on current management for its success DAW is a niche business that relies on the unique qualifications of Nyer’s president and chief executive officer as well as the management team of the pharmacies. The healthcare landscape has become increasingly intricate with the addition of government programs and regulations such as Medicare Part D and the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003. Management’s knowledge of this landscape and its ability to operate within it is critical to Nyer’s success. As Nyer continues to grow, it may require the services of additional executives. The loss of certain other key employees could have a material effect upon the business of Nyer. At the present time, we have key-man term life insurance on the lives of our president and chief executive officer and the management team of the pharmacies. Control of Nyer is held by a few shareholders Nyer’s controlling shareholders are Michael and Lucille Curry, David Dumouchel, Mark Dumouchel (President and Chief Executive Officer), Wayne Gunter, and Donato Mazzola, all management of DAW. They each own 400 shares of Series 2 Stock which each has voting rights equal to 2,000 votes per share on any matter put to a vote of the Common Stock (equivalent to 800,000 votes of common stock). They also each own 119,565 shares of common stock, with the exception of Mark Dumouchel who owns 119,566 shares of common stock and Donato Mazzola who owns 119,965 shares of common stock. These holdings collectively represent approximately 58% of the outstanding voting securities of Nyer. As a result, although they are not part of a group nor subject to any voting agreements, if they vote the same way, they would effectively control the voting power of Nyer. Accordingly, they are in a position to elect a majority of Nyer’s directors and control the policies and operations of Nyer. Accordingly, they are in a position to elect a majority of Nyer’s directors and control the policies and operation of Nyer. 9 Many of our competitors have advantages over us All aspects of our business are subject to significant competition. Many of our competitors generally have substantially greater financial resources and other competitive advantages. Such greater resources and advantages may reduce our chance for economic success. Volatility in the trading volume and ability to remain listed on NASDAQ may negatively affect our stock price Because of the small volume of trading in our common stock, the market price of our common stock can be affected by increases in trading volume. In addition, our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market or NASDAQ. NASDAQ rules provide that if the market price of a share of common stock is less than $1 for 30 consecutive trading days, it can be delisted upon the happening of certain events. On September 15, 2009, NASDAQ notified us that we were not in compliance with this rule and that our common stock would be delisted if we did not regain compliance by March 15, 2010. If our common stock is delisted by NASDAQ, the market price of the common stock may be negatively impacted. The exercise of our outstanding stock options could adversely affect our outstanding common stock Our stock option plans are an important component of our compensation program for our employees, directors and consultants. As of June 30, 2009, we have outstanding options to purchase approximately 1,435,000 shares of common stock with exercise prices ranging from $0.88 to $6.44 per share, which represents approximately 27% of our outstanding common stock on a fully diluted basis. As of June 30, 2009, we also have investors who hold warrants to purchase 53,320 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $2.60 per share which expire in April 2010. The existence of such rights to acquire common stock at fixed prices may prove a hindrance to our efforts to raise future funding by the sale of equity. The exercise of such options or warrants will dilute the percentage ownership interest of our existing stockholders and may dilute the value of their ownership. The possible future sale of shares issuable on the exercise of outstanding options could adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. Further, the holders of the outstanding rights may exercise them at a time when we would otherwise be able to obtain additional equity capital on terms more favorable to us. Investors should not expect dividends Nyer intends to retain future earnings, if any, to finance its growth. Certain risks are inherent with operating pharmacies; our liability insurance may not be adequate to cover potential claims Our pharmacies are exposed to risks inherent in dispensing of prescription medications. These include the potential for dispensing errors and the providing of inadequate counseling or warning. Although we maintain professional liability insurance, claims may result in significant liability which may be beyond the limits of coverage. We can offer no assurance that coverage limits under our insurance policies will be adequate to protect against future claims, or that we will maintain adequate insurance on acceptable terms in the future. Our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows may adversely be affected if in the future our insurance coverage proves to be inadequate. 10 Our success may vary with regulation of and changes in the delivery of healthcare The health care industry is subject to extensive government regulation, licensure and operating procedures. Management cannot predict the impact that present or future regulations may have on operations of DAW. DAW’s pharmacists also may have a duty to warn customers regarding potential negative effects of a prescription drug if the warning could reduce or negate these effects. Additionally, DAW is subject to federal DEA and state regulations relating to pharmacy operations, purchasing, storing and dispensing of controlled substances. DAW is also subject to other federal regulations such as HIPAA. Moreover, as consolidation among physician provider groups, long-term care facilities and other alternate-site providers continues and provider networks are created, purchasing decisions may shift to individuals with whom DAW has not had prior selling relationships. There can be no assurance that DAW will be able to maintain its customer relationships in such circumstances or that such provider consolidation will not result in reduced operating margins. Also, national health care reform has been the subject of a number of legislative initiatives by Congress. Due to uncertainties regarding the ultimate features of health care reform initiatives and their enactment and implementation, DAW cannot predict which, if any, of such reform proposals will be adopted, when it may be adopted or what impact they may have on DAW or its customers. The actual announcement of reform proposals and the investment community’s reaction to such proposals, announcements by competitors of their strategies to respond to reform initiatives and general industry conditions could produce volatility in the trading and market price of Nyer’s common stock. We are experiencing pricing pressures from health care providers and third party payers A significant portion of the costs for prescription medication in the United States is funded by government and private insurance programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid and corporate health insurance plans. In recent years, private third party reimbursement plans have developed increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling prescription benefit costs through benefit redesign and the exploration of more cost-effective methods. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that reimbursement for the dispensing of prescription medications will not be limited or reduced and thereby adversely affect future sales by DAW. In addition, any substantial delays in reimbursement, significant reduction in coverage or payment rates from third party payers can have a material adverse effect on the financial results of the pharmacies. DAW is dependent on relationships with vendors DAW is dependent on vendors to supply inventory. Currently, DAW relies on its vendors to provide: (i) agreeable purchasing and delivery terms; (ii) sales performance incentives; (iii) financial support of sales and marketing programs; and (iv) promotional materials. There can be no assurance that DAW will maintain good relations with its vendors. During the year ended June 30, 2009, DAW had one vendor whose relationship accounts for over 90% of our inventory purchases. DAW believes that, if necessary, it can replace the vendor with no adverse cost effect; but DAW’s ability to maintain good relations with vendors will affect the profitability of its business. 11 DAW is dependent on employees DAW depends on the continued service of, and on the ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of pharmacists for our stores. Management believes that DAW’s success is dependent, in part, on its continued ability to attract and retain qualified and skilled pharmacists. Over the years, a significant shortage of pharmacists has developed due to industry competition as well as competition from other industries. This has resulted in continued upward pressure on pharmacist compensation packages. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract, hire and retain sufficient numbers of pharmacists necessary to continue to develop and grow its business. The inability to attract and retain a sufficient number of pharmacists could limit our ability to increase revenue and impact our ability to deliver high levels of customer service. We may fail to maintain effective internal control in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and in particular with Section 404, have resulted in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of resources. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. Although our management has determined that we had effective internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2009, we may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our future internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our internal control over financial reporting has not yet been audited by our independent registered public accounting firm. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. ITEM 