Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K and the exhibits hereto, you should carefully consider the risks described below. These risks are not the only ones that we may face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. This Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below or elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We have reached agreements in principle with the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts to resolve matters related to investigations of our regenerative stimulation business and our Blackstone subsidiary, and have taken charges related to both of these matters. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to reach a final resolution of these matters on these terms or otherwise. In April 2011, we reached an agreement in principle with the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts (the “Boston USAO”) to resolve certain criminal and civil matters related to a government investigation of our regenerative stimulation business (which we have also described in the past as our “bone growth stimulation business”). We are currently finalizing definitive written agreements with the Boston USAO, the United States Department of Justice (“DOJ”), and the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services (“OIG”) to finally resolve this matter, including a related qui tam lawsuit pending in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. We expect that under the terms of these agreements, we will pay $43 million, and we recorded a charge of $43 million during the first quarter of 2011 in anticipation of this agreement. We expect that (i) our subsidiary, Orthofix Inc., will plead to a violation of 18 U.S.C. 1516 (obstruction of federal audit) related to a June 2008 federal audit, and (ii) Orthofix International N.V. and Orthofix Inc will enter into a five-year Corporate Integrity Agreement (“CIA”) with the OIG as part of the resolution of these matters. In January 2012, we reached an agreement in principle with the Boston USAO to pay $32 million to resolve certain matters, including a qui tam complaint filed by Susan Hutcheson against Blackstone and the Company in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts, related to a government investigation of our Blackstone subsidiary, which we acquired in 2006. This settlement amount will be funded from proceeds we have received from the escrow fund established in connection with the agreement and plan of merger between the Company and Blackstone in 2006. We are currently in discussions with the Boston USAO, DOJ, and OIG as to the terms of definitive written agreements to finally resolve these matters, and the final settlement is subject to approval of such definitive agreements by each of these entities. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into definitive agreements to resolve these two investigations on these or other terms. The failure to settle either of these matters on these terms or otherwise could adversely affect our business and operations. In addition to the CIA described above, a final settlement of these matters could impose other regulatory or contractual restrictions on our business. If we are unable to comply with the CIA or any other such restrictions, or otherwise fail to meet the terms of any settlement, it could adversely affect our business and operations. We may be subject to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws, and could face substantial penalties if we are determined not to have fully complied with such laws. Healthcare fraud and abuse regulation by federal and state governments impact our business. Healthcare fraud and abuse laws potentially applicable to our operations include: · the Federal Health Care Programs Anti-Kickback Law, which constrains our marketing practices, educational programs, pricing and discounting policies, and relationships with healthcare practitioners and providers, by prohibiting, among other things, soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, in exchange for or to induce the purchase or recommendation of an item or service reimbursable under a federal healthcare program (such as the Medicare or Medicaid programs); · federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other federal government payors that are false or fraudulent; and · state laws analogous to each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including commercial insurers. Due to the breadth of some of these laws, there can be no assurance that we will not be found to be in violation of any such laws, and as a result we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations or the exclusion from participation in federal or state healthcare programs. Any penalties could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. In addition, it is possible that one or more private insurers with whom we do business may attempt to use any penalty we might be assessed or any exclusion from federal or state healthcare program business as a basis to cease doing business with us. If this were to occur, it could also have a material adverse effect on our business and financial position. We have reached an agreement in principle with the Department of Justice to resolve a matter we self-reported involving allegations of improper payments by local employees of one of our subsidiaries in Mexico under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to reach a final resolution of this matter on these terms or otherwise, and discussions regarding a settlement of this matter with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission are still ongoing. To the extent that we operate outside the U.S. we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”) which prohibits people, or companies subject to U.S. jurisdiction and their intermediaries, from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business or gaining an unfair business advantage. It also requires proper record keeping and characterization of such payments in our reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). 19 Table of Contents During a second quarter 2010 management review of Promeca S.A. de C.V. (“Promeca”), one of our Mexican subsidiaries, we received allegations of improper payments, allegedly made by certain of Promeca’s local employees in Mexico, to employees of a Mexican governmental healthcare entity. We engaged Hogan Lovells US LLP and Deloitte Financial Advisory Services LLP to conduct an internal investigation focusing on compliance with the FCPA and voluntarily contacted the SEC and the DOJ to advise both agencies that an internal investigation is underway. Promeca accounted for approximately one percent of our consolidated net sales and consolidated total assets. In January 2012, we reached an agreement in principle to settle these matters with DOJ. We are currently in discussions with DOJ as to the final terms of such resolution, and are also currently engaged in discussions regarding a settlement of such matters with the SEC. We previously recorded a charge related to this matter of $3.0 million during the first quarter of 2011, and have subsequently recorded an additional charge of $4.5 million during the first quarter of 2012 to establish an additional accrual in anticipation of a future final resolution of these matters with both DOJ and SEC. We believe based on information known to date that the likelihood of any additional loss in excess of the amount we have accrued is remote. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into a consensual resolution of these criminal and civil matters on terms consistent with our accrual or otherwise, and the failure to settle these matters on these terms or otherwise could adversely affect our business and operations. In addition, a final settlement of these matters could impose other regulatory or contractual restrictions on our business. If we are unable to comply with any such restrictions, or otherwise fail to meet the terms of any settlement, it could adversely affect our business and operations. We may not be able to successfully introduce new products to the market. During 2011, we continued to make improvements in revenues related to several new products we introduced to the market in 2009, including the Firebird ™ Spinal Fixation System, the PILLAR ™ SA interbody device and Trinity ® Evolution ™ , among others. We intend to introduce several new products to the market in 2012. Despite our planning, the process of developing and introducing new products is inherently complex and uncertain and involves risks, including the ability of such new products to satisfy customer needs and gain broad market acceptance, which can depend on the product achieving broad clinical acceptance, the level of third-party reimbursement and the introduction of competing technologies. We contract with third-party manufacturers to produce most of our products, like many other companies in the medical device industry. If we or any such manufacturer fails to meet production and delivery schedules, it can have an adverse impact on our ability to sell such products. Further, whether we directly manufacture a product or utilize a third-party manufacturer, shortages and spoilage of materials, labor stoppages, product recalls, manufacturing defects and other similar events can delay production and inhibit our ability to bring a new product to market in timely fashion. For example, the supply of Trinity ® Evolution ™ is derived from human cadaveric donors, and our ability to distribute the product depends on our supplier continuing to have access to donated human cadaveric tissue, as well as, the maintenance of high standards by the supplier in its processing methodology. The supply of such donors is inherently unpredictable and can fluctuate over time. Further, because Trinity ® Evolution ™ is classified as an HCT/P product, it could from time to time be subject to recall for safety or administrative reasons. We depend on our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, but we may not be able to maintain the confidentiality, or assure the protection, of these assets. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to protect our current and future technologies and products and to defend our intellectual property rights. If we fail to protect our intellectual property adequately, competitors may manufacture and market products similar to, or that compete directly with, ours. Numerous patents covering our technologies have been issued to us, and we have filed, and expect to continue to file, patent applications seeking to protect newly developed technologies and products in various countries, including the U.S. Some patent applications in the U.S. are maintained in secrecy until the patent is issued. Because the publication of discoveries tends to follow their actual discovery by several months, we may not be the first to invent, or file patent applications on any of our discoveries. Patents may not be issued with respect to any of our patent applications and existing or future patents issued to, or licensed by, us and may not provide adequate protection or competitive advantages for our products. Patents that are issued may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by our competitors. Furthermore, our patent rights may not prevent our competitors from developing, using or commercializing products that are similar or functionally equivalent to our products. We also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary expertise and continuing technological innovation that we protect, in part, by entering into confidentiality agreements with assignors, licensees, suppliers, employees and consultants. These agreements may be breached and there may not be adequate remedies in the event of a breach. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability or enforceability of confidentiality agreements. Moreover, our trade secrets and proprietary technology may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors. If patents are not issued with respect to our products arising from research, we may not be able to maintain the confidentiality of information relating to these products. In addition, if a patent relating to any of our products lapses or is invalidated, we may experience greater competition arising from new market entrants. Third parties may claim that we infringe on their proprietary rights and may prevent us from manufacturing and selling certain of our products. There has been substantial litigation in the medical device industry with respect to the manufacture, use and sale of new products. These lawsuits relate to the validity and infringement of patents or proprietary rights of third parties. We may be required to defend against allegations relating to the infringement of patent or proprietary rights of third parties. Any such litigation could, among other things: 20 Table of Contents · require us to incur substantial expense, even if we are successful in the litigation; · require us to divert significant time and effort of our technical and management personnel; · result in the loss of our rights to develop or make certain products; and · require us to pay substantial monetary damages or royalties in order to license proprietary rights from third parties or to satisfy judgments or to settle actual or threatened litigation. Although patent and intellectual property disputes within the orthopedic medical devices industry have often been settled through assignments, licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and could include the long-term payment of royalties. Furthermore, the required assignments or licenses may not be made available to us on acceptable terms. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or a failure to obtain necessary assignments or licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling some products or increase our costs to market these products. Reimbursement policies of third parties, cost containment measures and healthcare reform could adversely affect the demand for our products and limit our ability to sell our products. Our products are sold either directly by us or by independent sales representatives to customers or to our independent distributors and purchased by hospitals, doctors and other healthcare providers. These products may be reimbursed by third-party payors, such as government programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and Tricare, or private insurance plans and healthcare networks. Third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device provided to a patient or used in a procedure does not meet applicable payment criteria or if the policy holder’s healthcare insurance benefits are limited. Also, third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Limits put on reimbursement could make it more difficult for people to buy our products and reduce, or possibly eliminate, the demand for our products. In addition, should governmental authorities enact additional legislation or adopt regulations that affect third-party coverage and reimbursement, demand for our products and coverage by private or public insurers may be reduced with a consequential material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Third-party payors, including private and governmental entities, may revise coverage or reimbursement policies that address whether a particular product, treatment modality, device or therapy will be subject to reimbursement and, if so, at what level of payment. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”), in its ongoing implementation of the Medicare program, has obtained a related technical assessment of the medical study literature to determine how the literature addresses spinal fusion surgery in the Medicare population. The impact that this information will have on Medicare coverage policy for our products is currently unknown, but we cannot provide assurances that the resulting actions will not restrict Medicare coverage for our products. It is also possible that the government’s focus on coverage of off-label uses of devices approved by the FDA could lead to changes in coverage policies regarding off-label uses by TriCare, Medicare and/or Medicaid. There can be no assurance that we or our distributors will not experience significant reimbursement problems in the future related to these or other proceedings. Globally, our products are sold in many countries, such as the United Kingdom, France, and Italy, which have publicly funded healthcare systems. The ability of hospitals supported by such systems to purchase our products is dependent, in part, upon public budgetary constraints. Any increase in such constraints may have a material adverse effect on our sales and collection of accounts receivable from such sales. As required by law, CMS has continued efforts to implement a competitive bidding program for selected DMEPOS items paid for by the Medicare program. The initial implementation of the program in 2008 was terminated in that same year. CMS began the Round 1 Rebid process in 2009 and the implementation of the rebid round occurred on January 1, 2011. Our products are not yet included in the competitive bidding process. We believe that the competitive bidding process will principally affect products sold by our Sports Medicine business. We cannot predict which products from any of our businesses will ultimately be affected or when the competitive bidding process will be extended to our businesses. While some of our products are 21 Table of Contents designated by FDA as Class III medical devices and thus are not included within the competitive bidding program, some of our products may be encompassed within the program at varying times. There can be no assurance that the implementation of the competitive bidding program will not have an adverse impact on the sales of some of our products. We estimate that our revenue by payor type is: · Direct (hospital) 35 % · Third-Party Insurance 24 % · Independent Distributors 23 % · U.S. Government—Medicare, Medicaid, TriCare 10 % · International Public Healthcare Systems 6 % · Self-pay and other 2 % We and certain of our suppliers may be subject to extensive government regulation that increases our costs and could limit our ability to market or sell our products. The medical devices we manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. These authorities regulate the development, approval, classification, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing and sale of medical devices. Likewise, our use and disclosure of certain categories of health information may be subject to federal and state laws, implemented and enforced by governmental authorities that protect health information privacy and security. For a description of these regulations, see Item 1, “Business,” under the subheading “Government Regulation.” The approval or clearance by governmental authorities, including the FDA in the U.S., is generally required before any medical devices may be marketed in the U.S. or other countries. We cannot predict whether in the future, the U.S. or foreign governments may impose regulations that have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The process of obtaining FDA clearance and other regulatory clearances or approvals to develop and market a medical device can be costly and time-consuming, and is subject to the risk that such approvals will not be granted on a timely basis, if at all. The regulatory process may delay or prohibit the marketing of new products and impose substantial additional costs if the FDA lengthens review times for new devices. The FDA has the ability to change the regulatory classification of a cleared or approved device from a higher to a lower regulatory classification which could materially adversely impact our ability to market or sell our devices. We and certain of our suppliers also are subject to announced and unannounced inspections by the FDA to determine our compliance with FDA’s QSR and other regulations. If the FDA were to find that we or certain of our suppliers have failed to comply with applicable regulations, the agency could institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a public warning letter to more severe sanctions such as: fines and civil penalties against us, our officers, our employees or our suppliers; unanticipated expenditures to address or defend such actions; delays in clearing or approving, or refusal to clear or approve, our products; withdrawal or suspension of approval of our products or those of our third-party suppliers by the FDA or other regulatory bodies; product recall or seizure; interruption of production; operating restrictions; injunctions; and criminal prosecution. In June 2011, the FDA preannounced an inspection to close out the March 2009 Warning Letter issued to Blackstone Medical Inc, and to determine compliance to Orthofix’s Quality System Requirements as well as to our Tissue Distribution program. At the close of the inspection, Orthofix received one Quality System observation on a form 483 however the FDA inspector concluded that all the corrective actions pertinent to the warning letter were adequately completed. When the Agency concludes that an inspection is “closed” under 21 CFR 20.64 (d) (3), it will release a copy of the Establishment Inspection Report (EIR) to the inspected establishment. Orthofix received its EIR for the June 2011 inspection in August 2011 indicating that this inspection was closed. The corrective action associated with the one observation on the 483 was fully corrected by Orthofix and verified by the FDA in January 2012. The FDA also has the authority to request repair, replacement or refund of the cost of any medical device manufactured or distributed by us. Any of those actions could have a material adverse effect on our development of new laboratory tests, business strategy, financial condition and results of operations. The Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act (“Act”), which was signed into law in March of 2010, contains new “Sunshine Provisions” that will require, among other things, pharmaceutical, medical device, biological and medical supply manufacturers to begin reporting to the federal government payments made to recipients covered under the Act, such as, physicians and teaching hospitals. The Sunshine Provisions also require manufacturers and group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”) to report ownership interests by a physician. The reporting requirements under the Act take effect in March of 2013. Similar to other state disclosure laws currently in effect, such as Massachusetts and Vermont, penalties for non-compliance with the reporting requirements under the Act may result in civil monetary penalties. While we believe our operations monitor these laws to materially comply with reporting requirements, as these laws are subject to interpretation by state and federal regulatory authorities, there can be no assurance that compliance will not be challenged. The impact of United States healthcare reform legislation on us remains uncertain. In 2010 federal legislation to reform the United States healthcare system was enacted into law. The legislation is far-reaching and is intended to expand access to health insurance coverage, improve quality and reduce costs over time. We expect the new law will have a significant impact upon various aspects of our business operations. However, it is unclear how the new law will impact patient access to new technologies or reimbursement rates under the Medicare program. In addition, the new law imposes a 2.3 percent excise tax on medical devices scheduled to be implemented in 2013 that we expect will apply to United States sales of a majority of the medical device products. Many of the details of the new law will be included in new and revised regulations, which have not yet been promulgated, and require additional guidance and specificity to be provided by the Department of Health and Human Services, Department of Labor and Department of the Treasury. Accordingly, while it is too 22 Table of Contents early to understand and predict the ultimate impact of the new law on our business, the legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Our allograft and mesenchymal stem cell products could expose us to certain risks which could disrupt our business. Our Spinal Implants and Biologics business distributes a product under the brand name Trinity ® Evolution ™ . Trinity ® Evolution ™ is derived from human cadaveric donors, and our ability to distribute the product depends on our supplier continuing to have access to donated human cadaveric tissue, as well as the maintenance of high standards by the supplier in its processing methodology. The supply of such donors is inherently unpredictable and can fluctuate over time. We believe that Trinity ® Evolution ™ is properly classified under the FDA’s HCT/P regulatory paradigm and not as a medical device or as a biologic or drug. There can be no assurance that the FDA would agree that this category of regulatory classification applies to Trinity ® Evolution ™ and the reclassification of this product from a human tissue to a medical device could have adverse consequences for us or for the supplier of this product and make it more difficult or expensive for us to conduct this business by requiring premarket clearance or approval as well as compliance with additional post-market regulatory requirements. The success of our Trinity ® Evolution ™ product will depend on these products achieving broad market acceptance which can depend on the product achieving broad clinical acceptance, the level of third-party reimbursement and the introduction of competing technologies. Because Trinity ® Evolution ™ is classified as an HCT/P product, it can from time to time be subject to recall for safety or administrative reasons. Spinal Implants and Biologics also distribute allograft products that are derived from human tissue harvested from cadavers and which are used for bone reconstruction or repair and which are surgically implanted into the human body. We believe that these allograft products are properly classified as HCT/P products and not as a medical device or a biologic or drug. There can be no assurance that the FDA would agree that this regulatory classification applies to these products and any regulatory reclassification could have adverse consequences for us or for the suppliers of these products and make it more difficult or expensive for us to conduct this business by requiring premarket clearance or approval and compliance with additional post-market regulatory requirements. Moreover, the supply of these products to us could be interrupted by the failure of our suppliers to maintain high standards in performing required donor screening and infectious disease testing of donated human tissue used in producing allograft implants. Our allograft implant business could also be adversely affected by shortages in the supply of donated human tissue or negative publicity concerning methods of recovery of tissue and product liability actions arising out of the distribution of allograft implant products. We may be subject to product liability claims that may not be covered by insurance and could require us to pay substantial sums. We are subject to an inherent risk of, and adverse publicity associated with, product liability and other liability claims, whether or not such claims are valid. We maintain product liability insurance coverage in amounts and scope that we believe is reasonable and adequate. There can be no assurance, however, that product liability or other claims will not exceed our insurance coverage limits or that such insurance will continue to be available on reasonable, commercially acceptable terms, or at all. A successful product liability claim that exceeds our insurance coverage limits could require us to pay substantial sums and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The global recession and further adverse changes in general economic or credit market conditions could adversely impact our sales and operating results. The direction and strength of the U.S. and global economy has been uncertain due to the recent downturn in the economy and difficulties in the credit markets. If economic growth in the U.S. and other countries continues to remain low, or if the credit markets continue to be difficult to access, our distributors, suppliers and other business partners could experience significant disruptions to their businesses and operations which, in turn, could negatively impact our business operations and financial performance along with potentially causing us to to be unable to collect existing accounts receivable. In addition, continued weak consumer financial strength and demand could cause a substantial reduction in the sale of our products. Fluctuations in insurance expense could adversely affect our profitability. We hold a number of insurance policies, including product liability insurance, directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, property insurance and workers’ compensation insurance. If the costs of maintaining adequate insurance coverage should increase significantly in the future, our operating results could be materially adversely impacted. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate. Our operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past on a quarterly basis. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future and we may experience losses in the future depending on a number of factors, including the extent to which our products continue to gain or maintain market acceptance, the rate and size of expenditures incurred as we expand our domestic and establish our international sales and distribution networks, the timing and level of reimbursement for our products by third-party payors, the extent to which we are subject to government regulation or enforcement and other factors, many of which are outside our control. New developments by others could make our products or technologies non-competitive or obsolete. The orthopedic medical device industry in which we compete is undergoing, and is characterized by rapid and significant technological change. We expect competition to intensify as technological advances are made. New technologies and products developed by other companies are regularly introduced into the market, which may render our products or technologies non-competitive or obsolete. Our ability to market products successfully depends, in part, upon the acceptance of the products not only by consumers, but also by independent third parties. Our ability to market Spine, Orthopedic and Sports Medicine products successfully depends, in part, on the acceptance of the products by independent third parties (including hospitals, doctors, other healthcare providers and third-party payors) as well as patients. Unanticipated side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning any of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to maintain hospital approvals or achieve acceptance by prescribing physicians, managed care providers and other retailers, customers and patients. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive. The medical devices industry is highly competitive. We compete with a large number of companies, many of which have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and technical resources than we do. Many of our competitors may be able to develop products and processes competitive with, or superior to, our own. Furthermore, we may not be able to successfully develop or introduce new products that are less costly or offer better performance than those of our competitors, or offer purchasers of our products payment and other commercial terms as favorable as those offered by our competitors. For more information regarding our competitors, see Item 1, “Business,” under the subheading “Competition.” 23 Table of Contents We depend on our senior management team. Our success depends upon the skill, experience and performance of members of our senior management team, who have been critical to the management of our operations and the implementation of our business strategy. We do not have key man insurance on our senior management team, and the loss of one or more key executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our operations and development. In order to compete, we must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and our failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In order to compete, we must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and support positions. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, engineers, technical staff and sales representatives are critical to our business, and competition for experienced employees in the medical device industry can be intense. To attract, retain and motivate qualified employees, we utilize stock-based incentive awards such as employee stock options. If the value of such stock awards does not appreciate as measured by the performance of the price of our common stock and ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain and motivate our employees could be adversely impacted, which could negatively affect our results of operations and/or require us to increase the amount we expend on cash and other forms of compensation. Termination of our existing relationships with our independent sales representatives or distributors could have an adverse effect on our business. We sell our products in many countries through independent distributors. Generally, our independent sales representatives and our distributors have the exclusive right to sell our products in their respective territories and are generally prohibited from selling any products that compete with ours. The terms of these agreements vary in length, generally from one to ten years. Under the terms of our distribution agreements, each party has the right to terminate in the event of a material breach by the other party and we generally have the right to terminate if the distributor does not meet agreed sales targets or fails to make payments on time. Any termination of our existing relationships with independent sales representatives or distributors could have an adverse effect on our business unless and until commercially acceptable alternative distribution arrangements are put in place. In addition, we operate in portions of Europe that have been disproportionately affected by the global recession, such as Greece and Italy, and we bear risk that existing or future accounts receivable may be uncollected if these distributors or hospitals experience disruptions to their business that cause them to discontinue paying ongoing accounts payable or become insolvent. We are party to numerous contractual relationships. We are party to numerous contracts in the normal course of our business. We have contractual relationships with suppliers, distributors and agents, as well as service providers. In the aggregate, these contractual relationships are necessary for us to operate our business. From time to time, we amend, terminate or negotiate our contracts. We are also periodically subject to, or make claims of breach of contract, or threaten legal action relating to our contracts. These actions may result in litigation. At any one time, we have a number of negotiations under way for new or amended commercial agreements. We devote substantial time, effort and expense to the administration and negotiation of contracts involved in our business. However, these contracts may not continue in effect past their current term or we may not be able to negotiate satisfactory contracts in the future with current or new business partners. We face risks related to foreign currency exchange rates. Because some of our revenue, operating expenses, assets and liabilities are denominated in foreign currencies, we are subject to foreign exchange risks that could adversely affect our operations and reported results. To the extent that we incur expenses or earn revenue in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, any change in the values of those foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could cause our profits to decrease or our products to be less competitive against those of our competitors. To the extent that our current assets denominated in foreign currency are greater or less than our current liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, we have potential foreign exchange exposure. We have substantial activities outside of the U.S. that are subject to the impact of foreign exchange rates. The fluctuations of foreign exchange rates during 2011 have had a favorable impact of $6.5 million on net sales outside of the U.S. Although we seek to manage our foreign currency exposure by matching non-dollar revenues and expenses, exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the future. To minimize such exposures, we enter into currency hedges from time to time. At December 31, 2011, we had outstanding a currency swap to hedge a €33.5 million foreign currency exposure. We are subject to differing tax rates in several jurisdictions in which we operate. We have subsidiaries in several countries. Certain of our subsidiaries sell products directly to other Orthofix subsidiaries or provide marketing and support services to other Orthofix subsidiaries. These intercompany sales and support services involve subsidiaries operating in jurisdictions with differing tax rates. Tax authorities in these jurisdictions may challenge our treatment of such intercompany transactions. If we are unsuccessful in defending our treatment of intercompany transactions, we may be subject to additional tax liability or penalty, which could adversely affect our profitability. 24 Table of Contents We are subject to differing customs and import/export rules in several jurisdictions in which we operate. We import and export our products to and from a number of different countries around the world. These product movements involve subsidiaries and third-parties operating in jurisdictions with different customs and import/export rules and regulations. Customs authorities in such jurisdictions may challenge our treatment of customs and import/export rules relating to product shipments under aspects of their respective customs laws and treaties. If we are unsuccessful in defending our treatment of customs and import/export classifications, we may be subject to additional customs duties, fines or penalties that could adversely affect our profitability. Our business is subject to economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international sales and operations. Since we sell our products in many different countries, our business is subject to risks associated with conducting business internationally. Net sales outside the U.S. represented approximately 25% of our total net sales in 2011. We anticipate that net sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total net sales. In addition, a number of our manufacturing facilities and suppliers are located outside the U.S. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: · changes in foreign currency exchange rates; · changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions; · trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements or other restrictive actions by foreign governments; · consequences from changes in tax or customs laws; · difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; · differing labor regulations; · differing protection of intellectual property; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and · application of the FCPA and other anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws to our operations. We may incur costs and undertake new debt and contingent liabilities in a search for acquisitions. We continue to search for viable acquisition candidates that would expand our market sector or global presence. We also seek additional products appropriate for current distribution channels. The search for an acquisition of another company or product line by us could result in our incurring costs from such efforts as well as the undertaking of new debt and contingent liabilities from such searches or acquisitions. Such costs may be incurred at any time and may vary in size depending on the scope of the acquisition or product transactions and may have a material impact on our results of operations. We may incur significant costs or retain liabilities associated with disposition activity. We may from time to time sell, license, assign or otherwise dispose of or divest assets, the stock of subsidiaries or individual products, product lines or technologies which we determine are no longer desirable for us to own, some of which may be material. Any such activity could result in our incurring costs and expenses from these efforts, some of which could be significant, as well as retaining liabilities related to the assets or properties disposed of even though, for instance, the income-generating assets have been disposed of. These costs and expenses may be incurred at any time and may have a material impact on our results of operations. Our subsidiary, Orthofix Holdings, Inc.’s senior secured bank credit facility contains significant financial and operating restrictions, including financial covenants that we may be unable to satisfy in the future. On August 30, 2010, Orthofix Holdings, Inc. (“Orthofix Holdings”) entered into a new senior secured bank credit facility with a syndicate of financial institutions, and used these borrowings to repay all amounts owed under the old credit facility. The agreement was further amended in May 2011. We and certain of Orthofix Holdings’ direct and indirect subsidiaries, including Orthofix Inc., Breg, and Blackstone have guaranteed the obligations of Orthofix Holdings under the senior secured bank facility. The senior secured bank facility provides for (1) a five-year term loan facility of $100 million, of which $91.3 million was outstanding at December 31, 2011, and (2) a five-year revolving credit facility of $200 million upon which we had $117.4 million outstanding and $82.6 million available to be drawn as of December 31, 2011. The principal amount of the term loan facility amortizes at the rate of 5%, 15%, 25%, 25% and 30% in year 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, respectively. Amortization payments are due quarterly. The credit agreement contains negative covenants applicable to us and our subsidiaries, including restrictions on indebtedness, liens, dividends and mergers and sales of assets. The credit agreement also contains certain financial covenants and a breach of these covenants could result in an event of default under the credit agreement, which could permit acceleration of the debt payments under the facility. We believe that we were in compliance with the negative covenants at December 31, 2011 and there were no events of default. Further, we believe that we should be able to meet these financial covenants in future fiscal quarters, however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so, and failure to do so could result in an event of default under the credit agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. 25 Table of Contents The conditions of the U.S. and international capital and credit markets may adversely affect our ability to draw on our current revolving credit facility or obtain future short-term or long-term lending. Global market and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. In particular, the cost and availability of funding for many companies has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. These forces reached unprecedented levels in 2008, resulting in the bankruptcy or acquisition of, or government assistance to, several major domestic and international financial institutions. These events have significantly diminished overall confidence in the financial and credit markets. There can be no assurances that recent government responses to the disruptions in the financial and credit markets will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. We maintain a five-year revolving credit facility of $200 million upon which we had $82.6 million available to be drawn as of December 31, 2011. However, to the extent our business requires us to access the credit markets in the future and we are not able to do so, including in the event that lenders cease to lend to us, or cease to be capable of lending, for any reason, we could experience a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and ability to borrow additional funds. This might impair our ability to obtain sufficient funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development and other corporate purposes. The conditions of the U.S. and international capital and credit markets may adversely affect our interest expense under our existing credit facility. Our senior bank facility provides for a five-year term loan facility of $100 million for which $91.3 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2011, and a five-year revolving credit facility of $200 million upon which we had $117.4 million outstanding and $82.6 million available to be drawn as of December 31, 2011. Borrowings under the facility bear interest at a floating rate, which will be, at our option, either the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus an applicable margin or a base rate plus an applicable margin (in each case subject to adjustment based on financial ratios). Such applicable margin will be up to 3.25% for LIBOR borrowings and up to 2.25% for base rate borrowings depending upon a measurement of the consolidated leverage ratio with respect to the immediately preceding four fiscal quarters. Our overall effective interest rate as of December 31, 2011 on our senior secured debt was 3.4%. Our interest expense that we incur under our credit facilities could increase if there are increases in either the LIBOR rate or base rate. (See Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in this Form 10-K.) Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K). Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that leads us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. Goodwill and other identified intangibles could generate future asset impairments, which would be recorded as operating losses. The Financial Accounting Standards Board’s (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 350—Intangibles—Goodwill and Other requires that goodwill, including the goodwill included in the carrying value of investments accounted for using the equity method of accounting, and other intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives, such as trademarks, cease to be amortized. ASC Topic 350 requires that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives be tested at least annually for impairment. If we find that the carrying value of goodwill or a certain intangible asset exceeds its fair value, we will reduce the carrying value of the goodwill or intangible asset to the fair value, and we will recognize an impairment loss. Any such impairment losses are required to be recorded as non-cash operating losses. In addition, ASC Topic 360—Property, Plant and Equipment requires that intangible assets with definite lives, such as our developed technologies and distribution network assets, be tested for impairment if indicators of impairment, as defined in the standard, exist. Certain of the impairment tests require us to make an estimate of the fair value of goodwill and other intangible assets, which are primarily determined using discounted cash flow methodologies, research analyst estimates, market comparisons and a review of recent transactions. Since a number of factors may influence determinations of fair value of intangible assets, we are unable to predict whether impairments of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangibles will occur in the future. 26 Table of Contents Provisions of Curaçao law may have adverse consequences for our shareholders. We were organized under the laws of the Netherlands Antilles in 1987, with our principal executive office in the Netherlands Antilles located on the island of Curacao. Prior to October 10, 2010, the Netherlands Antilles, together with Aruba and the Netherlands, formed the Kingdom of the Netherlands, with Curaçao being an island territory of the Netherlands Antilles. Under a constitutional reform of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, agreed upon among the Netherlands Antilles, Aruba and the Netherlands, the Netherlands Antilles was dissolved effective October 10, 2010. Also effective October 10, 2010, Curaçao became an individual constitutional entity within the Kingdom of the Netherlands, having its own government and laws. As a result of the constitutional reform and the dissolution of the Netherlands Antilles, the Netherlands Antilles law ceased to exist and Orthofix is now a Curaçao legal entity subject to Curaçao law. Although Curaçao has become a separate and autonomous country with its own laws and regulations, the civil and corporate Netherlands Antilles law, as they applied to Orthofix before October 10, 2010, did not change under the constitutional reform. In effect, Curaçao has adopted the Netherlands Antilles civil and corporate law (to which Orthofix was subject) that was in effect prior to October 10, 2010. Our corporate affairs are therefore now governed by our Articles of Association and the corporate law of Curaçao as laid down in Book 2 of the Curaçao Civil Code (“CCC”). Although certain of the provisions of the CCC resemble certain of the provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the U.S., principles of law relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, the fiduciary duties of management and the rights of our shareholders may differ from those that would apply if Orthofix were incorporated in a jurisdiction within the U.S. For example, there is no statutory right of appraisal under Curaçao corporate law, nor is there a right for shareholders of a Curaçao corporation to sue a corporation derivatively. In addition, we have been advised by Curaçao counsel that it is unlikely that (1) the courts of Curaçao would enforce judgments entered by U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws and (2) actions can be brought in Curaçao in relation to liabilities predicated upon the U.S. federal securities laws. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 27 Table of Contents 