Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information provided in our reports, you should consider the following factors carefully in evaluating our business and us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or that are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, such as competitive conditions, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 8 Risks Related to our Industry We depend on prime contracts or subcontracts with the U.S. Government for a substantial portion of our sales, and our business would be seriously harmed if the government ceased doing business with us or our prime contractors or significantly decreased the amount of business it does with us or our prime contractors. We derived approximately 83% and 82% of our sales in 2010 and 2009, respectively, from U.S. Government contracts as either a prime contractor or a subcontractor. We expect that we will continue to derive a substantial portion of our sales for the foreseeable future from work performed under U.S. Government contracts, as we have in the past, and from new marketing efforts focused on state and local governments and commercial enterprises. If we or our prime contractors were suspended or prohibited from contracting with federal, state or local governments, or if our reputation or relationship with the federal, state or local governments and commercial enterprises were impaired, or if any of the foregoing otherwise ceased doing business with us or our prime contractors or significantly decreased the amount of business it does with us or our prime contractors, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results would be materially adversely affected. Our business could be adversely affected by changes in budgetary priorities of the U.S. Government. Because we derive a significant portion of our sales from contracts with the U.S. Government, we believe that the success and development of our business will continue to depend on our successful participation in U.S. Government contract programs. Changes in U.S. Government budgetary priorities could directly affect our financial performance. A significant decline in government expenditures, a shift of expenditures away from programs which call for the types of services that we provide or a change in U.S. Government contracting policies, could cause U.S. Governmental agencies to reduce their expenditures under contracts, to exercise their right to terminate contracts at any time without penalty, not to exercise options to renew contracts or to delay or not enter into new contracts. Any of those actions could seriously harm our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results. Moreover, although our contracts with governmental agencies often contemplate that our services will be performed over a period of several years, Congress usually must approve funds for a given program each government fiscal year and may significantly reduce or eliminate funding for a program. Significant reductions in these appropriations by Congress could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additional factors that could have a serious adverse effect on our U.S. Government contracting business include: · changes in U.S. Government programs or requirements; · budgetary priorities limiting or delaying U.S. Government spending generally, or by specific departments or agencies in particular, and changes in fiscal policies or available funding, including potential governmental shutdowns; · reductions in the U.S. Government's use of technology solutions firms; · a decrease in the number of contracts reserved for small businesses, or small business set asides, which could result in our inability to compete directly for these prime contracts; and · curtailment of the U.S. Government’s use of IT or related professional services. The Office of Management and Budget process for ensuring government agencies properly support capital planning initiatives, including information technology investments, could reduce or delay federal information technology spending and cause us to lose revenue. The Office of Management and Budget, or OMB, supervises spending by federal agencies, including enforcement of the Government Performance Results Act. This Act requires, among other things, that federal agencies make an adequate business justification to support capital planning initiatives, including all information technology investments. The factors considered by the OMB include, among others, whether the proposed information technology investment is expected to achieve an appropriate return on investment, whether related processes are contemporaneously reviewed, whether inter-operability with existing systems and the capacity for these systems to share data across government has been considered, and whether existing off-the-shelf products are being utilized to the extent possible. If our clients do not adequately justify proposed information technology investments to the OMB, the OMB may refuse funding for their new or continuing information technology investments, and we may lose revenue as a result. Our gross margin from our contracts will suffer if we are not able to maintain our pricing and utilization rates and control our costs. Our gross profit margin is largely a function of the rates we charge for our IT Services and the utilization rate, or chargeability, of our employees. Accordingly, if we are not able to maintain the rates we charge for our services or an appropriate utilization rate for our employees, we will not be able to sustain our gross profit margin and earn a sufficient amount to fund our operating expenses. The rates we charge for our IT Services are affected by a number of factors, including: · our clients' perception of our ability to add value through our services; 9 · competition; · introduction of new services or products by us or our competitors; · pricing policies of our competitors; and · general economic conditions. Our utilization rates are also affected by a number of factors, including: · seasonal trends, primarily as a result of holidays, vacations, and slowdowns by our clients, which may have a more significant effect in the fourth quarter; · our ability to transition employees from completed engagements to new engagements; · our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an appropriately balanced and sized workforce; and · our ability to manage employee turnover. We have implemented cost-management programs to manage our costs, including personnel costs, support and other overhead costs. Some of our costs, like office rents, are fixed in the short term, which limits our ability to reduce costs in periods of declining sales. Our current and future cost-management initiatives may not be sufficient to maintain our margins as our level of sales varies. If we fail to meet our contractual obligations to our clients, our ability to compete for future work and our financial condition may be adversely affected. If we fail to meet our contractual obligations, we could be subject to legal liability, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The provisions we typically include in our contracts which are designed to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services may not protect us or may not be enforceable under some circumstances or under the laws of some jurisdictions. It is possible, because of the nature of our business, that we may be exposed to legal claims in the future. We have errors and omissions insurance with coverage limits of $5,000,000 and a deductible payable by us of $100,000. The policy limits may not be adequate to provide protection against all potential liabilities. As a consulting firm, we depend to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for high-quality services to retain and attract clients and employees. As a result, claims made against us may damage our reputation, which in turn, could impact our ability to compete for new business. Unfavorable government audits could require us to refund payments we have received, to forego anticipated sales and could subject us to penalties and sanctions. The government agencies we work for generally have the authority to audit and review our contracts with them and/or our subcontracts with prime contractors. As part of that process, the government agency reviews our performance on the contract, our pricing practices, our cost structure and our compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. If the audit agency determines that we have improperly received payment or reimbursement, we would be required to refund any such amount. If a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities by us, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeitures of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or disqualification from doing business with the government. Any such unfavorable determination could adversely impact our ability to bid for new work which would have a negative impact on our business. 10 The IT services industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively. We operate in a highly competitive industry that includes a large number of participants. We believe that we currently compete principally with other IT professional services firms, technology vendors and the internal information systems groups of our clients. Many of the companies that provide services in our markets have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Our marketplace is experiencing rapid changes in its competitive landscape. Some of our competitors have sought access to public and private capital and others have merged or consolidated with better-capitalized partners. These changes may create more or larger and better-capitalized competitors with enhanced abilities to compete for market share generally and our clients specifically, in some cases, through significant economic incentives to clients to secure contracts. These competitors may also be better able to compete for skilled professionals by offering them large compensation incentives. In addition, one or more of our competitors may develop and implement methodologies that result in superior productivity and price reductions without adversely affecting the competitors' profit margins. In addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry into our markets and we have faced, and expect to continue to face, competition from new entrants into our markets. As a result, we may be unable to continue to compete successfully with our existing or any new competitors. The failure by Congress to approve budgets on a timely basis for the U.S. Government agencies we support could delay procurement of our services and solutions and cause us to lose future revenues. On an annual basis, Congress must approve budgets that govern spending by the U.S. Government agencies that we support. In years when Congress is not able to complete its budget process before the end of the U.S. Government’s fiscal year on September 30, Congress typically funds government operations pursuant to a continuing resolution. A continuing resolution allows U.S. Government agencies to operate at spending levels approved in the previous budget cycle. When the U.S. Government operates under a continuing resolution, it may delay funding we expect to receive from clients on work we are already performing and will likely result in new initiatives being delayed or in some cases cancelled. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to retain and attract qualified employees. We believe that our future success depends upon our ability to continue to train, retain, effectively manage and attract highly skilled technical, managerial, sales, and marketing personnel. Employee turnover is generally high in the IT services industry. If our efforts in these areas are not successful, our costs may increase, our sales efforts may be hindered, and the quality of our customer service may suffer. Although we invest significant resources in recruiting and retaining employees, there is often significant competition for certain personnel in the IT services industry. From time to time, we experience difficulties in locating enough highly qualified candidates in desired geographic locations, or with required specific expertise. Our contracts with the U.S. Government may be terminated or adversely modified prior to completion, which could adversely affect our business. U.S. Government contracts generally contain provisions, and are subject to laws and regulations, that give the U.S. Government rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts, including provisions permitting the U.S. Government to: · terminate our existing contracts; · reduce potential future revenues from our existing contracts; · modify some of the terms and conditions in our existing contracts; · suspend or permanently prohibit us from doing business with the U.S. Government or with any specific government agency; · impose fines and penalties; · subject us to criminal prosecution; · subject the award of some contracts to protest or challenge by competitors, which may require the contracting U.S. agency or department to suspend our performance pending the outcome of the protest or challenge and which may also require the government to solicit new bids for the contract or result in the termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract; · suspend work under existing multiple year contracts and related task orders if the necessary funds are not appropriated by Congress; 11 · decline to exercise an option to extend an existing multiple year contract; and · claim rights in technologies and systems invented, developed or produced by us. The U.S. Government may terminate a contract with us either "for convenience" (for instance, due to a change in its perceived needs or its desire to consolidate work under another contract) or if we default by failing to perform under the contract. If the U.S. Government terminates a contract with us for convenience, we generally would be entitled to recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. If the U.S. Government terminates a contract with us based upon our default, we generally would be denied any recovery for undelivered work, and instead may be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in procuring undelivered items from an alternative source. We may in the future receive show-cause or cure notices under contracts that, if not addressed to the U.S. Government's satisfaction, could give the government the right to terminate those contracts for default or to cease procuring our services under those contracts. Our U.S. Government contracts typically have terms of one or more base years and one or more option years. Many of the option periods cover more than half of the contract's potential term. U.S. Governmental agencies generally have the right not to exercise options to extend a contract. A decision to terminate or not to exercise options to extend our existing contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our U.S. Government contracts also contain "organizational conflict of interest" clauses that could limit our ability to compete for certain related follow-on contracts. For example, when we work on the design of a particular solution, we may be precluded from competing for the contract to install that solution. While we actively monitor our contracts to avoid these conflicts, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to avoid all organizational conflict of interest issues. In addition, U.S. Government contracts are frequently awarded only after formal competitive bidding processes, which have been and may continue to be protracted, and typically impose provisions that permit cancellation in the event that funds are unavailable to the public agency. The competitive bidding process presents a number of risks, including the following: · we expend substantial funds, managerial time and effort to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that we may not win; · we may be unable to estimate accurately the resources and cost that will be required to service any contract we win, which could result in substantial cost overruns; and · we may encounter expense and delay if our competitors protest or challenge awards of contracts to us in competitive bidding, and any such protest or challenge could result in a requirement to resubmit bids on modified specifications or in the termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract. We may lose money on some contracts if we do not accurately estimate the expenses, time and resources necessary to satisfy our contractual obligations. We enter into two types of U.S. Government contracts for our services: time-and-materials and fixed-price. For 2010 and 2009, we derived revenue from such contracts as follows: Contract type 2010 2009 Time and materials 49 % 57 % Fixed price 51 % 43 % 100 % 100 % 12 Each of these types of contracts, to varying degrees, involves some risk that we could underestimate our cost of fulfilling the contract, which may reduce the profit we earn or lead to a financial loss on the contract. Under time and materials contracts, we are reimbursed for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. We assume financial risk on time and material contracts because we assume the risk of performing those contracts at negotiated hourly rates. Under fixed-price contracts, we perform specific tasks for a fixed price. Compared to cost-plus contracts, fixed price contracts generally offer higher margin opportunities, but involve greater financial risk because we bear the impact of cost overruns and bear the risk of underestimating the level of effort required to perform the contractual obligations, which could result in increased costs and expenses. Our profits could be adversely affected if our costs under any of these contracts exceed the assumptions we used in bidding for the contract. Over time, and particularly if we acquire other businesses, our contract mix may change, thereby potentially increasing our exposure to these risks. If we fail to establish and maintain important relationships with government entities and agencies, our ability to successfully bid for new business may be adversely affected. To develop new business opportunities, we rely on establishing and maintaining relationships with various government entities and agencies. We may be unable to successfully maintain our relationships with government entities and agencies, and any failure to do so could materially adversely affect our ability to compete successfully for new business. Our business may suffer if our facilities or our employees are unable to obtain or retain the security clearances or other qualifications needed to perform services for our clients. Many of our U.S. Government contracts require employees and facilities used in specific engagements to hold security clearances and to clear National Agency Checks and Defense Security Service checks. Some of our contracts require us to employ personnel with specified levels of education, work experience and security clearances. Depending on the level of clearance, security clearances can be difficult and time-consuming to obtain. If our employees or our facilities lose or are unable to obtain necessary security clearances or successfully clear necessary National Agency or Defense Security Service checks, we may not be able to win new business and our existing clients could terminate their contracts with us or decide not to renew them, and in each instance our operating results could be materially adversely affected. We must comply with a variety of laws, regulations and procedures and our failure to comply could harm our operating results. We must observe laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts which affect how we do business with our clients and impose added costs on our business. For example, the Federal Acquisition Regulation and the industrial security regulations of the Department of Defense and related laws include provisions that: · allow our U.S. Government clients to terminate or not renew our contracts if we come under foreign ownership, control or influence; · require us to disclose and certify cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; · require us to prevent unauthorized access to classified information; and · require us to comply with laws and regulations intended to promote various social or economic goals. We are subject to industrial security regulations of the DHS and other U.S. Government agencies that are designed to safeguard against foreigners' access to classified information. If we were to come under foreign ownership, control or influence, we could lose our facility security clearance, which could result in our U.S. Government customers terminating or deciding not to renew our contracts, and could impair our ability to obtain new contracts. 13 In addition, our employees often must comply with procedures required by the specific agency for which work is being performed, such as time recordation or prohibition on removal of materials from a location. Our failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or procedures, including U.S. Government procurement regulations and regulations regarding the protection of classified information, could result in contract termination, loss of security clearances, suspension or prohibition from contracting with the U.S. Government, civil fines and damages and criminal prosecution and penalties, any of which could materially adversely affect our business. The U.S. Government may revise its procurement or other practices in a manner adverse to us. The U.S. Government may revise its procurement practices or adopt new contracting rules and regulations, such as cost accounting standards. It could also adopt new contracting methods relating to GSA contracts, government-wide contracts, or adopt new standards for contract awards intended to achieve certain social or other policy objectives, such as establishing new set-aside programs for small or minority-owned businesses. In addition, the U.S. Government may face restrictions from new legislation or regulations, as well as pressure from government employees and their unions, on the nature and amount of services the U.S. Government may obtain from private contractors. These changes could impair our ability to obtain new contracts or contracts under which we currently perform when those contracts are put up for recompetition bids. Any new contracting methods could be costly or administratively difficult for us to implement, and, as a result, could harm our operating results. For example, the Truthfulness, Responsibility and Accountability in Contracting Act, proposed in 2001, would have limited and severely delayed the U.S. Government's ability to use private service contractors. Although this proposal was not enacted, it or similar legislation could be proposed at any time. Any reduction in the U.S. Government's use of private contractors to provide federal information technology services could materially adversely impact our business. Failure to maintain strong relationships with other government contractors could result in a decline in our sales. We derived approximately 94% of our sales in 2010 from contracts under which we acted as a subcontractor. Our subcontracts with prime contractors contain many of the same provisions as the prime contracts and therefore carry many of the same risks previously identified in these Risk Factors. As a subcontractor, we often lack control over fulfillment of a contract, and poor performance on the contract by others could tarnish our reputation, even when we perform as required. We expect to continue to depend on relationships with other contractors for a significant portion of our sales in the foreseeable future. Moreover, our sales and operating results could be materially adversely affected if any prime contractor chooses to offer services of the type that we provide or if any prime contractor teams with other companies to independently provide those services. Risks Related to our Business We experienced operating losses and net losses in 2010 and 2009. We experienced operating losses of approximately $846,000 in 2010 and $673,000 in 2009, and net losses of approximately $1.1 million in 2010 and $966,000 in 2009. As of December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $33.3 million. We have maintained our selling expenses for marketing and selling efforts at approximately $1.6 million and $1.7 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively, which have contributed to our net losses. Until we close new contracts and earn additional sales or curtail our marketing and selling efforts, we cannot assure you when we will be profitable on a consistent basis, or at all. We are highly leveraged, which increases our operating deficit and makes it difficult for us to grow. At December 31, 2010, we had current liabilities, including trade payables, of approximately $4.7 million and long-term liabilities of $2.4 million. We had a working capital deficit of approximately $3.9 million and a current ratio of .16. We may continue to experience working capital shortages that impair our business operations and growth strategy if we continue to experience operating losses or incur net losses. As a result, our business, operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. 14 We have significant liabilities related to the O&W pension plan. As of December 31, 2004, we sold or closed all of our prior businesses. The following discussion of the Osley & Whitney, Inc. (O&W) defined benefit pension plan (O&W Plan) relates to the business that was closed and sold and its current effect on our operations and financial position. Prior to December 30, 2002, we owned 100% of the common stock of O&W. On December 30, 2002, we sold 100% of the O&W common stock to a third party, but continued to act as the sponsor of the O&W Plan. Although we continued to act as the sponsor of the O&W Plan after the sale, during 2007 management determined that it had no legal obligation to do so. At December 31, 2010, the O&W Plan had an accrued pension obligation liability of $4,314,883 and an accumulated other comprehensive loss of $2,961,147 which we recorded as a reduction of stockholders’ deficiency. We have accrued amounts related to excise taxes on unfunded contributions for 2003, 2004 and 2005 of approximately $470,000 at December 31, 2010 and potentially could incur additional excise taxes of 10% and additional excise taxes of 100% of required plan contributions for each year that contributions were not made. It was determined by the Department of the Treasury (Treasury) that we are the O&W Plan sponsor. We may be required to contribute amounts for the O&W Plan years 2003 through 2010 and in future years to fund the deficiency. We did not make any contributions in 2004 or 2006 through 2010. During 2005, we did not make all required contributions. Currently, we do not have the funds available to make the required contributions of approximately $2.2 million. We received a report from the Treasury that stated that the Treasury staff disagreed with our position regarding our role as O&W Plan sponsor and as a result, we are responsible for excise taxes attributed to the funding deficiency of $1,836,359 for the years 2003 through 2007 which funding deficiency can only be corrected by contributing $1,836,359 to the O&W Plan. The report also states that proposed 10% excise taxes of $348,500, penalties for late payment of excise taxes of approximately $1.2 million, and 100% excise taxes of approximately $3.5 million related to the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007 may be imposed. Penalties for late payment may be removed if we provide reasonable cause for not paying the excise taxes and the Treasury concurs with our position. We and our legal counsel in connection with this matter disagree with significant aspects of both the factual findings and legal conclusions set forth in the Treasury’s report and, in accordance with Treasury procedures, have responded with a detailed analysis of our opposition to their findings. We will diligently pursue all appropriate steps to perfect our appeal rights and attempt to prevail on the merits of our position, which will include filing a protest, requesting an appeals conference, and, if needed, petitioning the tax court and advocating our position in that forum. On April 29, 2009, acting for the O&W Plan, we sent the O&W Plan participants a notice of intent to terminate the O&W Plan in a distress termination with a proposed termination date of June 30, 2009. We also provided additional documentation regarding our status and the status of the O&W Plan. The termination of the O&W Plan is subject to approval by the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC). We have provided information to the PBGC which our management believes satisfies the requirements of the PBGC. The PBGC has neither acted on the information that we provided nor requested additional information. During 2006, the PBGC placed a lien on all of our assets to secure the contributions due to the O&W Plan. This lien is subordinate to liens that secure accounts receivable financing and certain notes payable. There is no assurance, that our current resources or cash flow from operations will be adequate to fund the liabilities under the O&W Plan if the Treasury does not concur with our position or that we will be successful in raising additional working capital when necessary. Our failure to raise necessary working capital could force us to curtail operations, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 15 We have been dependent on a limited number of high net worth individuals to fund our working capital needs. From 2003 through 2010, we received approximately $3.0 million in a combination of equity, debt conversion and debt transactions from a limited number of high net worth investors. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to continue to raise additional capital from this group of investors, or that we will be able to secure funding from additional sources. Certain debt holders have agreed to extensions of the maturity dates of their note. We have principal maturities of current notes payable to related parties of $174,000, $30,000 to a third party, and current maturities of long-term obligations of $25,954. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain further extensions of maturity dates for long-term notes payable when they mature or that we will be able to repay or otherwise refinance the notes at their scheduled maturities. We may require additional financing in the future, which may not be available on acceptable terms. We may require additional funds for working capital and general corporate purposes. We cannot provide assurance that adequate additional financing will be available or, if available, will be offered on acceptable terms. Moreover, our IT services billings generate accounts receivable that are generally paid within 30 to 60 days from the invoice date. The cost of those sales generally consists of employee salaries and benefits that we must pay prior to our receipt of the accounts receivable to which these costs relate. We therefore need sufficient cash resources to cover such employee-related costs which, in many cases, require us to borrow funds on disadvantageous terms. We have secured an accounts receivable financing line of credit from an independent finance organization institution that allows us to sell selected accounts receivable invoices to the financial institution with full recourse against us in the amount of $2 million, including a sublimit for one major client of $1.5 million. This provides us with the cash needed to finance certain costs and expenses. At December 31, 2010, we had financing availability, based on eligible accounts receivable, of approximately $230,000 under this line. We pay fees based on the length of time that the invoice remains unpaid. As we grow, additional working capital may be required to support this difference in the timing of cash receipts versus payroll disbursements. Moreover, our accounts receivable financing lender may decide to cease subsequent advances at any time in its discretion, upon our failure to meet certain contractual requirements or upon the occurrence of certain events or contingencies that are out of our control. In such event, our short-term cash requirements would exceed available cash on hand resulting in material adverse consequences to our business. Finally, any additional equity financing and conversions by the holders of existing notes payable to common stock will be dilutive to stockholders. Debt financings, if available, may involve restrictive covenants that further limit our ability to make decisions that we believe will be in our best interests. In the event we cannot obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us when required, our operations will be materially adversely affected and we may have to cease or substantially reduce operations. Recent events affecting the credit markets may restrict our ability to access additional financing. Over the last several years, the U.S. and worldwide capital and credit markets have experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which have caused market prices of many stocks to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive, and in some cases have resulted in the unavailability of financing. Continued uncertainty in the capital and credit markets may negatively impact our business, including our ability to access additional financing at reasonable terms, which may negatively affect our ability to fund current operations or expand our business. A prolonged downturn in the financial markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing, and may require us to adjust our business plan accordingly. These events also may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of our equity securities. Disruptions in the financial markets may have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock and other adverse effects on our business. 16 If we do not successfully integrate the businesses that we acquire, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We may grow our business by acquiring companies and businesses that we feel have synergy and will complement our business plan. As such, we periodically evaluate potential business combinations. We may be unable to profitably manage businesses that we may acquire or we may fail to integrate them successfully without incurring substantial expenses, delays or other problems that could negatively impact our results of operations. Acquisitions involve additional risks, including: · diversion of management's attention; · difficulty in integration of the acquired business; · loss of significant clients acquired; · loss of key management and technical personnel acquired; · assumption of unanticipated legal or other financial liabilities; · becoming significantly leveraged as a result of debt incurred to finance acquisitions; · unanticipated operating, accounting or management difficulties in connection with the acquired entities; · costs of our personnel’s time, travel, legal services and accounting services in connection with a proposed acquisition; that may not be recovered; · impairment charges for acquired intangible assets, including goodwill that decline in value; and · dilution to our earnings per share as a result of issuing shares of our stock to finance acquisitions. Also, client dissatisfaction or performance problems with an acquired business could materially and adversely affect our reputation as a whole. Further, the acquired business may not achieve the sales and earnings we anticipated. We may evaluate from time to time, on a selective basis, other strategic acquisitions if we believe they will help us obtain well-trained, high-quality employees, new product or service offerings, additional industry expertise, a broader client base or an expanded geographic presence. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying candidates or consummating acquisitions on terms that are acceptable or favorable to us. In addition, there can be no assurance that financing for acquisitions will be available on terms that are acceptable or favorable. We may issue shares of our common stock as part of the purchase price for some or all of these acquisitions. Future issuances of our common stock in connection with acquisitions may dilute our earnings per share. If we fail to adequately manage the size of our business, it could have a severe negative impact on our financial results or stock price. Our management believes that in order to be successful we must appropriately manage the size of our business. This may mean reducing costs and overhead in certain economic periods, and selectively growing in periods of economic expansion. In addition, we will be required to implement operational, financial and management information procedures and controls that are efficient and appropriate for the size and scope of our operations. The management skills and systems currently in place may not be adequate and we may not be able to manage any significant reductions or growth effectively. 17 We may have difficulties in managing our growth. Our future growth depends, in part, on our ability to implement and expand our financial control systems and to expand, train and manage our employee base and provide support to an expanded customer base. If we cannot manage growth effectively, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, business and financial condition. In addition, acquisitions and expansion involve substantial infrastructure costs and working capital. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to integrate acquisitions, if any, and expansions efficiently. Similarly, we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to expand or that any expansion will enhance our profitability. If we do not achieve sufficient sales growth to offset increased expenses associated with our expansion, our results will be adversely affected. We depend on the continued services of our key personnel. Our future success depends, in part, on the continuing efforts of our senior executive officers, James Villa, James D. Frost, and William S. Hogan. The loss of any of these key employees may materially adversely affect our business. We may lose revenue and our cash flow and profitability could be negatively affected if expenditures are incurred prior to final receipt of a contract or contract funding modification. We provide professional services and sometimes procure materials on behalf of our government clients under various contract arrangements. From time to time, in order to ensure that we satisfy our clients’ delivery requirements and schedules, we may elect, based on verbal authorization, to initiate procurements or provide services in advance of receiving formal written contractual authorization from the government client or a prime contractor. If our government or prime contractor requirements should change or the government directs the anticipated procurement to a contractor other than us, or if the materials become obsolete or require modification before we are under contract for the procurement, our investment might be at risk. If we do not receive the required funding, our cost of services incurred in excess of contractual funding may not be recoverable. This could reduce anticipated revenue or result in a loss, negatively affecting our cash flow and profitability. Our employees or subcontractors may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, which could cause us to lose contracts. While we have ethics and compliance programs in place, we are exposed to the risk that employee fraud or other misconduct could occur. We enter into arrangements with prime contractors and joint venture partners to bid on and execute particular contracts or programs. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that fraud or other misconduct or improper activities by such persons may occur. Misconduct by employees, prime contractors or joint venture partners could include intentional failures to comply with federal laws, including U.S. Government procurement regulations, proper handling of sensitive or classified information, compliance with the terms of our contracts that we receive, and falsifying time records or failures to disclose unauthorized or unsuccessful activities to us. These actions could lead to civil, criminal, and/or administrative penalties (including fines, imprisonment, suspension and/or bars from performing U.S. Government contracts) and harm our reputation. The precautions we take to prevent and detect such activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses, and such misconduct by employees, prime contractors or joint venture partners could result in serious civil or criminal penalties or sanctions or harm to our reputation, which could cause us to lose contracts or cause a reduction in revenue. Risks Related to our Common Stock Certain stockholders own a significant portion of our stock and may delay or prevent a change in control or adversely affect the stock price through sales in the open market. As of March 30, 2011, one individual and three related parties or their affiliates owned approximately 12.7%, 5.5%, 3.8%, and 1.9%, respectively, (23.9% in the aggregate) of our outstanding common stock (excluding stock options, warrants and convertible notes). Two related parties that hold convertible notes payable have the right to convert notes payable and accrued interest into shares of common stock at $.05 per share. Another related party has the right to convert a note payable at $.16 per share. If these parties converted all of the principal and accrued interest into common stock, these three individuals, including their current holdings, would own approximately 23.8%, 12.6% and 4.5%, respectively, of our then outstanding common stock. However, such notes may not be converted if such conversion would result in a change in control which would limit the use of our net operating loss carryforwards. 18 We estimate at March 30, 2011 that substantially all convertible notes payable and accrued interest due to all related parties could be converted to shares of common stock, without affecting a change of control that would limit the use of our net operating loss carryforwards. If these related party holders converted all of their notes payable and accrued interest into shares of common stock, then three related party individuals or their affiliates would own approximately 40.9% in the aggregate of our then outstanding common stock (excluding stock options and warrants). The concentration of large percentages of ownership by a single stockholder may delay or prevent a change in control. Additionally, the sale of a significant number of our shares in the open market by a single stockholder or otherwise could adversely affect our stock price. The price of our common stock may be adversely affected by the possible issuance of shares as a result of the conversion of notes payable and exercise of outstanding options. At March 30, 2011, we had outstanding 26,461,883 shares of our common stock. Three third party note holders have the right to convert an aggregate of $150,000 of principal into shares of common stock at $.05 per share. One third party note holder has the right to convert $175,000 of principal into shares of common stock at $.25 per share. Although these conversions are not in the money at December 31, 2010, if all of these third party holders converted the entire principal into common shares, these four holders would own 3,700,000 shares of our common stock or approximately 12.3 % of our then outstanding common stock. At December 31, 2010, we have a total of 6,414,500 stock options that have been granted at an average exercise price of $.22 per share and warrants that are exercisable into 470,000 shares of common stock at an average exercise price of $.35 per share. Since December 31, 2010, we have issued an additional 60,000 common stock options at an average price of $.08. The conversion or exercise of our convertible notes payable common stock options, and warrants and the subsequent sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could adversely impact its price. The sale or the availability for sale of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our stock price is volatile and could be further affected by events not within our control. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and will continue to be subject to: · volatility in the trading markets generally; · the results of and fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; · announcements regarding our business or the business of our competitors; · changes in prices of our or our competitors' products and services; · changes in product mix; and · changes in sales and sales growth rates for us as a whole or for geographic areas, and other events or factors. Statements or changes in opinions, ratings or earnings estimates made by brokerage firms or industry analysts relating to the markets in which we operate or expect to operate could also have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market as a whole has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations which have particularly affected the market price for the securities of many small cap companies and which often have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Finally, the market on which our stock trades may have a significant impact on the price and liquidity of our shares. 19 During 2010, the market price for our common stock varied between a low of $.02 in December 2010 and a high of $.25 in January 2010. This volatility may affect the price at which a stockholder could sell its shares of common stock, and the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our stock price is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to significant price and volume fluctuations in response to market and other factors, including variations in our quarterly operating results and announcement by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments. Our common stock is currently traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. Because there is a limited public market for our common stock, a stockholder may not be able to sell shares when it wants. We cannot assure you that an active trading market for our common stock will ever develop. There is limited trading in our common stock and we cannot assure you that an active public market for our common stock will ever develop. The lack of an active public trading market means that a stockholder may not be able to sell their shares of common stock when it wants, thereby increasing its market risk. Until our common stock is listed on an exchange, we expect that the shares will continue to be listed on the OTC Bulletin Board. However, an investor may find it difficult to obtain accurate quotations regarding the common stock’s market value. In addition, if we failed to meet the criteria set forth in SEC regulations, various requirements would be imposed by law on broker-dealers who sell our securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. Consequently, such regulations may deter broker-dealers from recommending or selling our common stock, which may further affect the shares liquidity. Moreover our ability to obtain future financing may be adversely affected by the consequences of our common stock trading on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board. Our sales, operating results and profitability will vary from quarter to quarter and other factors may result in increased volatility of our share price. Our quarterly sales, operating results and profitability have varied in the past and are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter, making them difficult to predict. This may lead to volatility in our share price. The changes in the market price of our common stock may also be for reasons unrelated to our operating performance. Some other factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially include: · the failure to be awarded a significant contract on which we have bid; · the termination by a client of a material contract; · announcement of new services by us or our competitors; · announcement of acquisitions or other significant transactions by us or our competitors; · sales of common stock by IGI or existing stockholders, or the perception that such sales may occur; · adverse judgments or settlements obligating us to pay liabilities; · unforeseen legal expenses, including litigation costs; · changes in the value of the defined pension plan assets, required cash contributions and related pension expense as well as the impact of regulatory oversight of pension plans in general; · changes in management; · general economic conditions and overall stock market volatility; · changes in or the application of accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S.; · reduced demand for services caused, for example, by competitors; 20 · changes in the mix of services we or our distributors sell; · cancellations, delays or contract amendments by government agency customers; · expenses related to acquisitions or mergers; and · impairment charges arising out of our assessments of goodwill and intangibles. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 