Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in the Form 10-K and the exhibits hereto, you should carefully consider the risks described below. These risks are not the only ones that we may face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. This Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below or elsewhere in this Form 10-K. The global recession and further adverse changes in general economic or credit market conditions could adversely impact our sales and operating results. The direction and strength of the U.S. and global economy has recently been increasingly poor and uncertain due to a sharp turndown in the economy and difficulties in the credit markets. If economic growth in the United States and other countries continues to slow, or if the credit markets continue to be difficult to access, our distributors, suppliers and other business partners could experience significant disruptions to their businesses and operations which, in turn, could negatively impact our business operations and financial performance. In addition, weakening consumer financial strength and demand could cause a substantial reduction in the sale of our products. Our acquisition of Blackstone could continue to present challenges for us. On September 22, 2006, we completed the acquisition of Blackstone. The acquisition has presented several initial challenges to our business. In 2008, we recorded several expenses from the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets related to the Blackstone business, including a $57.0 million impairment loss related to the Blackstone trademark, a $126.9 million goodwill impairment loss, and a $105.7 million impairment charge related to the distribution network and technologies at Blackstone. We have also received several subpoenas, including from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of the Inspector General, related to the Blackstone business. These subpoenas and related government investigations have required the use of significant management time and resources. We are in the process of continuing to integrate the operations of Blackstone into our business. We may not be able to successfully integrate Blackstone’s operations into our business and achieve the benefits that we originally anticipated at the time of the acquisition. The continued integration of Blackstone’s operations into our business involves numerous risks, including: · difficulties in incorporating Blackstone’s product lines, sales personnel and marketing operations into our business; · the diversion of our resources and our management’s attention from other business concerns; · the loss of any key distributors; · the loss of any key employees; and · the assumption of unknown liabilities, such as the costs and expenses related to the current inquiries by the Department of Health and Human Service Office of Inspector General, as described in Item 3, Legal Proceedings. 24 Table of Contents In addition, Blackstone’s business is subject to many of the same risks and uncertainties that apply to our other business operations, such as risks relating to the protection of Blackstone’s intellectual property and proprietary rights, including patents that it owns or licenses. If Blackstone’s intellectual property and proprietary rights are challenged, or if third parties claim that Blackstone infringes on their proprietary rights, our business could be adversely affected. Failure to overcome these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the acquisition of Blackstone could adversely affect our business, prospects and financial condition. In addition, if Blackstone’s operations and financial results continue not to meet our expectations, we may not realize synergies, operating efficiencies, market position, or revenue growth we originally anticipated from the acquisition. Expensive litigation and government investigations, and difficulties recouping disputed amounts currently being held in escrow in connection with the Blackstone acquisition, may reduce our earnings. As described under Item 3, "Legal Proceedings", we are named as a defendant in a number of lawsuits and have received subpoenas requesting information from governmental authorities, including the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General, and two separate federal grand jury subpoenas. We are complying with the subpoenas and intend to cooperate with any related government investigation. The outcome of these and any other lawsuits brought against us, and these and other investigations of us, are inherently uncertain, and adverse developments or outcomes could result in significant monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us that could significantly reduce our earnings and cash flows. As also described under Item 3, "Legal Proceedings", we may have rights to indemnification under the merger agreement for the Blackstone acquisition for losses incurred in connection with some of these matters, and we have submitted claims for indemnification from the escrow fund established in connection with the merger agreement for certain of these matters. However, the representative of the former shareholders of Blackstone has objected to many of these indemnification claims and expressed an intent to contest them in accordance with the terms of the merger agreement. There can be no assurance that we will ultimately be successful in seeking indemnification in connection with any of these matters. In the event certain of these matters result in significant settlement costs or judgments against us and we are not able to successfully recoup such amounts from the escrow fund, these matters could have a significant negative effect on our operations and financial performance. We may not be able to successfully introduce new products to the market. We intend to introduce several new products to the market in 2009, including the Firebird (TM) pedicle screw system, the Pillar SA interbody device and the Trinity (R) Evolution(TM) adult stem cell-based allograft, among others. Despite our planning, the process of developing and introducing new products is inherently complex and uncertain and involves risks, including the ability of such new products to satisfy customer needs and gain broad market acceptance, which can depend on the product achieving broad clinical acceptance, the level of third-party reimbursement and the introduction of competing technologies. We contract with third-party manufacturers to produce most of our products, like many other companies in the medical device industry. If we or any such manufacturer fails to meet production and delivery schedules, it can have an adverse impact on our ability to sell such products. Further, whether we directly manufacture a product or utilize a third-party manufacturer, shortages and spoilage of materials, labor stoppages, product recalls, manufacturing defects and other similar events can delay production and inhibit our ability to bring a new product to market in timely fashion. For example, the supply of Trinity(R) Evolution(TM) is derived from human cadaveric donors, and our ability to distribute the product depends on our supplier continuing to have access to donated human cadaveric tissue, as well as, the maintenance of high standards by the supplier in its processing methodology. The supply of such donors is inherently unpredictable and can fluctuate over time. Further, because Trinity(R) Evolution(TM) is classified as an HCT/P product, it could from time to time be subject to recall for safety or administrative reasons. 25 Table of Contents We depend on our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, but we may not be able to maintain the confidentiality, or assure the protection, of these assets. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to protect our current and future technologies and products and to defend our intellectual property rights. If we fail to protect our intellectual property adequately, competitors may manufacture and market products similar to, or that compete directly with, ours. Numerous patents covering our technologies have been issued to us, and we have filed, and expect to continue to file, patent applications seeking to protect newly developed technologies and products in various countries, including the United States. Some patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy until the patent is issued. Because the publication of discoveries tends to follow their actual discovery by several months, we may not be the first to invent, or file patent applications on any of our discoveries. Patents may not be issued with respect to any of our patent applications and existing or future patents issued to, or licensed by us and may not provide adequate protection or competitive advantages for our products. Patents that are issued may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by our competitors. Furthermore, our patent rights may not prevent our competitors from developing, using or commercializing products that are similar or functionally equivalent to our products. We also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary expertise and continuing technological innovation that we protect, in part, by entering into confidentiality agreements with assignors, licensees, suppliers, employees and consultants. These agreements may be breached and there may not be adequate remedies in the event of a breach. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability or enforceability of confidentiality agreements. Moreover, our trade secrets and proprietary technology may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors. If patents are not issued with respect to our products arising from research, we may not be able to maintain the confidentiality of information relating to these products. In addition, if a patent relating to any of our products lapses or is invalidated, we may experience greater competition arising from new market entrants. Third parties may claim that we infringe on their proprietary rights and may prevent us from manufacturing and selling certain of our products. There has been substantial litigation in the medical device industry with respect to the manufacture, use and sale of new products. These lawsuits relate to the validity and infringement of patents or proprietary rights of third parties. We may be required to defend against allegations relating to the infringement of patent or proprietary rights of third parties. Any such litigation could, among other things: · require us to incur substantial expense, even if we are successful in the litigation; · require us to divert significant time and effort of our technical and management personnel; · result in the loss of our rights to develop or make certain products; and · require us to pay substantial monetary damages or royalties in order to license proprietary rights from third parties or to satisfy judgments or to settle actual or threatened litigation. Although patent and intellectual property disputes within the orthopedic medical devices industry have often been settled through assignments, licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and could include the long-term payment of royalties. Furthermore, the required assignments or licenses may not be made available to us on acceptable terms. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or a failure to obtain necessary assignments or licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling some products or increase our costs to market these products. For example, our subsidiary, Blackstone, maintains a license agreement with Cross Medical, Inc./Biomet Spine (“Cross/Biomet”) covering certain pedicle screw products currently sold by Blackstone. Prior to the completion of its acquisition by us, Blackstone requested that Cross/Biomet consent to the assignment of the license agreement to the extent Blackstone’s acquisition by the Company constituted an assignment thereunder. The Company believes that no consent is necessary for Blackstone to maintain its rights under the license agreement and that to the extent such consent is necessary, Cross/Biomet is required to provide it under the terms of the agreement. The Company also believes that it has properly interpreted the scope of the license. However, there can be no assurance that Cross/Biomet will not challenge Blackstone’s rights under the license agreement if current negotiations are not successful. 26 Table of Contents Reimbursement policies of third parties, cost containment measures and healthcare reform could adversely affect the demand for our products and limit our ability to sell our products. Our products are sold either directly by us or by independent sales representatives to customers or to our independent distributors and purchased by hospitals, doctors and other healthcare providers. These products may be reimbursed by third-party payors, such as government programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and Tricare, or private insurance plans and healthcare networks. Third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device provided to a patient or used in a procedure does not meet applicable payment criteria or if the policy holder’s healthcare insurance benefits are limited. Also, third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Limits put on reimbursement could make it more difficult for people to buy our products and reduce, or possibly eliminate, the demand for our products. In addition, should governmental authorities enact additional legislation or adopt regulations that affect third-party coverage and reimbursement, demand for our products and coverage by private or public insurers, may be reduced with a consequent material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Third-party payors, whether private or governmental entities, also may revise coverage or reimbursement policies that address whether a particular product, treatment modality, device or therapy will be subject to reimbursement and, if so, at what level of payment. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”), in its ongoing implementation of the Medicare program has obtained a related technical assessment of the medical study literature to determine how the literature addresses spinal fusion surgery in the Medicare population. The impact that this information will have on Medicare coverage policy for the Company’s products is currently unknown, but we cannot provide assurances that the resulting actions would not restrict Medicare coverage for our products. It is also possible that the government’s focus on coverage of off-label uses of the FDA-approved devices could lead to changes in coverage policies regarding off-label uses by TriCare, Medicare and/or Medicaid. There can be no assurance that we or our distributors will not experience significant reimbursement problems in the future related to these or other proceedings. Our products are sold in many countries, such as the United Kingdom, France, and Italy, with publicly funded healthcare systems. The ability of hospitals supported by such systems to purchase our products is dependent, in part, upon public budgetary constraints. Any increase in such constraints may have a material adverse effect on our sales and collection of accounts receivable from such sales. As required by law, CMS is expected to continue to implement a competitive bidding program for durable medical equipment paid for by the Medicare program. CMS conducted an initial implementation of the competitive bidding program in 2008 which was terminated in that same year. CMS is required to start the rebid of the initial implementation in 2009. The Company’s products are not yet included in the competitive bidding process. We believe that the competitive bidding process will principally affect products sold by our Sports Medicine business. We cannot predict which products from any of our businesses will ultimately be affected or when the competitive bidding process will be extended to our businesses. The competitive bidding process is projected to be expanded further in 2011, yet final decisions concerning which products and areas will be affected have not been announced. While some of our products are designated by the Food and Drug Administration as Class III medical devices and thus are not included within the competitive bidding program, some of our products may be encompassed within the program at varying times. There can be no assurance that the implementation of the competitive bidding program will not have an adverse impact on the sales of some of our products. 27 Table of Contents We estimate that our revenue by payor type is: · Independent Distributors 23% · Third Party Insurance 20% · International Public Healthcare Systems 12% · Direct (hospital) 36% · U.S. Government – Medicare, Medicaid, TriCare 8% · Self pay 2% We and certain of our suppliers may be subject to extensive government regulation that increases our costs and could limit our ability to market or sell our products. The medical devices we manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. These authorities regulate the development, approval, classification, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing and sale of medical devices. Likewise, our use and disclosure of certain categories of health information may be subject to federal and state laws, implemented and enforced by governmental authorities that protect health information privacy and security. For a description of these regulations, see Item 1 – “Business – Government Regulation.” The approval or clearance by governmental authorities, including the FDA in the United States, is generally required before any medical devices may be marketed in the United States or other countries. We cannot predict whether in the future, the U.S. or foreign governments may impose regulations that have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The process of obtaining FDA clearance and other regulatory clearances or approvals to develop and market a medical device can be costly and time-consuming, and is subject to the risk that such approvals will not be granted on a timely basis if at all. The regulatory process may delay or prohibit the marketing of new products and impose substantial additional costs if the FDA lengthens review times for new devices. The FDA has the ability to change the regulatory classification of a cleared or approved device from a higher to a lower regulatory classification which could materially adversely impact our ability to market or sell our devices. We and certain of our suppliers also are subject to announced and unannounced inspections by the FDA to determine our compliance with FDA’s Quality System Regulation (QSR) and other regulations. If the FDA were to find that we or certain of our suppliers have failed to comply with applicable regulations, the agency could institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a public warning letter to more severe sanctions such as: fines and civil penalties against us, our officers, our employees or our suppliers; unanticipated expenditures to address or defend such actions; delays in clearing or approving, or refusal to clear or approve, our products; withdrawal or suspension of approval of our products or those of our third-party suppliers by the FDA or other regulatory bodies; product recall or seizure; interruption of production; operating restrictions; injunctions; and criminal prosecution. The FDA also has the authority to request repair, replacement or refund of the cost of any medical device manufactured or distributed by us. Any of those actions could have a material adverse effect on our development of new laboratory tests, business strategy, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to federal and state health care fraud and abuse laws, and could face substantial penalties if we are unable to fully comply with such laws. Health care fraud and abuse regulation by federal and state governments impact our business. Health care fraud and abuse laws potentially applicable to our operations include: · the Federal Health Care Programs Anti-Kickback Law, which constrains our marketing practices, educational programs, pricing and discounting policies, and relationships with health care practitioners and providers, by prohibiting, among other things, soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, in exchange for or to induce the purchase or recommendation of an item or service reimbursable under a federal health care program (such as the Medicare or Medicaid programs); · federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other federal government payers that are false or fraudulent; and · state laws analogous to each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third party payers, including commercial insurers. 28 Table of Contents Due to the breadth of some of these laws, there can be no assurance that we will not be found to be in violation of any of such laws, and as a result we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations or the exclusion from participation in federal or state healthcare programs. Any penalties could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, it is possible that one or more private insurers with whom we do business may attempt to use any penalty we might be assessed or any exclusion from federal or state healthcare program business as a basis to cease doing business with us. Our allograft and mesenchymal stem cell products could expose us to certain risks which could disrupt our business. Our Blackstone subsidiary distributes a product under the brand name Trinity(R) Matrix which is an allogeneic bone matrix containing viable cadaveric adult mesenchymal stem cells. Our right to distribute this product will terminate on June 30, 2009. We believe that Trinity(R) Matrix is properly classified under the FDA’s Human Cell, Tissues and Cellular and Tissue-Based Products, or HCT/P, regulatory paradigm and not as a medical device or as a biologic or drug. There can be no assurance that the FDA would agree that this category of regulatory classification applies to Trinity(R) Matrix and the reclassification of this product from a human tissue to a medical device could have adverse consequences for us or for the supplier of this product and make it more difficult or expensive for us to conduct this business by requiring premarket clearance or approval as well as compliance with additional postmarket regulatory requirements. The success of our Trinity(R) Matrix product will depend on these products achieving broad market acceptance which can depend on the product achieving broad clinical acceptance, the level of third-party reimbursement and the introduction of competing technologies. The supply of Trinity(R) Matrix is derived from human cadaveric donors. The supply of such donors is inherently unpredictable and can fluctuate over time. Because Trinity(R) is classified as an HCT/P product, it can from time to time be subject to recall for safety or administrative reasons. Blackstone also distributes allograft products which are also derived from human tissue harvested from cadavers and which are used for bone reconstruction or repair and which are surgically implanted into the human body. We believe that these allograft products are properly classified as HCT/Ps and not as a medical device or a biologic or drug. There can be no assurance that the FDA would agree that this regulatory classification applies to these products and any regulatory reclassification could have adverse consequences for us or for the suppliers of these products and make it more difficult or expensive for us to conduct this business by requiring premarket clearance or approval and compliance with additional postmarket regulatory requirements. Moreover, the supply of these products to us could be interrupted by the failure of our suppliers to maintain high standards in performing required donor screening and infectious disease testing of donated human tissue used in producing allograft implants. Our allograft implant business could also be adversely affected by shortages in the supply of donated human tissue or negative publicity concerning methods of recovery of tissue and product liability actions arising out of the distribution of allograft implant products. In May 2009, the Company expects to begin distributing Trinity(R) Evolution(TM), a next generation adult stem cell-based allograft developed in collaboration with the Musculoskeletal Transplant Foundation (MTF). Trinity(R) Evolution(TM) is an allogeneic bone matrix containing viable adult mesenchymal stem cells. We believe that Trinity(R) Evolution(TM) is properly classified under the FDA’s Human Cell, Tissues and Cellular and Tissue-Based Products, or HCT/P, regulatory paradigm and not as a medical device or as a biologic or drug. There can be no assurance that the FDA would agree that this category of regulatory classification applies to Trinity(R) Evolution(TM) and the reclassification of this product from a human tissue to a medical device could have adverse consequences for us or for the supplier of this product and make it more difficult or expensive for us to conduct this business by requiring premarket clearance or approval as well as compliance with additional postmarket regulatory requirements. Our ability to continue to sell the Trinity(R) Evolution(TM) product also depends on our supplier continuing to have access to donated human cadaveric tissue, as well as, the maintenance of high standards by the supplier in its processing methodology. Moreover, the success of our Trinity(R) Evolution(TM) product will depend on these products achieving broad market acceptance which can depend on the product achieving broad clinical acceptance, the level of third-party reimbursement and the introduction of competing technologies. The supply of Trinity(R) Evolution(TM) is derived from human cadaveric donors. The supply of such donors is inherently unpredictable and can fluctuate over time. Because Trinity(R) Evolution(TM) is classified as an HCT/P product, it can from time to time be subject to recall for safety or administrative reasons. 29 Table of Contents We may be subject to product liability claims that may not be covered by insurance and could require us to pay substantial sums. We are subject to an inherent risk of, and adverse publicity associated with, product liability and other liability claims, whether or not such claims are valid. We maintain product liability insurance coverage in amounts and scope that we believe is reasonable and adequate. There can be no assurance, however, that product liability or other claims will not exceed our insurance coverage limits or that such insurance will continue to be available on reasonable commercially acceptable terms, or at all. A successful product liability claim that exceeds our insurance coverage limits could require us to pay substantial sums and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Fluctuations in insurance expense could adversely affect our profitability. We hold a number of insurance policies, including product liability insurance, directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, property insurance and workers’ compensation insurance. If the costs of maintaining adequate insurance coverage should increase significantly in the future, our operating results could be materially adversely impacted. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate. Our operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past on a quarterly basis. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future and we may experience losses in the future depending on a number of factors, including the extent to which our products continue to gain or maintain market acceptance, the rate and size of expenditures incurred as we expand our domestic and establish our international sales and distribution networks, the timing and level of reimbursement for our products by third-party payors, the extent to which we are subject to government regulation or enforcement and other factors, many of which are outside our control. New developments by others could make our products or technologies non-competitive or obsolete. The orthopedic medical device industry in which we compete is undergoing, and is characterized by rapid and significant technological change. We expect competition to intensify as technological advances are made. New technologies and products developed by other companies are regularly introduced into the market, which may render our products or technologies non-competitive or obsolete. Our ability to market products successfully depends, in part, upon the acceptance of the products not only by consumers, but also by independent third parties. Our ability to market orthopedic products successfully depends, in part, on the acceptance of the products by independent third parties (including hospitals, doctors, other healthcare providers and third-party payors) as well as patients. Unanticipated side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning any of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to maintain hospital approvals or achieve acceptance by prescribing physicians, managed care providers and other retailers, customers and patients. 30 Table of Contents The industry in which we operate is highly competitive. The medical devices industry is highly competitive. We compete with a large number of companies, many of which have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and technical resources than we do. Many of our competitors may be able to develop products and processes competitive with, or superior to, our own. Furthermore, we may not be able to successfully develop or introduce new products that are less costly or offer better performance than those of our competitors, or offer purchasers of our products payment and other commercial terms as favorable as those offered by our competitors. For more information regarding our competitors, see Item 1 – “Business – Competition.” We depend on our senior management team. Our success depends upon the skill, experience and performance of members of our senior management team, who have been critical to the management of our operations and the implementation of our business strategy. We do not have key man insurance on our senior management team, and the loss of one or more key executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our operations and development. In order to compete, we must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and our failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In order to compete, we must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and support positions. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, engineers, technical staff and sales representatives are critical to our business, and competition for experienced employees in the medical device industry can be intense. To attract, retain and motivate qualified employees, we utilize stock-based incentive awards such as employee stock options. If the value of such stock awards does not appreciate as measured by the performance of the price of our common stock and ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain and motivate our employees could be adversely impacted, which could negatively affect our results of operations and/or require us to increase the amount we expend on cash and other forms of compensation. Termination of our existing relationships with our independent sales representatives or distributors could have an adverse effect on our business. We sell our products in many countries through independent distributors. Generally, our independent sales representatives and our distributors have the exclusive right to sell our products in their respective territories and are generally prohibited from selling any products that compete with ours. The terms of these agreements vary in length from one to ten years. Under the terms of our distribution agreements, each party has the right to terminate in the event of a material breach by the other party and we generally have the right to terminate if the distributor does not meet agreed sales targets or fails to make payments on time. Any termination of our existing relationships with independent sales representatives or distributors could have an adverse effect on our business unless and until commercially acceptable alternative distribution arrangements are put in place. We are party to numerous contractual relationships. We are party to numerous contracts in the normal course of our business. We have contractual relationships with suppliers, distributors and agents, as well as service providers. In the aggregate, these contractual relationships are necessary for us to operate our business. From time to time, we amend, terminate or negotiate our contracts. We are also periodically subject to, or make claims of breach of contract, or threaten legal action relating to our contracts. These actions may result in litigation. At any one time, we have a number of negotiations under way for new or amended commercial agreements. We devote substantial time, effort and expense to the administration and negotiation of contracts involved in our business. However, these contracts may not continue in effect past their current term or we may not be able to negotiate satisfactory contracts in the future with current or new business partners. 31 Table of Contents We face risks related to foreign currency exchange rates. Because some of our revenue, operating expenses, assets and liabilities are denominated in foreign currencies, we are subject to foreign exchange risks that could adversely affect our operations and reported results. To the extent that we incur expenses or earn revenue in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, any change in the values of those foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could cause our profits to decrease or our products to be less competitive against those of our competitors. To the extent that our current assets denominated in foreign currency are greater or less than our current liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, we have potential foreign exchange exposure. We have substantial activities outside of the United States that are subject to the impact of foreign exchange rates. The fluctuations of foreign exchange rates during 2008 have had a positive impact of $4.2 million on net sales outside of the United States. Although we seek to manage our foreign currency exposure by matching non-dollar revenues and expenses, exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the future. To minimize such exposures, we enter into currency hedges from time to time. At December 31, 2008, we had outstanding a currency swap to hedge a 43.0 million Euro foreign currency exposure. We are subject to differing tax rates in several jurisdictions in which we operate. We have subsidiaries in several countries. Certain of our subsidiaries sell products directly to other Orthofix subsidiaries or provide marketing and support services to other Orthofix subsidiaries. These intercompany sales and support services involve subsidiaries operating in jurisdictions with differing tax rates. Further, in 2006 we restructured and consolidated our International operations in part through a series of intercompany transactions. Tax authorities in these jurisdictions may challenge our treatment of such intercompany transactions. If we are unsuccessful in defending our treatment of intercompany transactions, we may be subject to additional tax liability or penalty, which could adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to differing customs and import/export rules in several jurisdictions in which we operate. We import and export our products to and from a number of different countries around the world. These product movements involve subsidiaries and third-parties operating in jurisdictions with different customs and import/export rules and regulations. Customs authorities in such jurisdictions may challenge our treatment of customs and import/export rules relating to product shipments under aspects of their respective customs laws and treaties. If we are unsuccessful in defending our treatment of customs and import/export classifications, we may be subject to additional customs duties, fines or penalties that could adversely affect our profitability. Provisions of Netherlands Antilles law may have adverse consequences to our shareholders. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Articles of Association and the corporate law of the Netherlands Antilles as laid down in Book 2 of the Civil Code (CCNA). Although some of the provisions of the CCNA resemble some of the provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States, principles of law relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, the fiduciary duties of management and the rights of our shareholders may differ from those that would apply if Orthofix were incorporated in a jurisdiction within the United States. For example, there is no statutory right of appraisal under Netherlands Antilles corporate law nor is there a right for shareholders of a Netherlands Antilles corporation to sue a corporation derivatively. In addition, we have been advised by Netherlands Antilles counsel that it is unlikely that (1) the courts of the Netherlands Antilles would enforce judgments entered by U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws and (2) actions can be brought in the Netherlands Antilles in relation to liabilities predicated upon the U.S. federal securities laws. Our business is subject to economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international sales and operations. Since we sell our products in many different countries, our business is subject to risks associated with conducting business internationally. Net sales outside the United States represented 26% of our total net sales in 2008. We anticipate that net sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total net sales. In addition, a number of our manufacturing facilities and suppliers are located outside the United States. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: 32 Table of Contents · changes in foreign currency exchange rates; · changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions; · trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements or other restrictive actions by foreign governments; · consequences from changes in tax or customs laws; · difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; · differing labor regulations; · differing protection of intellectual property; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and · application of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and other anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws to our operations. We may incur costs and undertake new debt and contingent liabilities in a search for acquisitions. We continue to search for viable acquisition candidates that would expand our market sector or global presence. We also seek additional products appropriate for current distribution channels. The search for an acquisition of another company or product line by us could result in our incurrence of costs from such efforts as well as the undertaking of new debt and contingent liabilities from such searches or acquisitions. Such costs may be incurred at any time and may vary in size depending on the scope of the acquisition or product transactions and may have a material impact on our results of operations. We may incur significant costs or retain liabilities associated with disposition activity. We may from time to time sell, license, assign or otherwise dispose of or divest assets, the stock of subsidiaries or individual products, product lines or technologies which we determine are no longer desirable for us to own, some of which may be material. Any such activity could result in our incurring costs and expenses from these efforts, some of which could be significant, as well as retaining liabilities related to the assets or properties disposed of even though, for instance, the income generating assets have been disposed of. These costs and expenses may be incurred at any time and may have a material impact on our results of operations. Our subsidiary Orthofix Holdings, Inc.'s senior secured bank credit facility contains significant financial and operating restrictions, including financial covenants that we may be unable to satisfy in the future. When we acquired Blackstone on September 22, 2006, one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, Orthofix Holdings, Inc. (Orthofix Holdings), entered into a senior secured bank credit facility with a syndicate of financial institutions to finance the transaction. Orthofix and certain of Orthofix Holdings’ direct and indirect subsidiaries, including Orthofix Inc., Breg, and Blackstone have guaranteed the obligations of Orthofix Holdings under the senior secured bank facility. The senior secured bank facility provides for (1) a seven-year amortizing term loan facility of $330.0 million of which $280.7 million and $297.7 million was outstanding at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and (2) a six-year revolving credit facility of $45.0 million upon which we had not drawn as of December 31, 2008. On September 29, 2008, we entered into an amendment to the credit agreement. The credit agreement, as amended, contains negative covenants applicable to Orthofix and its subsidiaries, including restrictions on indebtedness, liens, dividends and mergers and sales of assets. The credit agreement also contains certain financial covenants, including a fixed charge coverage ratio and a leverage ratio applicable to Orthofix and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. A breach of any of these covenants could result in an event of default under the credit agreement, which could permit acceleration of the debt payments under the facility. Management believes the Company was in compliance with these financial covenants as measured at December 31, 2008. The Company further believes that it should be able to meet these financial covenants in future fiscal quarters, however, there can be no assurance that it will be able to do so, and failure to do so could result in an event of default under the credit agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. 33 Table of Contents The senior secured bank credit facility requires mandatory prepayments that may have an adverse effect on our operations and limit our ability to grow our business Further, in addition to scheduled debt payments, the credit agreement, as amended, requires us to make mandatory prepayments with (a) the excess cash flow (as defined in the credit agreement) of Orthofix and its subsidiaries, in an amount equal to 50% of the excess annual cash flow beginning with the year ending December 31, 2007, provided, however, if the leverage ratio (as defined in the credit agreement) is less than or equal to 1.75 to 1.00, as of the end of any fiscal year, there will be no mandatory excess cash flow prepayments, with respect to such fiscal year (b) 100% of the net cash proceeds of any debt issuances by Orthofix or any of its subsidiaries or 50% of the net cash proceeds of equity issuances by any such party, excluding the exercise of stock options, provided, however, if the leverage ratio is less than or equal to 1.75 to 1.00 at the end of the preceding fiscal year, Orthofix Holdings shall not be required to prepay the loans with the proceeds of any such debt or equity issuance, (c) the net cash proceeds of asset dispositions over a minimum threshold, or (d) unless reinvested, insurance proceeds or condemnation awards. These mandatory prepayments could limit our ability to reinvest in our business. The conditions of the U.S. and international capital and credit markets may adversely affect our ability to draw on our current revolving credit facility or obtain future short-term or long-term lending. Global market and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile, and in recent months the volatility has reached unprecedented levels. In particular, the cost and availability of funding for many companies has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. These forces reached unprecedented levels in 2008, resulting in the bankruptcy or acquisition of, or government assistance to, several major domestic and international financial institutions. These events have significantly diminished overall confidence in the financial and credit markets. There can be no assurances that recent government responses to the disruptions in the financial and credit markets will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. We continue to maintain a six-year revolving credit facility of $45.0 million upon which we have not drawn as of December 31, 2008. However, to the extent our business requires us to access the credit markets in the future and we are not able to do so, including in the event that lenders cease to lend to us, or cease to be capable of lending, for any reason, we could experience a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and ability to borrow additional funds. This might impair our ability to obtain sufficient funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development and other corporate purposes. The conditions of the U.S. and international capital and credit markets may adversely affect our interest expense under our existing credit facility. Our senior bank facility provides for a seven-year amortizing term loan facility of $330.0 million for which $280.7 was outstanding as of December 31, 2008. Obligations under the senior secured credit facility have a floating interest rate of the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus a margin or prime rate plus a margin. Currently, the term loan is a $150.0 million LIBOR loan, with a 3.0% LIBOR floor, plus a margin of 4.5% and a $130.7 million prime rate loan plus a margin of 3.5%. In June 2008, we entered into a three year fully amortizable interest rate swap agreement (the “Swap”) with a notional amount of $150.0 million and an expiration date of June 30, 2011. The amount outstanding under the Swap as of December 31, 2008 was $150.0 million. Under the Swap we will pay a fixed rate of 3.73% and receive interest at floating rates based on the three month LIBOR rate at each quarterly re-pricing date until the expiration of the Swap. As of December 31, 2008 the interest rate on the debt related to the Swap was 9.8%. Our overall effective interest rate, including the impact of the Swap, as of December 31, 2008 on our senior secured debt was 8.4%. In recent months, LIBOR rates have experienced unprecedented short-term volatility due to disruptions occurring in global financial and credit markets. During this period, LIBOR rates have experienced substantial short-term increases. As described above, although the Swap reduces the impact of these increases on us, increases in LIBOR rates increase the interest expense that we incur under our term loan. (See Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk in this Form 10-K.) Further, in the event that our counterparties under the Swap were to cease to be able to satisfy their obligations under the Swap for any reason, our interest expense could be further increased. 34 Table of Contents Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K). Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that leads us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations The accounting treatment of goodwill and other identified intangibles could result in future asset impairments, which would be recorded as operating losses. Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” requires that goodwill, including the goodwill included in the carrying value of investments accounted for using the equity method of accounting, and other intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives, such as trademarks, cease to be amortized. SFAS No. 142 requires that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives be tested at least annually for impairment. If Orthofix finds that the carrying value of goodwill or a certain intangible asset exceeds its fair value, it will reduce the carrying value of the goodwill or intangible asset to the fair value, and Orthofix will recognize an impairment loss. Any such impairment losses are required to be recorded as non-cash operating losses. During the third quarter, due to the recent trend of decreasing revenues at Blackstone, among other matters, we evaluated the fair value of our indefinite-lived trademarks and goodwill at Blackstone. As a result, we recorded an impairment charge of $57.0 million relating to these trademarks. The fair value of goodwill was estimated using the expected present value of future cash flows. We determined that the carrying amount of goodwill related to Blackstone exceeded its implied fair value, and recognized a goodwill impairment loss of $126.9 million. In addition, SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets” requires that intangible assets with definite lives, such as Orthofix’s developed technologies and distribution network assets, be tested for impairment if indicators of impairment, as defined in the standard exist. During the third quarter of 2008, we determined that an indicator of impairment existed with respect to the definite-lived intangible assets at Blackstone. We compared the expected cash flows to be generated by the definite lived intangible assets on an undiscounted basis to the carrying value of the intangible asset. We determined the carrying value exceeded the undiscounted cash flow and impaired the distribution network and developed technologies at Blackstone to the fair value which resulted in an impairment charge of $105.7 million. Certain of the impairment tests require Orthofix to make an estimate of the fair value of goodwill and other intangible assets, which are primarily determined using discounted cash flow methodologies, research analyst estimates, market comparisons and a review of recent transactions. Since a number of factors may influence determinations of fair value of intangible assets, Orthofix is unable to predict whether impairments of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangibles will occur in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 35 Table of Contents Item 