Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K and the exhibits hereto, you should carefully consider the risks described below. These risks are not the only ones that we may face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. This Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below or elsewhere in this Form 10-K. If we fail to comply with the terms of our Deferred Prosecution Agreement and Corporate Integrity Agreement (and a related term of probation), we may be subject to criminal prosecution and/or exclusion from federal healthcare programs. On June 6, 2012, in connection with our settlement of a U.S. government investigation and related qui tam complaint related to our regenerative stimulation business, and our settlement of a U.S. government investigation and related qui tam complaint related to Blackstone Medical, Inc., we entered into a five-year corporate integrity agreement (the “CIA”) with the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS-OIG”). The CIA acknowledges the existence of our current compliance program, and requires that we continue to maintain during the term of the CIA a compliance program designed to promote compliance with federal healthcare and Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) requirements. We are also required to maintain several elements of the existing program during the term of the CIA, including maintaining a Chief Compliance Officer, a Compliance Committee, and a Code of Conduct. The CIA requires that we conduct certain additional compliance-related activities during the term of the CIA, including various training and monitoring procedures, and maintaining a disciplinary process for compliance obligations. Pursuant to the CIA, we are required to notify the HHS-OIG in writing, among other things, of: (i) any ongoing government investigation or legal proceeding involving an allegation that the Company has committed a crime or has engaged in fraudulent activities; (ii) any other matter that a reasonable person would consider a probable violation of applicable criminal, civil, or administrative laws related to compliance with federal healthcare programs or FDA requirements; and (iii) any change in location, sale, closing, purchase, or establishment of a new business unit or location related to items or services that may be reimbursed by Federal healthcare programs. We are also subject to periodic reporting and certification requirements attesting that the provisions of the CIA are being implemented and followed, as well as certain document and record retention mandates. The CIA provides that in the event of an uncured material breach of the CIA, we could be excluded from participation in federal healthcare programs and/or subject to prosecution and subject to other monetary penalties, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In connection with this settlement, on December 14, 2012, our subsidiary Orthofix Inc. plead guilty in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts to one felony count of obstruction of a federal audit (18 U.S.C. §1516) pursuant to a plea agreement with the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts (the “Boston USAO”) and the U.S. Department of Justice. Under the terms of the sentencing order, the court has imposed a five year term of probation on Orthofix Inc., with special conditions which mandate certain non-disparagement obligations and order Orthofix Inc. to continue complying with the terms of the CIA through the expiration of its term. In the event that we fail to satisfy these terms of probation, we could be subject to additional criminal penalties or prosecution, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. On July 10, 2012, we entered into definitive agreements with the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) and Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) agreeing to settle our self-initiated and self-reported internal investigation of our Mexican subsidiary, Promeca S.A. de C.V. (“Promeca”), regarding non-compliance by Promeca with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“ the FCPA”). As part of the settlement, we entered into a 3-year deferred prosecution agreement with DOJ. DOJ has agreed not to pursue any criminal charges against us in connection with this matter if we comply with the terms of the DPA. The DPA takes note of our self-reporting of this matter to DOJ and the SEC, and of remedial measures, including the implementation of an enhanced compliance program, previously undertaken by us. The DPA provides that we shall continue to cooperate fully with DOJ in any future matters related to corrupt payments, false books and records or inadequate internal controls. In that regard, we have represented that we have implemented and will continue to implement a compliance and ethics program designed to prevent and detect violations of the FCPA and other applicable anti-corruption laws. We will periodically report to DOJ during the term of the DPA regarding such remediation and implementation of compliance measures. As part of the settlement, we also agreed to certain reporting obligations to the SEC regarding the status of our remediation and implementation of compliance measures. In the event that we fail to comply with these obligations, we could be subject to criminal prosecution by DOJ for the FCPA-related matters we self-reported. Such a criminal prosecution could subject us to penalties that could have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 19 Table of Contents We could be subject to indemnification obligations under our agreement with the purchaser of our former sports medicine business unit. In May 2012, we sold our former sports medicine business unit, Breg, Inc., to an affiliate of Water Street Healthcare Partners II, L.P. pursuant to a stock purchase agreement between us and the buyer. Under the stock purchase agreement, we have agreed to indemnify the buyer with respect to certain specified matters, including (i) an ongoing U.S. government investigation and certain ongoing product liability matters relating to a previously owned infusion pump product line, and (ii) product liability claims relating to pre-closing sales of cold therapy units and certain post-closing sales of cold therapy units. These matters are further described under the subheading “Matters Related to Our Former Breg Subsidiary and Possible Indemnification Obligations” in the Legal Proceedings section under Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We currently cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss, or range of loss, in connection with these indemnified matters. In the event that they are substantial, it could have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be subject to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws, and could face substantial penalties if we are determined not to have fully complied with such laws. Healthcare fraud and abuse regulation by federal and state governments impact our business. Healthcare fraud and abuse laws potentially applicable to our operations include: • the federal Health Care Programs Anti-Kickback Law, which constrains our marketing practices, educational programs, pricing and discounting policies, and relationships with healthcare practitioners and providers, by prohibiting, among other things, soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, in exchange for or to induce the purchase or recommendation of an item or service reimbursable under a federal healthcare program (such as the Medicare or Medicaid programs); • federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other federal government payors that are false or fraudulent; and • state laws analogous to each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including commercial insurers. Due to the breadth of some of these laws, there can be no assurance that we will not be found to be in violation of any such laws, and as a result we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations or the exclusion from participation in federal or state healthcare programs. Any penalties could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. In addition, it is possible that one or more private insurers with whom we do business may attempt to use any penalty we might be assessed or any exclusion from federal or state healthcare program business as a basis to cease doing business with us. If this were to occur, it could also have a material adverse effect on our business and financial position. 20 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully introduce new products to the market, and that market opportunities that we expect to develop for our products may not be as large as we expect. During 2012, we continued to make improvements in revenues related to several new products we introduced to the market over the past two years, including the CONSTRUX®Mini PTC(TM) PEEK Titanium Composite Spacer System, Phoenix ™ Minimally Invasive Spinal Fixation System, the Firebird ™ Deformity Correction System, the FORZA™ Spacer System and Trinity Evolution ®, TL-HEX™ TrueLok Hexapod System, Galaxy Fixation ™ System, Contours LPS ® (Lapidus Plating System, Centronail® Ankle Compression Nail, among others. Despite our planning, the process of developing and introducing new products (including product enhancements) is inherently complex and uncertain and involves risks, including the ability of such new products to satisfy customer needs, gain broad market acceptance (including by physicians) and obtain regulatory approvals, which can depend, among other things, on the product achieving broad clinical acceptance, the level of third-party reimbursement and the introduction of competing technologies. If the market opportunities that we expect to develop for our products, including new products, are not as large as we expect, it could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. Growing our business requires that we educate and train physicians regarding the distinctive characteristics, benefits, safety, clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness of our products. Acceptance of our products depends in part on our ability to (i) educate the medical community as to the distinctive characteristics, benefits, safety, clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness of our products compared to alternative products, procedures and therapies, and (ii) train physicians in the proper use and implementation of our products. We support our sales force and distributors through specialized training workshops in which surgeons and sales specialists participate. We also produce marketing materials, including materials outlining surgical procedures, for our sales force and distributors in a variety of languages using printed, video and multimedia formats. To provide additional advanced training for surgeons, consistent with the AdvaMed Code and the Eucomed Code guidelines, we organize monthly multilingual teaching seminars in multiple locations, including our Orthofix Institute for Research, Training and Education in the North American Operations and Training Center in Lewisville, Texas. However, we may not be successful in our efforts to educate the medical community and properly train physicians. If physicians are not properly trained, they may misuse or ineffectively use our products, which may result in unsatisfactory patient outcomes, patient injury, negative publicity or lawsuits against us. In addition, a failure to educate the medical community regarding our products may impair our ability to achieve market acceptance of our products. We are dependent on third-party manufacturers for many of our products. We contract with third-party manufacturers to produce most of our products, like many other companies in the medical device industry. If we or any such manufacturer fails to meet production and delivery schedules, it can have an adverse impact on our ability to sell such products. Further, whether we directly manufacture a product or utilize a third-party manufacturer, shortages and spoilage of materials, labor stoppages, product recalls, manufacturing defects and other similar events can delay production and inhibit our ability to bring a new product to market in timely fashion. For example, the supply of Trinity Evolution ® is derived from human cadaveric donors, and our ability to distribute the product depends on our supplier continuing to have access to donated human cadaveric tissue, as well as, the maintenance of high standards by the supplier in its processing methodology. The supply of such donors is inherently unpredictable and can fluctuate over time. Further, because Trinity Evolution ® is classified as an HCT/P product, it could from time to time be subject to recall for safety or administrative reasons. We depend on our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, but we may not be able to maintain the confidentiality, or assure the protection, of these assets. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to protect our current and future technologies and products and to defend our intellectual property rights. If we fail to protect our intellectual property adequately, competitors may manufacture and market products similar to, or that compete directly with, ours. Numerous patents covering our technologies have been issued to us, and we have filed, and expect to continue to file, patent applications seeking to protect newly developed technologies and products in various countries, including the U.S. Some patent applications in the U.S. are maintained in secrecy until the patent is issued. Because the publication of discoveries tends to follow their actual discovery by several months, we may not be the first to invent, or file patent applications on any of our discoveries. Patents may not be issued with respect to any of our patent applications and existing or future patents issued to, or licensed by, us and may not provide adequate protection or competitive advantages for our products. Patents that are issued may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by our competitors. Furthermore, our patent rights may not prevent our competitors from developing, using or commercializing products that are similar or functionally equivalent to our products. We also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary expertise and continuing technological innovation that we protect, in part, by entering into confidentiality agreements with assignors, licensees, suppliers, employees and consultants. These agreements may be breached and there may not be adequate remedies in the event of a breach. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability or enforceability of confidentiality agreements. Moreover, our trade secrets and proprietary technology may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors. If patents are not issued with respect to our products arising from research, we may not be able to maintain the confidentiality of information relating to these products. In addition, if a patent relating to any of our products lapses or is invalidated, we may experience greater competition arising from new market entrants. Third parties may claim that we infringe on their proprietary rights and may prevent us from manufacturing and selling certain of our products. There has been substantial litigation in the medical device industry with respect to the manufacture, use and sale of new products. These lawsuits relate to the validity and infringement of patents or proprietary rights of third parties. We may be required to defend against allegations relating to the infringement of patent or proprietary rights of third parties. Any such litigation could, among other things: • require us to incur substantial expense, even if we are successful in the litigation; 21 Table of Contents • require us to divert significant time and effort of our technical and management personnel; • result in the loss of our rights to develop or make certain products; and • require us to pay substantial monetary damages or royalties in order to license proprietary rights from third parties or to satisfy judgments or to settle actual or threatened litigation. Although patent and intellectual property disputes within the orthopedic medical devices industry have often been settled through assignments, licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and could include the long-term payment of royalties. Furthermore, the required assignments or licenses may not be made available to us on acceptable terms. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or a failure to obtain necessary assignments or licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling some products or increase our costs to market these products. Reimbursement policies of third parties, cost containment measures and healthcare reform could adversely affect the demand for our products and limit our ability to sell our products. Our products are sold either directly by us or by independent sales representatives to customers or to our independent distributors and purchased by hospitals, doctors and other healthcare providers. These products may be reimbursed by third-party payors, such as government programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and Tricare, or private insurance plans and healthcare networks. Major third-party payors for medical services in the U.S. and internationally continue to work to contain health care costs. Third-party payors, both in the United States and internationally, are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. In addition, third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device or product provided to a patient or used in a procedure does not meet applicable payment criteria or if the policy holder’s healthcare insurance benefits are limited. These policies and criteria may be revised from time-to-time. Limits put on reimbursement could make it more difficult for people to buy our products and substantially reduce, or possibly eliminate, the demand for our products. In addition, should governmental authorities continue to enact legislation or adopt regulations that affect third-party coverage and reimbursement, demand for our products and coverage by private or public insurers may be reduced with a consequential material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”), in its ongoing implementation of the Medicare program, has obtained a related technical assessment of the medical study literature to determine how the literature addresses spinal fusion surgery in the Medicare population. The impact that this information will have on Medicare coverage policy for our products is currently unknown, but we cannot provide assurances that the resulting actions will not restrict Medicare coverage for our products. It is also possible that the government’s focus on coverage of off-label uses of devices approved by the FDA could lead to changes in coverage policies regarding off-label uses by TriCare, Medicare and/or Medicaid. There can be no assurance that we or our distributors will not experience significant reimbursement problems in the future related to these or other proceedings. Globally, our products are sold in many countries, such as the United Kingdom, France, and Italy, which have publicly funded healthcare systems. The ability of hospitals supported by such systems to purchase our products is dependent, in part, upon public budgetary constraints. Any increase in such constraints may have a material adverse effect on our sales and collection of accounts receivable from such sales. As required by law, CMS has continued efforts to implement a competitive bidding program for selected DMEPOS items paid for by the Medicare program. The initial implementation of the program in 2008 was terminated in that same year. CMS began the Round 1 Rebid process in 2009 and the implementation of the rebid round occurred on January 1, 2011. Our products are not yet included in the competitive bidding process. We cannot predict which products from any of our businesses will ultimately be affected or whether or when the competitive bidding process will be extended to our businesses. While some of our products are designated by FDA as Class III medical devices and thus are not included within the competitive bidding program, some of our products may be encompassed within the program at varying times. There can be no assurance that the implementation of the competitive bidding program will not have an adverse impact on the sales of some of our products. We estimate that our revenue by payor type is: • Direct (hospital) 39 % • Third-Party Insurance 24 % • Independent Distributors 17 % • U.S. Government—Medicare, Medicaid, TriCare 12 % • International Public Healthcare Systems 7 % • Self-pay and other 1 % 22 Table of Contents We and certain of our suppliers may be subject to extensive government regulation that increases our costs and could limit our ability to market or sell our products. The medical devices we manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. These authorities regulate the development, approval, classification, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing and sale of medical devices. Likewise, our use and disclosure of certain categories of health information may be subject to federal and state laws, implemented and enforced by governmental authorities that protect health information privacy and security. For a description of these regulations, see Item 1, “Business,” under the subheading “Government Regulation.” The approval or clearance by governmental authorities, including the FDA in the U.S., is generally required before any medical devices may be marketed in the U.S. or other countries. We cannot predict whether in the future, the U.S. or foreign governments may impose regulations that have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The process of obtaining FDA clearance and other regulatory clearances or approvals to develop and market a medical device can be costly and time-consuming, and is subject to the risk that such approvals will not be granted on a timely basis, if at all. The regulatory process may delay or prohibit the marketing of new products and impose substantial additional costs if the FDA lengthens review times for new devices. The FDA has the ability to change the regulatory classification of a cleared or approved device from a higher to a lower regulatory classification which could materially adversely impact our ability to market or sell our devices. In addition, we may be subject to compliance action, penalties or injunctions if we are determined to be promoting the use of our products for unapproved or off-label uses, or if the FDA challenges one or more of our determinations that a product modification did not require new approval or clearance by the FDA. We and certain of our suppliers also are subject to announced and unannounced inspections by the FDA to determine our compliance with FDA’s QSR and other regulations. If the FDA were to find that we or certain of our suppliers have failed to comply with applicable regulations, the agency could institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a public warning letter to more severe sanctions such as: fines and civil penalties against us, our officers, our employees or our suppliers; unanticipated expenditures to address or defend such actions; delays in clearing or approving, or refusal to clear or approve, our products; withdrawal or suspension of approval of our products or those of our third-party suppliers by the FDA or other regulatory bodies; product recall or seizure; interruption of production; operating restrictions; injunctions; and criminal prosecution. In June 2011, the FDA preannounced an inspection to close out the March 2009 Warning Letter issued to Blackstone Medical, Inc., and to determine compliance to Orthofix’s Quality System Requirements as well as to our Tissue Distribution program. At the close of the inspection, Orthofix received one Quality System observation on a form 483 however the FDA inspector concluded that all the corrective actions pertinent to the warning letter were adequately completed. When the Agency concludes that an inspection is “closed” under 21 CFR 20.64 (d) (3), it will release a copy of the Establishment Inspection Report (EIR) to the inspected establishment. Orthofix received its EIR for the June 2011 inspection in August 2011 indicating that this inspection was closed. The corrective action associated with the one observation on the 483 was fully corrected by Orthofix and verified by the FDA in January 2012. The FDA also has the authority to request repair, replacement or refund of the cost of any medical device manufactured or distributed by us. Any of those actions could have a material adverse effect on our development of new laboratory tests, business strategy, financial condition and results of operations. On February 1, 2013, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) published a final rule which will make information publicly available about payments or other transfers of value from certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologicals and medical supplies covered by Medicare, Medicaid, and the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), defined as applicable manufacturers, to physicians and teaching hospitals, which are defined as covered recipients. Called the “National Physician Payment Transparency Program: Open Payments,” this is one of many steps in the Affordable Care Act designed to create greater transparency in health care markets. The final rule, which implements Section 6002 of the Affordable Care Act, also will make information publicly available about physician (or immediate family members of a physician) ownership or investment interests in applicable manufacturers and group purchasing organizations (GPOs). The law specifies that applicable manufacturers must report annually to the Secretary of Health and Human Services all payments or transfers of value (including gifts, consulting fees, research activities, speaking fees, meals, and travel) from applicable manufacturers to covered recipients. In addition to reporting on payments, applicable manufacturers, as well as applicable GPOs, must report ownership and investment interests held by physicians (or the immediate family members of physicians) in such entities. However, the law does not require applicable manufacturers or applicable GPOs to report ownership or investment interests held by teaching hospitals. The law requires CMS to provide applicable manufacturers, applicable GPOs, covered recipients, and physician owners and investors at least 45 days to review, dispute and correct their reported information before posting it on a publicly available website. The information on the website must be easily aggregated, downloaded and searchable. In order to give applicable manufacturers and applicable GPOs sufficient time to prepare, data collection will begin on August 1, 2013. Applicable manufacturers and applicable GPOs will report the data for August through December of 2013 to CMS by March 31, 2014 and CMS will release the data publicly by September 30, 2014. The impact of United States healthcare reform legislation on us remains uncertain. In 2010 federal legislation to reform the United States healthcare system was enacted into law. The legislation is far-reaching and is intended to expand access to health insurance coverage, improve quality and reduce costs over time. We expect the new law will have a significant impact upon various aspects of our business operations. However, it is unclear how the new law will impact patient access to new technologies or reimbursement rates under the Medicare program. Many of the details of the new law will be included in new and revised regulations, which have not yet been promulgated, and require additional guidance and specificity to be provided by the Department of Health and Human Services, Department of Labor and Department of the Treasury. Accordingly, while it is too early to understand and predict the ultimate impact of the new law on our business, the legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents Our business may be adversely affected if consolidation in the healthcare industry leads to demand for price concessions or if we are excluded from being a supplier by a group purchasing organization or similar entity. Because healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade, numerous initiatives and reforms have been launched by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to curb these costs. As a result, there has been a consolidation trend in the healthcare industry to create larger companies, including hospitals, with greater market power. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide products and services to industry participants has become and may continue to become more intense. This has resulted and may continue to result in greater pricing pressures and the exclusion of certain suppliers from important markets as group purchasing organizations, independent delivery networks and large single accounts continue to use their market power to consolidate purchasing decisions. If a group purchasing organization excludes us from being one of their suppliers, our net sales could be adversely impacted. We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies and societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide healthcare industry, which may exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products. Our allograft and mesenchymal stem cell products could expose us to certain risks which could disrupt our business. Our Spinal Implants and Biologics business distributes a product under the brand name Trinity Evolution ®. Trinity Evolution ® is derived from human cadaveric donors, and our ability to distribute the product depends on our supplier continuing to have access to donated human cadaveric tissue, as well as the maintenance of high standards by the supplier in its processing methodology. The supply of such donors is inherently unpredictable and can fluctuate over time. We believe that Trinity Evolution ® is properly classified under the FDA’s HCT/P regulatory paradigm and not as a medical device or as a biologic or drug. There can be no assurance that the FDA would agree that this category of regulatory classification applies to Trinity Evolution ® and the reclassification of this product from a human tissue to a medical device could have adverse consequences for us or for the supplier of this product and make it more difficult or expensive for us to conduct this business by requiring premarket clearance or approval as well as compliance with additional post-market regulatory requirements. The success of our Trinity Evolution ® product will depend on these products achieving broad market acceptance which can depend on the product achieving broad clinical acceptance, the level of third-party reimbursement and the introduction of competing technologies. Because Trinity Evolution ® is classified as an HCT/P product, it can from time to time be subject to recall for safety or administrative reasons. Spinal Implants and Biologics also distribute allograft products that are derived from human tissue harvested from cadavers and which are used for bone reconstruction or repair and which are surgically implanted into the human body. We believe that these allograft products are properly classified as HCT/P products and not as a medical device or a biologic or drug. There can be no assurance that the FDA would agree that this regulatory classification applies to these products and any regulatory reclassification could have adverse consequences for us or for the suppliers of these products and make it more difficult or expensive for us to conduct this business by requiring premarket clearance or approval and compliance with additional post-market regulatory requirements. Moreover, the supply of these products to us could be interrupted by the failure of our suppliers to maintain high standards in performing required donor screening and infectious disease testing of donated human tissue used in producing allograft implants. Our allograft implant business could also be adversely affected by shortages in the supply of donated human tissue or negative publicity concerning methods of recovery of tissue and product liability actions arising out of the distribution of allograft implant products. We may be subject to product liability claims that may not be covered by insurance and could require us to pay substantial sums. We are subject to an inherent risk of, and adverse publicity associated with, product liability and other liability claims, whether or not such claims are valid. We maintain product liability insurance coverage in amounts and scope that we believe is reasonable and adequate. There can be no assurance, however, that product liability or other claims will not exceed our insurance coverage limits or that such insurance will continue to be available on reasonable, commercially acceptable terms, or at all. A successful product liability claim that exceeds our insurance coverage limits could require us to pay substantial sums and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The global recession and further adverse changes in general economic or credit market conditions could adversely impact our sales and operating results. The direction and strength of the U.S. and global economy has been uncertain due to the recent downturn in the economy and difficulties in the credit markets. If economic growth in the U.S. and other countries continues to remain low, or if the credit markets continue to be difficult to access, our distributors, suppliers and other business partners could experience significant disruptions to their businesses and operations which, in turn, could negatively impact our business operations and financial performance along with potentially causing us to be unable to collect existing accounts receivable. In addition, continued weak consumer financial strength and demand could cause a substantial reduction in the sale of our products. Fluctuations in insurance expense could adversely affect our profitability. We hold a number of insurance policies, including product liability insurance, directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, property insurance and workers’ compensation insurance. If the costs of maintaining adequate insurance coverage should increase significantly in the future, our operating results could be materially adversely impacted. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate. Our operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past on a quarterly basis. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future and we may experience losses in the future depending on a number of factors, including the extent to which our products continue to gain or maintain market acceptance, the rate and size of expenditures incurred as we expand our domestic and establish our international sales and distribution networks, the timing and level of reimbursement for our products by third-party payors, the extent to which we are subject to government regulation or enforcement and other factors, many of which are outside our control. 24 Table of Contents New developments by others could make our products or technologies non-competitive or obsolete. The orthopedic medical device industry in which we compete is undergoing, and is characterized by rapid and significant technological change. We expect competition to intensify as technological advances are made. New technologies and products developed by other companies are regularly introduced into the market, which may render our products or technologies non-competitive or obsolete. Our ability to market products successfully depends, in part, upon the acceptance of the products not only by consumers, but also by independent third parties. Our ability to market Spine and Orthopedic products successfully depends, in part, on the acceptance of the products by independent third parties (including hospitals, doctors, other healthcare providers and third-party payors) as well as patients. Unanticipated side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning any of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to maintain hospital approvals or achieve acceptance by prescribing physicians, managed care providers and other retailers, customers and patients. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive. The medical devices industry is highly competitive. We compete with a large number of companies, many of which have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and technical resources than we do. Many of our competitors may be able to develop products and processes competitive with, or superior to, our own. Furthermore, we may not be able to successfully develop or introduce new products that are less costly or offer better performance than those of our competitors, or offer purchasers of our products payment and other commercial terms as favorable as those offered by our competitors. For more information regarding our competitors, see Item 1, “Business,” under the subheading “Competition.” We depend on our senior management team. Our success depends upon the skill, experience and performance of members of our senior management team, who have been critical to the management of our operations and the implementation of our business strategy. We do not have key man insurance on our senior management team, and the loss of one or more key executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our operations and development. In order to compete, we must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and our failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In order to compete, we must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and support positions. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, engineers, technical staff and sales representatives are critical to our business, and competition for experienced employees in the medical device industry can be intense. To attract, retain and motivate qualified employees, we utilize stock-based incentive awards such as employee stock options. If the value of such stock awards does not appreciate as measured by the performance of the price of our common stock and ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain and motivate our employees could be adversely impacted, which could negatively affect our results of operations and/or require us to increase the amount we expend on cash and other forms of compensation. Termination of our existing relationships with our independent sales representatives or distributors could have an adverse effect on our business. We sell our products in many countries through independent distributors. Generally, our independent sales representatives and our distributors have the exclusive right to sell our products in their respective territories and are generally prohibited from selling any products that compete with ours. The terms of these agreements vary in length, generally from one to ten years. Under the terms of our distribution agreements, each party has the right to terminate in the event of a material breach by the other party and we generally have the right to terminate if the distributor does not meet agreed sales targets or fails to make payments on time. Any termination of our existing relationships with independent sales representatives or distributors could have an adverse effect on our business unless and until commercially acceptable alternative distribution arrangements are put in place. In addition, we operate in portions of Europe that have been disproportionately affected by the global recession, such as Greece and Italy, and we bear risk that existing or future accounts receivable may be uncollected if these distributors or hospitals experience disruptions to their business that cause them to discontinue paying ongoing accounts payable or become insolvent. We are party to numerous contractual relationships. We are party to numerous contracts in the normal course of our business. We have contractual relationships with suppliers, distributors and agents, as well as service providers. In the aggregate, these contractual relationships are necessary for us to operate our business. From time to time, we amend, terminate or negotiate our contracts. We are also periodically subject to, or make claims of breach of contract, or threaten legal action relating to our contracts. These actions may result in litigation. At any one time, we have a number of negotiations under way for new or amended commercial agreements. We devote substantial time, effort and expense to the administration and negotiation of contracts involved in our business. However, these contracts may not continue in effect past their current term or we may not be able to negotiate satisfactory contracts in the future with current or new business partners. 25 Table of Contents We face risks related to foreign currency exchange rates. Because some of our revenue, operating expenses, assets and liabilities are denominated in foreign currencies, we are subject to foreign exchange risks that could adversely affect our operations and reported results. To the extent that we incur expenses or earn revenue in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, any change in the values of those foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could cause our profits to decrease or our products to be less competitive against those of our competitors. To the extent that our current assets denominated in foreign currency are greater or less than our current liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, we have potential foreign exchange exposure. We have substantial activities outside of the U.S. that are subject to the impact of foreign exchange rates. The fluctuations of foreign exchange rates during 2012 have had a unfavorable impact of $9.8 million on net sales from continuing operations outside of the U.S. Although we seek to manage our foreign currency exposure by matching non-dollar revenues and expenses, exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the future. To minimize such exposures, we enter into currency hedges from time to time. At December 31, 2012, we had outstanding a currency swap to hedge a €28.7 million foreign currency exposure. We are subject to differing tax rates in several jurisdictions in which we operate. We have subsidiaries in several countries. Certain of our subsidiaries sell products directly to other Orthofix subsidiaries or provide marketing and support services to other Orthofix subsidiaries. These intercompany sales and support services involve subsidiaries operating in jurisdictions with differing tax rates. Tax authorities in these jurisdictions may challenge our treatment of such intercompany transactions. If we are unsuccessful in defending our treatment of intercompany transactions, we may be subject to additional tax liability or penalty, which could adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to differing customs and import/export rules in several jurisdictions in which we operate. We import and export our products to and from a number of different countries around the world. These product movements involve subsidiaries and third-parties operating in jurisdictions with different customs and import/export rules and regulations. Customs authorities in such jurisdictions may challenge our treatment of customs and import/export rules relating to product shipments under aspects of their respective customs laws and treaties. If we are unsuccessful in defending our treatment of customs and import/export classifications, we may be subject to additional customs duties, fines or penalties that could adversely affect our profitability. Our business is subject to economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international sales and operations. Since we sell our products in many different countries, our business is subject to risks associated with conducting business internationally. We anticipate that net sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total net sales. In addition, a number of our manufacturing facilities and suppliers are located outside the U.S. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements or other restrictive actions by foreign governments; • consequences from changes in tax or customs laws; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; • differing labor regulations; • differing protection of intellectual property; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and • application of the FCPA and other anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws to our operations. 26 Table of Contents We may incur costs and undertake new debt and contingent liabilities in a search for acquisitions, and we may be unsuccessful in our search for such acquisitions or have difficulty integrating any acquired businesses or product lines. We continue to search for viable acquisition candidates that would expand our market sector or global presence. We also seek additional products appropriate for current distribution channels. The search for an acquisition of another company or product line by us could result in our incurring costs from such efforts as well as the undertaking of new debt and contingent liabilities from such searches or acquisitions. Such costs may be incurred at any time and may vary in size depending on the scope of the acquisition or product transactions and may have a material impact on our results of operations. In addition, we compete with other medical device companies for these opportunities, and we may be unable to consummate such acquisitions on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. To the extent we are able to make acquisitions; we may experience difficulties in integrating any acquired companies or products into our existing business, including attrition of key personnel from acquired companies or businesses, and significant costs, charges or write downs. In addition, unforeseen operating difficulties integrating acquired companies or businesses could require us to devote significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be available to our existing businesses. To the extent we issue additional equity in connection with acquisitions, this may dilute our existing shareholders. We may incur significant costs or retain liabilities associated with disposition activity. We may from time to time sell, license, assign or otherwise dispose of or divest assets, the stock of subsidiaries or individual products, product lines or technologies which we determine are no longer desirable for us to own, some of which may be material. Any such activity could result in our incurring costs and expenses from these efforts, some of which could be significant, as well as retaining liabilities related to the assets or properties disposed of even though, for instance, the income-generating assets have been disposed of. These costs and expenses may be incurred at any time and may have a material impact on our results of operations. Our subsidiary, Orthofix Holdings, Inc.’s senior secured bank credit facility contains significant financial and operating restrictions, including financial covenants that we may be unable to satisfy in the future. On August 30, 2010, Orthofix Holdings, Inc. (“Orthofix Holdings”) entered into a new senior secured bank credit facility with a syndicate of financial institutions, and used these borrowings to repay all amounts owed under the old credit facility. The agreement was further amended in May 2011. We and certain of Orthofix Holdings’ direct and indirect subsidiaries, including Orthofix Inc., and Blackstone have guaranteed the obligations of Orthofix Holdings under the senior secured bank facility. The senior secured bank facility provides for (1) a five-year term loan facility of $100 million, which was paid in full during 2012, and (2) a five-year revolving credit facility of $200 million of which we had $20 million outstanding and $180 million available to be drawn as of December 31, 2012. The credit agreement contains negative covenants applicable to us and our subsidiaries, including restrictions on indebtedness, liens, dividends and mergers and sales of assets. The credit agreement also contains certain financial covenants and a breach of these covenants could result in an event of default under the credit agreement, which could permit acceleration of the debt payments under the facility. We believe that we were in compliance with the negative covenants at December 31, 2012 and there were no events of default. Further, we believe that we should be able to meet these financial covenants in future fiscal quarters, however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so, and failure to do so could result in an event of default under the credit agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. 27 Table of Contents The conditions of the U.S. and international capital and credit markets may adversely affect our ability to draw on our current revolving credit facility or obtain future short-term or long-term lending. Global market and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. In particular, the cost and availability of funding for many companies has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. These forces reached unprecedented levels in 2008, resulting in the bankruptcy or acquisition of, or government assistance to, several major domestic and international financial institutions. These events have significantly diminished overall confidence in the financial and credit markets. There can be no assurances that recent government responses to the disruptions in the financial and credit markets will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. We maintain a five-year revolving credit facility of $200 million upon which we had $180 million available to be drawn as of December 31, 2012. However, to the extent our business requires us to access the credit markets in the future and we are not able to do so, including in the event that lenders cease to lend to us, or cease to be capable of lending, for any reason, we could experience a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and ability to borrow additional funds. This might impair our ability to obtain sufficient funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development and other corporate purposes. The conditions of the U.S. and international capital and credit markets may adversely affect our interest expense under our existing credit facility. Our senior bank facility provides for a five-year term loan facility of $100 million which was paid in full during 2012, and a five-year revolving credit facility of $200 million of which we had $20 million outstanding and $180 million available to be drawn as of December 31, 2012. Borrowings under the facility bear interest at a floating rate, which will be, at our option, either the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus an applicable margin or a base rate plus an applicable margin (in each case subject to adjustment based on financial ratios). Such applicable margin will be up to 3.25% for LIBOR borrowings and up to 2.25% for base rate borrowings depending upon a measurement of the consolidated leverage ratio with respect to the immediately preceding four fiscal quarters. Our overall effective interest rate as of December 31, 2012 on our senior secured debt was 2.7%. Our interest expense that we incur under our credit facilities could increase if there are increases in either the LIBOR rate or base rate. (See Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk in this Form 10-K.) Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in Item 7 of this Form 10-K). Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that leads us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. Valuation adjustments to Goodwill, which represent a significant portion of our total assets, may adversely affect our net income and we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. A substantial portion of our assets is comprised of goodwill. We may not receive the recorded value for our goodwill if we sell or liquidate our business or assets. The material concentration of goodwill increases the risk of a large charge to earnings if recoverability of goodwill is impaired, which would have an adverse effect on our net income. 28 Table of Contents Provisions of Curaçao law may have adverse consequences for our shareholders. We were organized under the laws of the Netherlands Antilles in 1987, with our principal executive office in the Netherlands Antilles located on the island of Curaçao. Prior to October 10, 2010, the Netherlands Antilles, together with Aruba and the Netherlands, formed the Kingdom of the Netherlands, with Curaçao being an island territory of the Netherlands Antilles. Under a constitutional reform of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, agreed upon among the Netherlands Antilles, Aruba and the Netherlands, the Netherlands Antilles was dissolved effective October 10, 2010. Also effective October 10, 2010, Curaçao became an individual constitutional entity within the Kingdom of the Netherlands, having its own government and laws. As a result of the constitutional reform and the dissolution of the Netherlands Antilles, the Netherlands Antilles law ceased to exist and Orthofix is now a Curaçao legal entity subject to Curaçao law. Although Curaçao has become a separate and autonomous country with its own laws and regulations, the civil and corporate Netherlands Antilles law, as they applied to Orthofix before October 10, 2010, did not change under the constitutional reform. In effect, Curaçao has adopted the Netherlands Antilles civil and corporate law (to which Orthofix was subject) that was in effect prior to October 10, 2010. Our corporate affairs are therefore now governed by our Articles of Association and the corporate law of Curaçao as laid down in Book 2 of the Curaçao Civil Code (“CCC”). Although certain of the provisions of the CCC resemble certain of the provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the U.S., principles of law relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, the fiduciary duties of management and the rights of our shareholders may differ from those that would apply if Orthofix were incorporated in a jurisdiction within the U.S. For example, there is no statutory right of appraisal under Curaçao corporate law, nor is there a right for shareholders of a Curaçao corporation to sue a corporation derivatively. In addition, we have been advised by Curaçao counsel that it is unlikely that (1) the courts of Curaçao would enforce judgments entered by U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws and (2) actions can be brought in Curaçao in relation to liabilities predicated upon the U.S. federal securities laws. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 29 Table of Contents 