ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We face a number of risks and uncertainties, including the following: WE MAY BE UNABLE TO COMPETE SUCCESSFULLY IN THE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE BEVERAGE CATEGORY. The markets for our products are extremely competitive. In comparison to the major national brand beverage manufacturers, we are a relatively small participant in the industry. We face competition from the national brand beverage manufacturers in all of our markets and from other retailer brand beverage manufacturers in the U.S. and the U.K. If our competitors reduce their selling prices or increase the frequency of their promotional activities in our core markets or if our customers do not allocate adequate shelf space for the beverages we supply, we could experience a decline in our volumes or be forced to reduce pricing or increase capital and other expenditures, any of which could adversely affect our profitability. BECAUSE A SMALL NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS ACCOUNT FOR A SIGNIFICANT PERCENTAGE OF OUR SALES, THE LOSS OF ANY SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMER COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. A significant portion of our sales is concentrated in a small number of customers. Our customers include many large national and regional grocery, mass-merchandise, drugstore, wholesale and convenience store chains in our core markets of North America and the U.K. and Europe. Sales to our top customer in 2005 and 2004 accounted for 40% of our total sales, and sales to the top ten customers in 2005 and 2004 were 65% and 68%, respectively. We expect that sales of our products to a limited number of customers will continue to account for a high percentage of our sales in the foreseeable future. The loss of any significant customer, or customers which in the aggregate represent a significant portion of our sales, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows. At December 31, 2005, we have $126.6 million of customer relationships recorded as an intangible asset. The permanent loss of any customer included in the intangible asset will result in impairment in the value of the intangible asset. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO MAINTAIN RELATIONSHIPS WITH OUR RAW MATERIAL SUPPLIERS, WE MAY INCUR HIGHER SUPPLY COSTS OR BE UNABLE TO DELIVER PRODUCTS TO OUR CUSTOMERS. The principal raw materials required to produce our products are PET bottles, caps and PET preforms, cans and ends, labels, cartons and trays, concentrates, sweeteners and carbon dioxide. We typically enter into annual supply arrangements rather than long-term contracts with our suppliers, which means that our suppliers are obligated to continue to supply us with materials for one-year periods, at the end of which we must either renegotiate the contracts with our incumbent suppliers or we would be required to find an alternative source for supply. With respect to some of our key packaging supplies, such as aluminum cans and ends, and some of our key ingredients, such as artificial sweeteners, we have entered into long-term supply agreements, the terms of which range from 1 to 6 years, and therefore we are assured of a supply of those key packaging supplies and ingredients for a longer period of time. During 2004, we extended our supply contract with CCS from its original expiration date of December 31, 2006 to December 31, 2011. The contract provides that CCS will supply all of our aluminum can and end requirements worldwide, subject to certain exceptions. The contract contains a pricing mechanism for certain materials, standard representations, warranties, indemnities and termination events, including termination events related to bankruptcy or insolvency of either party. As with our annual supply contracts, we must either renegotiate these long-term supply agreements with the incumbent suppliers when they expire or find alternative sources for supply. 21 We rely upon our ongoing relationships with our key suppliers to support our operations. We believe that we will be able to either renegotiate contracts with these suppliers when they expire or, alternatively, if we are unable to renegotiate contracts with our key suppliers, we believe that we could replace them. We could, however, incur higher ingredient and packaging supply costs in renegotiating contracts with existing suppliers or replacing those suppliers or we could experience temporary dislocations in our ability to deliver products to our customers, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. OUR INGREDIENTS AND PACKAGING SUPPLIES ARE SUBJECT TO PRICE INCREASES AND WE MAY BE UNABLE TO EFFECTIVELY PASS RISING COSTS ON TO OUR CUSTOMERS. We bear the risk of increasing prices on the ingredients and packaging in our products. The majority of our ingredient and packaging supply contracts allow our suppliers to alter the costs they charge us based on changes in the costs of the underlying commodities that are used to produce them. Aluminum for cans, resin for PET bottles and high fructose corn syrup for sweeteners are examples of these underlying commodities. In addition, the contracts for certain of our ingredients and packaging materials permit our suppliers to increase the costs they charge us based on increases in their cost of converting those underlying commodities into the materials that we purchase. In certain cases those increases are subject to negotiated limits and, in other cases, they are not. These changes in the prices that we pay for ingredients and packaging materials occur at times that vary by product and supplier, but are principally on semi-annual and annual bases. Accordingly, we bear the risk of increases in the costs of these ingredients and packaging materials, including the underlying costs of the commodities that comprise them and, to some extent, the costs of converting those commodities into finished products. We do not use derivatives to manage this risk. If the cost of these ingredients or packaging materials increases, we may be unable to pass these costs along to our customers through adjustments to the prices we charge. If we cannot pass on these increases to our customers on a timely basis, they could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. IF WE FAIL TO MANAGE OUR EXPANDING OPERATIONS SUCCESSFULLY, OUR BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS MAY BE MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECTED. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to manage new acquisitions. In recent years, we have grown our business and beverage offerings primarily through acquisition of other companies, new product lines and growth with key customers. A part of our strategy is to continue to expand our business through acquisitions and alliances. To succeed with this strategy, we must identify appropriate acquisition or strategic alliance candidates. The success of this strategy also depends on our ability to manage and integrate acquisitions and alliances at a pace consistent with the growth of our business. We cannot provide assurance that acquisition opportunities will be available, that we will continue to acquire businesses and product lines or that any of the businesses or product lines that we acquire or align with will be integrated successfully into our business or prove profitable. IF THE COMPETITION COMMISSION IN THE U.K. DOES NOT APPROVE THE MACAW ACQUISITION, WE MIGHT BE REQUIRED TO SELL ALL OR PART OF THIS BUSINESS AND MAY NOT RECOVER OUR FULL COST. When we completed the Macaw Acquisition, our valuation of this business was based on market conditions at the time of the acquisition and included synergies we expect to be able to achieve once it is integrated into our existing U.K. business. Our total cost of the Macaw Acquisition was $135.1 million, including goodwill of $69.4 million. The Competition Commission in the U.K. is currently investigating the Macaw Acquisition. Should the Competition Commission rule against us, we could be required to divest ourselves of all or a part of this business. Were a divestiture required, we would probably need the consent of our lenders under the terms of our credit agreement. Moreover, market conditions may deteriorate or the purchaser may not be able to achieve the synergies that we would expect to achieve. As a result, we may not be able to recover our full cost. OUR SUCCESS DEPENDS, IN PART, ON OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, WHICH WE MAY BE UNABLE TO PROTECT. We possess certain intellectual property that is important to our business. This intellectual property includes trade secrets, in the form of the concentrate formulas for most of the beverages that we produce, and trademarks for the names of the beverages that we sell, which are trademarks that we either own or license from our retailer brand customers and others. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. To protect this intellectual property, we rely principally on registration of trademarks, contractual responsibilities and restrictions in agreements (such as indemnification, nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements) with employees, consultants and customers, and on common law and statutory protections afforded to trademarks, trade secrets and proprietary "know-how". In addition, we vigorously pursue any person who infringes on our intellectual property using any and all legal remedies available. Notwithstanding our efforts, we may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property for a number of reasons, including: - - our competitors may independently develop intellectual property that is similar to or better than ours; 22 - - employees, consultants or customers may not abide by their contractual agreements and the cost of enforcing those agreements may be prohibitive, or those agreements may prove to be unenforceable or more limited than anticipated; - - foreign intellectual property laws may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights; and - - our intellectual property rights may be successfully challenged, invalidated or circumvented. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, it would weaken our competitive position and we could face significant expense to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. At December 31, 2005, we had $80.4 million of rights recorded as an intangible asset. OUR GEOGRAPHIC DIVERSITY SUBJECTS US TO THE RISK OF CURRENCY FLUCTUATIONS. We are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, including those between the U.S. dollar, on the one hand, and the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling, on the other hand. Our operations outside of the U.S. accounted for approximately 29% of our 2005 sales. Accordingly, currency fluctuations in respect of our outstanding non-U.S. dollar denominated net asset balances may affect our reported results and competitive position. A PORTION OF OUR INDEBTEDNESS IS VARIABLE RATE DEBT, AND CHANGES IN INTEREST RATES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT US BY CAUSING US TO INCUR HIGHER INTEREST COSTS WITH RESPECT TO SUCH VARIABLE RATE DEBT. Our credit and securitization facilities subject us to interest rate risk. We have a secured revolving credit facility, under which we borrow from time to time for various purposes, including to fund our day-to-day operations and to finance acquisitions. The maximum amount that we may borrow under these facilities was increased from $100.0 million to $225.0 million on August 10, 2005. We obtain funding under the securitization facility for our day-to-day operations. The maximum amount that we may borrow under this facility is $75.0 million, based on eligible receivables and various reserves required in the facility. As of December 31, 2005, total borrowings under these facilities were $151.3 million. The interest rate applicable to our revolving credit facility is variable, meaning that the rate at which we pay interest on amounts borrowed under the facility fluctuates with changes in interest rates and our leverage. The interest rate applicable to our securitization facility is also variable, based on the cost of borrowing of Park Avenue Receivables Company, LLC and certain other financial institutions, as required (the "Purchasers"). Accordingly, with respect to any amounts from time to time outstanding under this facility, we are exposed to changes in interest rates. We do not currently use derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. However, we do regularly review the structure of our indebtedness and consider changes to the proportion of variable versus fixed rate debt through refinancing, interest rate swaps or other measures in response to the changing economic environment. We cannot assure that we will be able to continue to refinance our indebtedness on terms that are favorable to us. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness or otherwise adequately manage our debt structure in response to changes in the market, our interest expense could increase, which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. IF WE BREACH THE COVENANTS AND CONDITIONS SET OUT IN OUR SENIOR SECURED CREDIT FACILITIES OR SECURITIZATION FACILITY, THE LENDERS COULD TERMINATE THE FACILITIES OR WE WOULD HAVE TO RENEGOTIATE THESE AGREEMENTS AND MAY INCUR HIGHER FEES AND INTEREST COSTS. Our senior secured credit facilities allow for revolving credit borrowings of up to $225.0 million provided we are in compliance with the covenants and conditions of the agreement. Our securitization facility allows for borrowings of up to $75.0 million, depending on eligible receivables balances and calculations of reserves. Both facilities contain cross default provisions. If we are in default under one facility, default is triggered under the other facility. As of December 31, 2005, total borrowings under these facilities were $151.3 million. If we breach the covenants, or an event occurs that would have a material adverse effect on us, we would be required to renegotiate the agreements with higher fees and interest rates, provided the lenders wish to renegotiate. The lenders could choose to terminate the facilities in which case we believe we could replace them. We could however incur higher fees and interest expense which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. The senior unsecured notes include covenants that limit new borrowings with certain exceptions, including borrowings based on receivables and inventory, unless certain conditions are met. WE ARE NOT IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE ONTARIO ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION ACT ("EPA") AND, IF THE ONTARIO GOVERNMENT SEEKS TO ENFORCE THOSE REQUIREMENTS OR IMPLEMENTS MODIFICATIONS TO THEM, WE COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. Certain regulations under the EPA provide that a minimum percentage of a bottler's soft drink sales within specified areas in Ontario must be made in refillable containers. The penalty for non-compliance is a fine, which for companies ranges from $50,000 per day on which the offense occurs or 23 continues for the first conviction to $100,000 per day for each subsequent conviction, although such fines may be increased to equal the amount of monetary benefit acquired by the offender as a result of the commission of the offense. We, and we believe other industry participants, are currently not in compliance with the requirements of the EPA. Ontario is not enforcing the EPA at this time, but if it chose to enforce the EPA in the future, we could incur fines for non-compliance and the possible prohibition of sales of soft drinks in non-refillable containers in Ontario. We estimate that approximately 4% of our sales would be affected by the possible limitation on sales of soft drinks in non-refillable containers in Ontario if the Ontario Ministry of the Environment initiated an action to enforce the provisions of the EPA against us. In April 2003, the Ontario Ministry of the Environment proposed to revoke these regulations in favor of new mechanisms under the Ontario Waste Diversion Act to enhance diversion from disposal of carbonated soft drink containers. On December 22, 2003, the Ontario provincial government approved the implementation of the Blue Box Program plan under the Ministry of Environment Waste Diversion Act. The Program requires those parties who are brand owners or licensees of rights to brands which are manufactured, packaged or distributed for sale in Ontario to contribute to the net cost of the Blue Box Program. We generally manufacture, package and distribute products for and on behalf of third party customers. Therefore, we do not believe that we will be responsible for direct costs of the Program. However, our customers may attempt to pass these costs, or a portion of them, onto us. We do not believe that the costs for which we may ultimately be responsible under this Program will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations; however, we cannot guarantee this outcome. The Blue Box Program does not revoke any of the regulations mentioned above under the EPA regarding refillable containers, although the industry anticipates that they will be reversed in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 