ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS THE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES DESCRIBED BELOW ARE THOSE THAT WE CURRENTLY BELIEVE MAY MATERIALLY AFFECT OUR COMPANY. IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING RISKS ACTUALLY OCCUR, THEY MAY MATERIALLY HARM OUR BUSINESS, OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Risks Relating to Our Financial Position and Capital Requirements We have incurred significant losses to date and may never be profitable. Although we had net income in 2010 of $85.2 million, primarily attributable to our License Agreement with Merck in May 2010, we have incurred significant losses since our formation in 1991, and have an accumulated deficit of $433.4 million at December 31, 2010. Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in research and development of our product candidates, including clinical development of ridaforolimus and ponatinib, and from general and administrative costs, including costs incurred to prosecute and protect our intellectual property, associated with our operations. It is likely that we will incur significant operating losses for the foreseeable future, as we continue our research and development activities and begin to build a sales and marketing organization in anticipation of obtaining regulatory approval to market one or more of our product candidates, which approval may never occur. We currently have no product revenues, limited license revenues and limited commitments for future licensing revenues other than our License Agreement with Merck, and we may not be able to generate such revenues in the future. If our losses continue and we and our existing partners or potential future partners are unable to successfully develop, commercialize, manufacture and market our product candidates and/or we are unable to enter into additional collaboration agreements or licenses for our intellectual property, we may never generate sufficient revenues to achieve profitability. Even if we and our partners are able to commercialize products and we are able to enter into collaboration agreements or licenses in the future, we may never generate sufficient revenues to have profitable operations. Insufficient funding may jeopardize our research and development programs and may require us to reduce our operations or prevent commercialization of our products and technologies. We have funded our operations to date through sales of equity securities, debt, the upfront and milestone payments received from Merck since July 2007, and, to a limited extent, operating revenues. Most of our operating revenue to date has been generated through previous collaborative research and development agreements and existing licenses. As of December 31, 2010, we had cash and cash equivalents of $103.6 million. We estimate that our cash used in operations in 2011 will be in the range of $53 million to $56 million and that our net use of cash will be in the range of $41 million to $44 million. These estimates assume receipt of a $25 million milestone payment from Merck in 2011 for the acceptance by the FDA of a new drug application for ridaforolimus in patients with metastatic sarcomas. We will require substantial additional funding for our research and development programs (including pre-clinical development and clinical trials), for the pursuit of regulatory approvals and for establishing or accessing manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities related to our other product candidates. We will also require funding for our other operating expenses (including intellectual property protection and enforcement) as well as capital expenditures to maintain and improve our facility, equipment and systems. We have the opportunity to receive milestone payments from Merck in an amount of up to $65 million related to regulatory filing and approvals of ridaforolimus in sarcomas, which could occur in 2011 or 2012, as well as funding from a potential partnering transaction related to ponatinib outside the United States. However, we may not receive these payments and funding in the timeframes we currently anticipate, or at all. We also have, at December 31, 2010, outstanding warrants to purchase 9,563,610 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $2.15 per share, which expire on February 25, 2012. Of this amount, warrants to purchase 2,962,500 shares have been exercised in January and February of 2011 for proceeds of $6.4 million. Although we are eligible to receive up to an additional $14.2 million if the remaining warrants are exercised, there can be no assurance that the warrants will be exercised before they expire in February 2012. 18 In addition, we may from time to time access funding by issuing common stock or other securities in private placements or public offerings, including under our universal shelf registration statement under which we currently have $65.8 million in securities available for issuance. We may also from time to time seek additional funding from other product-based collaborations such as partnering of our product candidates ponatinib and AP26113, technology licensing, or the issuance of debt. However, such additional funding may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Accordingly, we may not be able to secure the significant funding which is required to maintain our operations or continue to fund current or future research and development programs at their current levels or at levels that may be required in the future, or establish or access capabilities necessary for commercialization of our product candidates. If we cannot secure adequate funding from these or other sources, we may be required to reduce our operations, to delay, scale back, eliminate or terminate clinical trials for one or more of our other research and development programs, or to enter into licenses, settlements or other arrangements with third parties, on terms that may be unfavorable to us, to sell, license or relinquish rights to develop or commercialize our product candidates, approved products, technologies or intellectual property. Raising additional capital by issuing securities or through collaboration and licensing arrangements may cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. We may seek to raise the additional capital necessary to fund our operations through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, and collaboration and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders’ ownership interest will be diluted, and the terms of such securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect our stockholders’ rights. Our stockholders’ ownership interest will also be diluted if additional warrants are exercised. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Significant additional losses or insufficient funding may cause us to default on certain covenants of our loan documents. At December 31, 2010, we had $9.6 million outstanding under a term loan agreement with a bank, which agreement was amended in January 2011 to increase the loan balance to $14.0 million and extend our quarterly payments through December 31, 2015. Pursuant to this loan agreement, we are required to maintain certain financial and non-financial covenants, including minimum cash, cash equivalents and investments of $15 million, a default of any of which would allow the bank to demand payment of its loan. We currently have sufficient liquidity to fund payment of this loan if demand for payment were made. However, if we do not receive sufficient revenues from our collaborations and licenses or from any sales of our products, if approved, or if we are unable to raise adequate financing to fund continuing operations or otherwise to refinance our loan, we may not be able to maintain compliance with loan covenants, may be required to pay off the loan and may be required to reduce our spending on operations. 19 Risks Relating to the Discovery, Development and Commercialization of Our Product Candidates We have no product candidates that have been approved by the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority, and we and our partners may never succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for any products, developing marketable products or generating product revenues. We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery and development of drugs to provide therapeutic intervention in treating human diseases at the cellular level. As with all scientific endeavors, we face much trial and error, and we and our partners may fail at numerous stages along the way, which would inhibit us and our partners from successfully developing, obtaining approval for and marketing our drug candidates. We do not currently have any products on the market and have no product revenues. Our lead product candidate, ridaforolimus, is currently being developed by our partner Merck for potential cancer indications and by our partners, Medinol and ICON, for use in stents or other medical devices to reduce reblockage of injured vessels following interventions in which stents are used in conjunction with balloon angioplasty. Ridaforolimus is currently being studied in a Phase 3 clinical trial in patients with metastatic sarcomas and in multiple Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials in various other cancer indications and in combination with other agents. Our second product candidate, ponatinib, is currently being studied in Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials in patients with hematologic malignancies. Our third product candidate, AP26113, is currently in preclinical testing and investigational new drug, or IND, enabling studies. We anticipate submitting an IND by mid-year 2011 and beginning a Phase 1 clinical trial shortly thereafter. Therefore, our success is substantially dependent on (1) the ability of Merck to obtain marketing approval for ridaforolimus for metastatic sarcoma and other cancer indications, (2) the ability of our partners, Medinol and ICON, to obtain marketing approval for stents or other medical devices delivering ridaforolimus, and (3) our ability to successfully complete clinical development and obtain marketing approval for ponatinib, AP26113 and our other product candidates, or enter into collaboration agreements for these product candidates on terms favorable to us. We and our partners have yet to submit any applications for marketing approval for ridaforolimus, ponatinib or any of our other product candidates to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. Factors which could affect the ability to obtain regulatory approval and to achieve market acceptance and gain market share for ridaforolimus, ponatinib and any other product candidate of ours include, among other factors, product formulation, dose, dosage regimen, the ability to obtain timely and sufficient patient enrollment in clinical trials, the risk of occurrence of adverse side effects in patients participating in clinical trials, the ability to manufacture, directly or indirectly, sufficient quantities of product candidates at commercially reasonable costs, the ability to fund commercial development and to build or access a sales force in the marketplace, the ability to successfully differentiate product candidates from competitive product(s), the ability to educate physicians and build awareness about our product candidates, and the ability to sell, market and distribute, directly or indirectly, such product candidates. We do not expect to have any products on the market before 2012, at the earliest, and ultimately we and our partners may not succeed in developing or commercializing any products which will generate revenues for our company. If we and our partners are not successful in developing or marketing ridaforolimus or our other product candidates, we will not be profitable. Positive results from earlier stage preclinical or clinical trials may not be replicated in later-stage clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in early-stage development. Accordingly, the results to date from preclinical studies and clinical trials for ridaforolimus and ponatinib may not be predictive of the results to be obtained from ongoing or future clinical trials. Furthermore, potential competitive commercial factors may influence future decisions and directions by us or our partners on which clinical indications to pursue and when. If we or our partners are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of our product candidates beyond those currently contemplated, we or our partners may be delayed in obtaining, or may not be able to obtain, marketing approval for these product candidates, and we may lose the opportunity to earn additional development or regulatory milestones or royalties or generate product revenues. 20 Competing technologies may render some or all of our programs or future products noncompetitive or obsolete. Many well-known pharmaceutical, healthcare and biotechnology companies, academic and research institutions and government agencies, which have substantially greater capital, research and development capabilities and experience than us or our potential partners, are presently engaged in one or more of the following activities: ● developing products based on cell signaling, cancer biology, and computational chemistry; ● conducting research and development programs for the treatment of the various potential disease indications in which we are focused; and ● manufacturing, marketing and selling pharmaceutical or medical device products for treatment of diseases in all of the various disease indications in which we or our current or possible future partners are focused. Some of these entities already have competitive products on the market or product candidates in clinical trials or in more advanced preclinical studies than we do. Many of these entities also have substantially greater research, development, manufacturing and marketing resources and experience than us. In particular, we are aware that Pfizer and Novartis have mTOR inhibitors on the market which are competitive with ridaforolimus, our lead product candidate. Decisions taken by either of these parties regarding clinical initiatives, including Phase 3 trials, of their mTOR inhibitors may impact or block the clinical and commercial opportunities available to us and Merck for ridaforolimus. Additionally, PharmaMar has a marine derived antitumoral agent currently approved for the treatment of soft tissue sarcomas in Europe and Takeda Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. has mifamurtide, an immunotherapy product approved for treatment of bone sarcomas in Europe. By virtue of having or introducing competitive products on the market before us, these entities may gain a competitive advantage. Competing technologies may render some or all of our programs or future products noncompetitive or obsolete, and we may not be able to make the enhancements to our technology necessary to compete successfully with newly emerging technologies. Competing products on the market or in development may also lead us and our collaborators to revise or cease development of our product candidates in one or more indications for commercial reasons, even where clinical data may be promising. If we are unable to successfully compete in our chosen markets, we will not become profitable. If we are unable to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we may be unable to successfully market and sell any products, even if we are able to obtain regulatory approval. Although Merck has responsibility under our May 2010 License Agreement for all sales and marketing activities for our lead product candidate, ridaforolimus, we have an option to co-promote ridaforolimus in the United States, which we have elected to exercise for the sarcoma indication, and we currently intend to retain our rights to commercialize our other product candidates, including ponatinib, in the United States and potentially in Europe. We have no experience in marketing or selling any products or with respect to pricing and obtaining adequate third-party reimbursement for drugs. In order to market our product candidates, if they are approved, we will need to build a marketing organization and a specialized sales force, which requires substantial efforts and significant management and financial resources. While we intend to stage our commitments to the extent possible in consideration of the development timelines, in order to support an effective launch of any product, we will need to make significant financial commitments to our marketing organization prior to receiving regulatory approval. We will need to devote significant effort, in particular, to recruiting individuals with experience in the sales and marketing of pharmaceutical products. Competition for personnel with these skills is very high and may be particularly difficult for us while our present candidates are yet to be approved and we will be competing with companies that are currently marketing approved, successful drugs. Accordingly, we may be unable to successfully, directly or indirectly, sell any product candidates that we obtain marketing approval to sell. If we are unable to effectively sell our products, our ability to generate revenues will be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to hire, in a timely manner, the qualified sales and marketing personnel we need, if at all. In addition, we may not be able to enter into any marketing or distribution agreements on acceptable terms, if at all. If we cannot establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities as we intend, either by developing our own capabilities or entering into agreements with third parties, sales of future products, if any, may be harmed. 21 If our product candidates are not accepted by patients, physicians and insurers, we will not be successful. Our success is dependent on the acceptance of any approved products. Our product candidates may not achieve market acceptance among patients, physicians or third-party payors, even if we obtain necessary regulatory and reimbursement approvals. Physicians and health care payors may conclude that any of our product candidates are not as safe and/or effective as competing therapies or are not as attractive based on a cost/benefit analysis as alternative treatments. For example, physicians may elect not to prescribe our drugs, and patients may elect not to request or take them, for a variety of reasons including: lower demonstrated clinical safety and efficacy compared to other drugs; prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; lack of cost-effectiveness; lack of reimbursement availability from third-party payors; a decision to wait for the approval of other therapies that have significant perceived advantages over our drug candidates; convenience and ease of administration; other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and ineffective marketing and distribution support. Failure to achieve significant market acceptance of our product candidates, or to be paid and adequate amount for our product candidates, will harm our business. We believe that recommendations by physicians and health care payors will be essential for market acceptance of any product candidates. If our product candidates are approved and fail to achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to generate significant revenues. If we develop a product for commercial use, a subsequent product liability-related claim or recall could have an adverse effect on our business. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products. Prior to obtaining regulatory approval to market our products, we or our partners are required to test such products in human clinical trials at health care institutions pursuant to agreements which indemnify such institutions in case of harm caused to patients by our products. We may not be able to avoid significant product liability exposure resulting from use of our products. A product liability-related claim or recall could be detrimental to our business. In addition, except for insurance covering product use in our clinical trials, we do not currently have any product liability insurance, and we may not be able to obtain or maintain such insurance on acceptable terms, or we may not be able to obtain any insurance to provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities, including liabilities arising from our clinical trials. Our inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or limit the commercialization of any products that we or our partners may develop. Risks Relating to Our Dependence on Third Parties Because we have licensed our lead product candidate, ridaforolimus, to Merck, we are dependent on Merck for the successful development and commercialization of ridaforolimus. We have entered into a license agreement with Merck for the development and commercialization of ridaforolimus, and we may enter into additional such licenses or collaborations for our other product candidates. Among other provisions, Merck is responsible for the development of ridaforolimus in multiple oncology indications. We will depend heavily on Merck for the successful development and commercialization of ridaforolimus. We would expect to be dependent upon other partners, if we enter into arrangements with one or more of them, to successfully develop and commercialize our other product candidates, including ponatinib. There can be no assurance that Merck will satisfy its obligations to develop ridaforolimus in multiple oncology indications or that it will be successful in developing and commercializing ridaforolimus or that we will be able to secure any other partners for ponatinib or our other product candidates on terms favorable to us, or at all. 22 In addition, we cannot predict the success of our License Agreement with Merck or with any other license or collaboration we may enter. Each collaboration or license agreement may involve a complex allocation of responsibilities, costs and benefits. The third party may be responsible for conducting and funding much of the future development and regulatory approval activities for a product candidate and have control over the conduct and timing of development efforts for the product candidate. A third party’s failure to devote sufficient financial and other resources to the development plan may delay the clinical development of a product candidate, which could lead to the delay in payment of clinical and regulatory milestones under our agreements and may delay eventual commercialization of a product candidate and any royalties we could receive on commercial sales. We have limited experience in conducting clinical trials and are dependent upon the ability of third parties, including Merck, contract research organizations, collaborative academic groups, clinical trial sites and investigators, to conduct or to assist us in conducting clinical trials for our product candidates. We have limited experience in designing, initiating, conducting and monitoring the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates. Our License Agreement with Merck provides that Merck is responsible for the conduct of clinical trials of ridaforolimus in multiple cancer indications. As such, we are heavily dependent on Merck’s decisions to initiate and continue clinical development of ridaforolimus and, for indications it chooses to pursue, its ability to successfully initiate, enroll, conduct and monitor clinical trials. We are also dependent upon the ability of Merck to timely and accurately collect and report to regulatory authorities worldwide the patient data generated in the SUCCEED trial and other clinical trials of ridaforolimus. Merck may not effectively initiate clinical trial sites, recruit and enroll patients, conduct and monitor clinical trials, and to collect and report patient data relating to the SUCCEED trial or other clinical trials of ridaforolimus, either generally or in specific countries. We are conducting Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials of ponatinib in patients with hematologic malignancies. We do not currently have a partner for the development and commercialization of ponatinib, although we have announced that we may seek a partner outside the United States for this product candidate. We are dependent upon our ability and/or the ability of our collaborators, licensees, contract research organizations, clinical trial sites and investigators to successfully design, initiate, conduct and monitor clinical trials of ponatinib, including the ongoing trials. Failure by us or any of these parties to timely and effectively initiate, conduct and monitor our clinical trials could significantly delay or materially impair our ability to complete clinical trials and/or obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates and, consequently, could delay or materially impair our ability to generate milestones, royalties or other revenues from them. We have limited manufacturing experience and are dependent upon the ability of third parties, including Merck, to manufacture our product candidates. Under our License Agreement with Merck, Merck is responsible for providing the active pharmaceutical ingredient used in ridaforolimus drug product and for the formulation of the finished product. Under our agreements with Medinol and ICON, we are responsible for providing the ridaforolimus to be delivered by the stents or medical devices being developed by Medinol and ICON. We have no experience in manufacturing any of our product candidates on a large scale and have contracted and expect to continue to contract with third-party manufacturers, including Merck, to provide material for clinical trials and potential commercial launch, and to assist in the development and optimization of our manufacturing processes and methods. Our ability to conduct clinical trials and commercialize our product candidates will depend on the ability of such third parties to manufacture our product candidates on a large scale at a competitive cost and in accordance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs, and other regulatory requirements. If we are not able to obtain contract manufacturing on commercially reasonable terms, obtain or develop the necessary materials and technologies for manufacturing, or obtain intellectual property rights necessary for manufacturing, or if our contract manufacturers fail to provide us with the quantities and quality of the products we require in a timely manner, we may not be able to conduct or complete clinical trials or commercialize our product candidates, including ridaforolimus. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the materials, technologies and intellectual property necessary to successfully manufacture our product candidates for clinical trials and commercialization. 23 We are dependent upon the ability of our medical device partners to develop, manufacture, test and market stents or other medical devices to deliver ridaforolimus. We have no experience in the development of medical devices and do not intend ourselves to develop stents or other medical devices to deliver ridaforolimus. Instead, we have granted licenses to Medinol and ICON and, under those license agreements, we may grant one additional license, to a medical device company for its use in developing and commercializing such medical devices to reduce blockage of injured vessels following stent-assisted angioplasty. We and our medical device partners have limited experience in designing, conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approval of drug-eluting stents or other combination products that use a medical device to deliver small-molecule drugs to reduce blockage of injured vessels following interventions in which stents are used in conjunction with balloon angioplasty. We are dependent upon the success of Medinol and ICON and any future medical device partner to successfully develop, manufacture and market stents or other medical devices to deliver ridaforolimus. If Medinol or ICON is not successful and/or if we are not able to enter into an agreement with an additional medical device company to develop, manufacture, and market medical devices to deliver ridaforolimus, we will not be able to generate revenues from the marketing of stents or other medical devices that deliver ridaforolimus. While we expect to supply ridaforolimus to our medical device partners and any additional partner, we will be otherwise dependent upon them to develop and commercialize stents or other medical devices to deliver ridaforolimus. Such medical device partners have varying degrees of scientific, technical, medical and regulatory experience and resources to, directly or through third parties, develop, manufacture, test or market stents or other medical devices to deliver ridaforolimus. Their ability to conduct clinical trials and commercialize such medical devices will be dependent on both the safety profile of their medical devices and ridaforolimus, as well as their ability to manufacture and supply medical devices for clinical trials and marketing purposes and our ability to manufacture and supply ridaforolimus, either directly or through third parties, at a competitive cost and in accordance with cGMPs and other regulatory requirements. Although, under our License Agreement with Merck, Merck is responsible for the supply of ridaforolimus as a finished drug product for potential indications covered by the license, we depend upon Merck and third-party manufacturers or collaborative partners for the production of ridaforolimus for clinical trials to be conducted by our medical device partners, and we intend to rely on Merck or third-party manufacturers to produce ridaforolimus on a commercial scale for these medical devices, if any medical device partner receives regulatory approval. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers and their potential inability to meet our supply commitments to one or more of our partners could adversely impact the ability of our partners to commercialize stents or other medical devices to deliver ridaforolimus. 24 We may be reliant on a medical device manufacturer to develop and commercialize a diagnostic test in order to allow us to market ponatinib to a specific patient population. We are conducting a pivotal Phase 2 clinical trial of ponatinib in patients with resistant or intolerant CML and Ph+ ALL. Patients who are resistant or intolerant to certain other currently marketed drugs or those who have the T315I mutation of the BCR-ABL protein are being enrolled in this trial. In order to be able to obtain regulatory approval to market ponatinib specifically with an indication for patients with the T315I mutation, we expect that the FDA will require there to be an FDA-approved diagnostic test that identifies patients who have this T315I mutation. Such an approved diagnostic test does not currently exist, and we plan to collaborate with one or more companies to provide for the development and commercialization of such a companion diagnostic test. If we are not successful in establishing a collaboration with a company for the development and commercialization of a companion diagnostic test for the T315I mutation, or if a company with whom we establish a collaboration is unsuccessful in its efforts to develop and gain regulatory approval for such a test, we may not be able to market ponatinib specifically for patients who have the T315I mutation. If any collaborator or licensee terminates its agreement with us or fails to perform its obligations under its agreement with us, or fails to comply with applicable law, the development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed or terminated. Our use of collaborators and licensees for development of our product candidates means that our business would be adversely affected if any collaborator or licensee terminates its agreement with us or fails to perform its obligations under that agreement or under applicable law. Our current or future collaborations and licenses may not result in product candidates that are scientifically or commercially successful or result in the development or commercialization of any product candidates. For example, if our License Agreement with Merck does not result in the development or approval of any product candidates, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, disputes may arise in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology or product candidates developed with collaborators and licensees, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to develop and commercialize any affected product candidate. Our current collaboration and license agreements allow, and we expect that any future collaborations and licenses will allow, either party to terminate the agreement for specified material breaches by the other party. If a collaborator or licensee terminates its agreement with us, for breach or otherwise, it may be difficult for us to attract new collaborators or licensees and could adversely affect how we are perceived in the business and financial communities. In addition, a collaborator or licensee could determine that it is in its financial interest to: ● pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products, either on its own or jointly with others, that may be competitive with the products on which it is collaborating with us or has licensed from us, which could affect its commitment to us; ● pursue higher-priority programs or change the focus of its development programs, which could affect the collaborator’s or licensee’s commitment to us; or ● if it has marketing rights, choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our product candidates, if any are approved for marketing, than it does for product candidates of its own development. If any of these events occur, the development and commercialization of one or more of our product candidates could be delayed, curtailed or terminated because we may not have sufficient financial resources or capabilities to continue such development and commercialization on our own. 25 Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property We may not be able to protect our intellectual property relating to our research programs, technologies and product candidates. We and our licensors have issued patents and pending patent applications covering research methods useful in drug discovery, new chemical compounds discovered in our drug discovery programs including, among others, ridaforolimus, certain components, configurations and uses of our cell-signaling regulation technologies and products-in-development, methods and materials for manufacturing our products-in-development and other pharmaceutical products and methods and materials for conducting pharmaceutical research. Pending patent applications may not issue as patents and may not issue in all countries in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products or in countries where others develop, manufacture and sell products using our technologies. In addition, patents issued to us or our licensors may be challenged, and they may be subsequently narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. In that event, such patents may not afford meaningful protection for our technologies or product candidates, which would materially impact our ability to develop and market our product candidates and to generate licensing revenues from our patent portfolio. Certain technologies utilized in our research and development programs are already in the public domain. Moreover, a number of our competitors have developed technologies, filed patent applications or obtained patents on technologies, compositions and methods of use that are related to our business and may cover or conflict with our patent applications, technologies or product candidates. Such conflicts could limit the scope of the patents that we may be able to obtain or may result in the denial of our patent applications. If a third party were to obtain intellectual property protection for any of the foregoing, we may be required to challenge such protection, terminate or modify our programs impacted by such protection or obtain licenses from such third parties, which might not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Also, if a third party were to introduce a product into the market which we believe infringes our patents, we may be required to enforce our patent rights or seek to obtain an injunction or other relief, which could be time-consuming and expensive. We anticipate that Merck and our medical device partners will seek to develop and commercialize ridaforolimus and ridaforolimus-eluting stents in a manner that does not infringe third-party patents. However, there can be no assurance that any products that may be marketed by our partners will not be subject to third-party claims. Furthermore, the patents issued to us or our partners covering ridaforolimus and/or medical devices, including stents, may be subject to challenge and may be subsequently narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. Any such event would adversely impact the ability of one or more of our partners to market ridaforolimus or stents or other medical devices to deliver ridaforolimus. We may be unable to develop or commercialize our product candidates if we are unable to obtain or maintain certain licenses on commercial terms or at all. We have entered, and will continue to enter, into agreements with third parties to test compounds, blood and tissue samples, to perform gene expression analysis and to develop biological tests for use with our product candidates, which testing may yield new inventions and discoveries requiring us to obtain licenses in order to exclusively develop or market new products, alone or in combination with our product candidates, or to develop or market our product candidates for new indications. We have also entered into license agreements for some of our technologies. We use third parties to test blood and tissue samples and other biological materials in our clinical programs and to develop biological tests, with respect to which we may be required to obtain licenses or pay royalties or other fees in order to commercialize such tests for use with our product candidates. Manufacturing and/or use of our products may also require licensing biological materials, technologies and intellectual property from third parties. Our inability to obtain any one or more of these licenses, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or to circumvent the need for any such license, could cause significant delays and cost increases and materially affect our ability to develop and commercialize or prevent us from developing and commercializing our product candidates. Obtaining licenses for these discoveries, materials and technologies may require us to make cumulative royalty payments or other payments to several third parties, potentially reducing amounts paid to us or making the cost of our products commercially prohibitive. 26 Some of our licenses obligate us to exercise diligence in pursuing the development of product candidates, to make specified milestone payments and to pay royalties. In some instances, we are responsible for the costs of filing and prosecuting patent applications and actions to enforce our rights against infringers. These licenses generally expire upon the earlier of a fixed term of years after the date of the license or the expiration of the applicable patents, but each license is also terminable by the other party upon default by us of our obligations. Our inability or failure to meet our diligence requirements or make any payments required under these licenses would result in a reversion to the licensor of the rights granted which, with respect to the licenses pursuant to which we have obtained exclusive rights, would materially and adversely affect our ability to develop and market products based on our licensed technologies. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position would be harmed. In addition to seeking patents for some of our technology and products, we also rely on trade secrets, including unpatented know-how, technology, and other proprietary information, to maintain our competitive position. We seek to protect these trade secrets, in part, by entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties that have access to them, such as our employees, corporate collaborators, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers, contract manufacturers, consultants, advisors and other third parties. We also have entered into confidentiality and invention or patent assignment agreements with all of our employees and our consultants. Any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose our proprietary information, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, some courts inside and outside the United States are less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets. If any of our trade secrets were to be lawfully obtained or independently developed by a competitor, we would have no right to prevent them from using that technology or information to compete with us. If any our trade secrets were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our competitive position would be harmed. Risks Related to Our Employees and Growth The loss of key members of our scientific and management staff could delay and may prevent the achievement of our research, development and business objectives. Our performance as a specialized scientific business is substantially dependent on our key officers and members of our scientific staff responsible for areas such as drug development, clinical trials, regulatory affairs, drug discovery, manufacturing, marketing, business development and intellectual property protection and licensing. We also are dependent upon certain of our scientific advisors to assist in formulating our research and development strategy. While we have entered into employment agreements with all of our executive officers, these officers may terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of, and failure to promptly replace, any member of our management team could significantly delay and may prevent the achievement of our research, development and business objectives. We expect to expand our development, regulatory and sales and marketing capabilities, and as a result, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could disrupt our operations. We expect to experience significant growth in the number of our employees and the scope of our operations, particularly in the areas of drug development, regulatory affairs and sales and marketing. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, expand our facilities and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. As a result of our limited financial resources and the inexperience of our management team in managing a company with such anticipated growth, we may not be able to manage the expansion of our operations effectively or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. The physical expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources from the running of our business. Any inability to manage growth could delay the implementation of our business plans or disrupt our operations. Depending on the rate at which we expand our workforce, we may need to seek alternative space for our operations in the future, which may not be available to us on reasonable terms. 27 Risks Relating to Regulatory Approvals, Pricing and Reimbursement We have limited experience in conducting clinical trials, which may cause delays in commencing and completing clinical trials of our product candidates. Clinical trials must meet applicable FDA and foreign regulatory requirements. We have limited experience in designing, conducting and managing the preclinical studies and clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates in any country and no experience in conducting and managing post-approval studies of any products. We or our collaborative partners may encounter problems in clinical trials that may cause us or the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies to delay, suspend or terminate our clinical trials at any phase. These problems could include the possibility that we may not be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of cGMP materials for use in our clinical trials, conduct clinical trials at our preferred sites, enroll a sufficient number of patients for our clinical trials at one or more sites, or begin or successfully complete clinical trials in a timely fashion, if at all. Furthermore, we, our partners, the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may suspend clinical trials of our product candidates at any time if we or they believe the subjects participating in the trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks, whether as a result of adverse events occurring in our trials or otherwise, or if we or they find deficiencies in the clinical trial process or conduct of the investigation. If clinical trials of any of our product candidates fail, we or our partners will not be able to market the product candidate which is the subject of the failed clinical trials. The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies could also require additional clinical trials before or after granting of marketing approval for any products, which would result in increased costs and significant delays in the development and commercialization of such products and could result in the withdrawal of such products from the market after obtaining marketing approval. Our failure, or the failure of our partners, to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a product candidate in clinical development could delay or prevent obtaining marketing approval of the product candidate and, after obtaining marketing approval, data from post-approval studies could result in the product being withdrawn from the market, either of which would likely have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to obtain government regulatory approval to market our product candidates. To date, neither we nor our partners have submitted a marketing application for any of our product candidates to the FDA or any foreign regulatory agency, and none of our product candidates has been approved for commercialization in any country. Prior to commercialization, each product candidate will be subject to an extensive and lengthy governmental regulatory approval process in the United States and in other countries. We or our partners may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for any product candidates, or even if approval is obtained, the labeling for such products may place restrictions on their use that could materially impact the marketability and profitability of the product subject to such restrictions. Satisfaction of these regulatory requirements, which includes satisfying the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities that the product is both safe and effective for its intended uses, typically takes several years or more depending upon the type, complexity, novelty and safety profile of the product and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Uncertainty with respect to meeting the regulatory requirements governing our product candidates may result in excessive costs or extensive delays in the regulatory approval process, adding to the already lengthy review process. If regulatory approval of a product is granted, such approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is proven safe and effective, as demonstrated by clinical trials, and may not include all of the indications necessary to successfully market the product. Even though we have obtained orphan drug designation from the FDA and EMEA for ridaforolimus in bone and soft-tissue sarcomas and for ponatinib in certain indications, the designation-related marketing exclusivity periods may be challenged by others or may prove to be of no practical benefit. In addition, even though we have reached agreement on a Special Protocol Assessment, or SPA, with the FDA with respect to our SUCCEED Phase 3 trial of ridaforolimus for metastatic sarcoma, the FDA is not obligated to approve ridaforolimus as a result of the SPA, even though the clinical outcome of the SUCCEED trial is positive. Therefore, we cannot provide assurance that positive results in the SUCCEED trial will be sufficient for FDA approval of ridaforolimus. 28 We will not be able to sell our product candidates if we, Merck or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with FDA manufacturing and quality requirements. Under our License Agreement with Merck, Merck is responsible for providing the active pharmaceutical ingredient used in ridaforolimus drug product, and for the formulation of the finished drug product. Under our agreements with Medinol and ICON, we are responsible for providing the ridaforolimus to be delivered by the stents or other medical devices being developed by Medinol and ICON. Before approving any of our product candidates, the FDA will inspect the facility or facilities at which the drug product is manufactured and will not approve the drug candidate unless it is satisfied with our or our third-party manufacturer’s compliance with manufacturing and quality requirements. The manufacturing of our product candidates must comply with cGMP requirements of the FDA and similar requirements of regulatory agencies in other countries. These requirements govern, among other things, quality control and documentation procedures. We, Merck or any third-party manufacturer of product candidates, may not be able to comply with these requirements, which would prevent us from obtaining approval for or selling such products. Material changes to the manufacturing processes of products after approvals have been granted are also subject to review and approval by the FDA or other regulatory agencies. Following approval, such facilities are subject to continuing FDA and foreign regulatory inspections and failure to comply with cGMPs or similar regulations can result in regulatory action up to and including cessation of shipment of product. Even if we or our partners bring products to market, we or they may be unable to effectively price the products or obtain adequate reimbursement for sales of the products, which would prevent the products from becoming profitable. If we or our partners succeed in bringing any product candidates to the market, they may not be considered cost-effective, and coverage and adequate payments may not be available or may not be sufficient to allow us to sell such products on a competitive basis. In both the United States and elsewhere, sales of medical products and the availability or acceptance of treatments are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors, such as health maintenance organizations and other commercial insurance plans and governmental programs such as Medicare. Third-party payors, including Medicare, are increasingly challenging the prices charged for pharmaceutical products and medical procedures. Healthcare policy changes may have a material adverse effect on us. Our business may be affected by the efforts of government and third-party payors to contain or reduce the cost of health care through various means. For example, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the Affordable Care Act or the ACA), enacted in March 2010, substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry. With regard to pharmaceutical products, among other things, ACA is expected to expand and increase industry rebates for drugs covered under Medicaid programs and make changes to the coverage requirements under the Medicare D program. ACA is currently being challenged in the courts and there are also congressional efforts to repeal ACA. This adds to the uncertainty of the legislative changes enacted as part of ACA, and we cannot predict the impact of ACA or any other legislative or regulatory proposals will have on our business. 29 Each of our product candidates will remain subject to ongoing regulatory review even if it receives marketing approval. If we or our collaborators or contractors fail to comply with continuing regulations, we or they may be subject to enforcement action that could adversely affect us. We and our collaborators and contractors will continue to be subject to pervasive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory authorities even after our product candidates become approved products. We and our collaborators and contractors will continue to be subject to FDA requirements governing among other things the manufacture, packaging, sale, promotion adverse event reporting, storage and recordkeeping of our approved products. The Commissioner of the FDA, who was appointed in calendar year 2009, has put FDA-regulated entities on notice that they should expect to see more enforcement actions in all areas regulated by the FDA. Although we have not received any notice that we are the subject of any such enforcement action, it is possible that we may be in the future and that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We or any applicable collaborator of ours may be slow to adapt, or may never adapt, to changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new regulatory requirements. If we or any applicable collaborator of ours fails to comply with the requirements of the FDA and other applicable U.S. or foreign governmental or regulatory authorities or previously unknown problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes are discovered, we or the collaborator could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including restrictions on the products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes; warning letters; civil or criminal penalties; fines; injunctions; product seizures or detentions; import bans; voluntary or mandatory product recalls and publicity requirements; suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; total or partial suspension of production; and refusal to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Results of our operations, general market conditions for biotechnology stocks and other factors could result in a sudden change in the value of our stock. As a biopharmaceutical company with no products currently on the market, we continue to experience significant volatility in the price of our common stock. In 2010, our stock price ranged from a high of $5.44 to a low of $2.06. Some of the many factors that contribute to such volatility include: ● announcements regarding results and timing of preclinical studies and clinical trials for our product candidates, including the Phase 3 SUCCEED trial for ridaforolimus being conducted by Merck and our pivotal Phase 2 PACE trial for ponatinib; ● the results and timing of efforts by Merck and our medical device partners or any future partners to develop ridaforolimus or any other product candidates that we license; ● the timing of our receipt of, or our failure to receive, future milestones under our License Agreement with Merck; ● announcements regarding existing collaborations or new collaborations or our failure to enter into collaborations; ● evidence of the safety or efficacy of our product candidates; ● decisions by regulatory agencies that impact or may impact our product candidates; ● announcements regarding product developments or regulatory approvals obtained by companies developing competing products; ● our funding resources and requirements, including announcements of new equity or debt financings; ● announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic product candidates; ● developments relating to intellectual property rights, including licensing, litigation and governmental regulation; ● healthcare or cost-containment legislation and public policy pronouncements; ● sales of our common stock by us, our insiders or our other stockholders; ● market conditions for biopharmaceutical stocks in general; and ● general economic and market conditions. 30 The stock markets, and the markets for biotechnology stocks in particular, have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Investors may not be able to sell when they desire due to insufficient buyer demand and may realize less than, or lose all of, their investment. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law, provisions in our charter and bylaws and our stockholders’ rights plan, or poison pill, could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult. Because we are a Delaware corporation, the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to stockholders. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, which prohibits us from engaging in certain business combinations, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws, each as currently in effect, also contain certain provisions that may make a third-party acquisition of us difficult, including: ● a classified board of directors, with three classes of directors each serving a staggered three-year term, such that not all members of the board of directors may be elected at one time; ● the authorized number of directors may be changed only by resolution of our board of directors; ● the ability of the board of directors to issue preferred stock that could dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer to prevent an acquisition that is not approved by our board of directors; ● establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations to our board of directors or for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; and ● the inability of our stockholders to call a special meeting. These provisions, as well as Section 203, may discourage certain types of transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the current market price, and may limit the ability of our stockholders to approve transactions that they think may be in their best interests. 31 ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 