ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described below are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may be unable to compete successfully in the highly competitive beverage category. The markets for our products are extremely competitive. In comparison to the major national brand beverage manufacturers, we are a relatively small participant in the industry. We face competition from the national brand beverage manufacturers in all of our markets, both from other retailer brand beverage manufacturers and from other contract beverage manufacturers. If our competitors reduce their selling prices, increase the frequency of their promotional activities in our core market or enter into the production of private-label products or expand their contract manufacturing efforts, if our customers do not allocate adequate shelf space for the beverages we supply, we could experience a decline in our volumes, be forced to reduce pricing, forgo price increases required to offset increased costs of raw materials and fuel, increase capital and other expenditures, or lose market share, any of which could adversely affect our profitability. We may not be able to respond successfully to consumer trends related to our products. Consumer trends with respect to the products we sell are subject to change. Consumers are seeking increased variety in their beverages, and there is a growing interest among consumers, public health officials and government officials regarding the ingredients in our products, the attributes of those ingredients and health and wellness issues generally. In addition, some researchers, health advocates and dietary guidelines are encouraging consumers to reduce consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages, including those sweetened with HFCS or other nutritive sweeteners. As a result, consumer demand has declined for full-calorie CSDs and consumer demand has increased for products associated with health and wellness, such as reduced-calorie CSDs, water, enhanced water, teas and certain other non-carbonated beverages, including juices. Consumer preferences may change due to a variety of other factors, including the aging of the general population, changes in social trends, the real or perceived impact that the manufacturing of our products has on the environment, changes in consumer demographics, changes in travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns, negative publicity resulting from regulatory action or litigation against companies in the industry, or a downturn in economic conditions. Any of these changes may reduce consumers’ demand for our products. There can be no assurance that we can develop or be a “fast follower” of innovative products that respond to consumer trends. Our failure to develop innovative products could put us at a competitive disadvantage in the marketplace and our business and financial results could be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Because a small number of customers account for a significant percentage of our sales, the loss of or reduction in sales to any significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A significant portion of our revenue is concentrated in a small number of customers. Our customers include many large national and regional grocery, mass-merchandise, drugstore, wholesale and convenience store chains in our core markets of North America, U.K. and Mexico, as well as customers for whom we manufacture beverages on a contract basis. Sales to Walmart, our top customer in 2011, 2010 and 2009 accounted for 31.6%, 31.0% and 33.5%, respectively, of our total revenue. Sales to our top ten customers in 2011, 2010 and 2009 accounted for 55.1%, 55.4% and 60.0%, respectively, of our total revenue. We expect that sales of our products to a limited number of customers will continue to account for a high percentage of our revenue for the foreseeable future. On January 27, 2009, we received written notice from Walmart stating that Walmart was exercising its right to terminate, without cause, our Exclusive U.S. Supply Contract, effective on January 28, 2012. Pursuant to the terms of the Exclusive U.S. Supply Contract, we were the exclusive supplier to Walmart of retailer brand CSDs in the United States. The termination provision of the Exclusive U.S. Supply Contract provides for exclusivity to be phased out over a period of three years following notice of termination (the “Notice Period”). Accordingly, we had the exclusive right to supply at least two-thirds of Walmart’s total CSD volume in the United States during the first 12 months of the Notice Period, and we had the exclusive right to supply at least one-third of Walmart’s total CSD volume in the U.S. during the second 12 months of the Notice Period. Notwithstanding the termination of the Exclusive U.S. Supply Contract, we continue to supply Walmart and its affiliated companies, under annual non-exclusive supply agreements, with a variety of products in the United States, Canada, U.K. and Mexico, including CSDs, clear, still and sparkling flavored waters, juice, juice-based products, bottled water, energy drinks and ready-to-drink teas. The loss of Walmart or any significant customer, or customers that in the aggregate represent a significant portion of our revenue, or a material reduction in the amount of business we undertake with any such customer or customers, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows. Furthermore, we could be adversely affected if Walmart or any significant customer reacts unfavorably to any pricing of our products or decides to de-emphasize or reduce their product offerings in the categories with which we supply them. At December 31, 2011, we had $248.4 million of customer relationships recorded as an intangible asset. The permanent loss of any customer included in the intangible asset would result in impairment in the value of the intangible asset or accelerated amortization and could lead to an impairment of fixed assets that were used to service that client. Our ingredients, packaging supplies and other costs are subject to price increases and we may be unable to effectively pass rising costs on to our customers. We bear the risk of changes in prices on the ingredient and packaging in our products. The majority of our ingredient and packaging supply contracts allow our suppliers to alter the prices they charge us based on changes in the costs of the underlying commodities that are used to produce them. Aluminum for cans and ends, resin for PET bottles, preforms and caps, corn for HFCS, fruit and fruit concentrates are examples of these underlying commodities. In addition, the contracts for certain of our ingredient and packaging materials permit our suppliers to increase the costs they charge us based on increases in their cost of converting those underlying commodities into the materials that we purchase. In certain cases those increases are subject to negotiated limits and, in other cases, they are not. These changes in the prices that we pay for ingredient and packaging materials occur at times that vary by product and supplier, and are principally on a monthly, quarterly or annual basis. We are at risk with respect to fluctuating aluminum prices. In 2011, we had fixed price commitments for a majority of our forecasted aluminum requirements for 2011, and entered into fixed price commitments for over half of our aluminum requirements for 2012 and a portion of our requirements for 2013. Because PET resin is not a traded commodity, no fixed price mechanism has been implemented, and we are accordingly also at risk with 11 Table of Contents respect to changes in PET prices. Corn, and thus HFCS, has a history of volatile price changes. In 2011, we entered into fixed price commitments for all our HFCS requirements for 2011 and 2012. Fruit and fruit concentrate prices have been, and we expect them to continue to be, subject to significant volatility. While they are available from numerous independent suppliers, these raw materials are subject to fluctuations in price attributable to, among other things, changes in crop size and federal and state agricultural programs. In 2011, we had fixed price commitments for a majority of our fruit concentrate and fruit requirements for 2011 and have entered into fixed price commitments for a portion of our fruit concentrate and fruit requirements for 2012. If the cost of commodities for which we have entered into fixed price commitments decreases, we will not be able to take advantage of such decreased costs. Accordingly, we bear the risk of fluctuations in the costs of these ingredient and packaging materials, including the underlying costs of the commodities used to manufacture them and, to some extent, the costs of converting those commodities into the materials we purchase. We currently do not use derivatives to manage this risk. If the cost of these ingredients or packaging materials increases, we may be unable to pass these costs along to our customers through adjustments to the prices we charge. If we cannot pass on these increases to our customers on a timely basis, they could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we are able to pass these costs on to our customers through price increases, the impact those increased prices could have on our volumes is uncertain. Our beverage and concentrate production facilities use a significant amount of electricity, natural gas and other energy sources to operate. Fluctuations in the price of fuel and other energy sources for which we have not locked in long-term pricing commitments or arrangements would affect our operating costs, which could impact our profitability. If we fail to manage our operations successfully, our business and financial results may be materially and adversely affected. In recent years, we have grown our business and beverage offerings primarily through the acquisition of other companies, development of new product lines and growth with key customers. We believe that opportunities exist to increase sales of beverages in our markets by leveraging existing customer relationships, obtaining new customers, exploring new channels of distribution, introducing new products or identifying appropriate acquisition or strategic alliance candidates. The success of this strategy with respect to acquisitions depends on our ability to manage and integrate acquisitions and alliances into our existing business. Furthermore, the businesses or product lines that we acquire or align with may not be integrated successfully into our business or prove profitable. In addition to the foregoing factors, our ability to expand our business in foreign countries is also dependent on, and may be limited by, our ability to comply with the laws of the various jurisdictions in which we may operate, as well as changes in local government regulations and policies in such jurisdictions. If we fail to manage the geographic allocation of production capacity surrounding customer demand in North America, we may lose certain customer product volume or have to utilize co-packers to fulfill our customer capacity obligations, either of which could negatively impact our financial results. Our geographic diversity subjects us to the risk of currency fluctuations. We conduct operations in many areas of the world, involving transactions denominated in a variety of currencies. We are subject to currency exchange rate risk to the extent that our costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn revenues. In addition, because our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our results of operations. While we customarily enter into financial transactions to address these risks, there can be no assurance that currency exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, while the use of currency hedging instruments may provide us with protection from adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates, by utilizing these instruments we potentially forego the benefits that might result from favorable fluctuations in currency exchange rates. 12 Table of Contents If we are unable to maintain relationships with our raw material suppliers, we may incur higher supply costs or be unable to deliver products to our customers. In addition to water, the principal raw materials required to produce our products are aluminum cans and ends, PET bottles, preforms and caps, labels, cartons and trays, sweeteners, fruit concentrates and fruit. We rely upon our ongoing relationships with our key suppliers to support our operations. We typically enter into annual or multi-year supply arrangements with our key suppliers, meaning that our suppliers are obligated to continue to supply us with materials for one-year or multi-year periods, at the end of which we must either renegotiate the contracts with those suppliers or find alternative sources for supply. There can be no assurance that we will be able to either renegotiate contracts (with similar or more favorable terms) with these suppliers when they expire or, alternatively, if we are unable to renegotiate contracts with our key suppliers, there can be no assurance that we could replace them. We could also incur higher ingredient and packaging supply costs in renegotiating contracts with existing suppliers or replacing those suppliers, or we could experience temporary disruptions in our ability to deliver products to our customers, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. With respect to some of our key packaging supplies, such as aluminum cans and ends, and some of our key ingredients, such as sweeteners, we have entered into long-term supply agreements, the remaining terms of which range from 12 to 60 months, and therefore we are assured of a supply of those key packaging supplies and ingredients during such terms. CCS supplies aluminum cans and ends under a contract with a multi-year term. The contract provides that CCS will supply our aluminum can and end requirements worldwide, subject to certain exceptions. In addition, the supply of specific ingredient and packaging materials could be adversely affected by many factors, including industry consolidation, energy shortages, governmental controls, labor disputes, natural disasters, transportation interruption, political instability, acts of war or terrorism and other factors. We may not realize the expected benefits of the Cliffstar Acquisition because of integration difficulties and other challenges. The ultimate success of the Cliffstar Acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize all or some of the anticipated benefits from integrating Cliffstar’s business with our existing businesses. The integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming. The difficulties of integrating the operations of Cliffstar’s business include, among others: • failure to implement our business plan for the combined business; • unanticipated issues in integrating manufacturing, logistics, information, communications and other systems; • resolving inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, and compensation structures between Cliffstar’s structure and our structure; • failure to retain key customers and suppliers; • unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations; • failure to retain key employees; • operating risks inherent in Cliffstar’s business and our business; and • unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. We may not be able to maintain the levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that each of Cott and Cliffstar had achieved or might achieve separately. In addition, we may not accomplish the integration of Cliffstar’s business smoothly, successfully or within the anticipated costs or timeframe. If we experience 13 Table of Contents difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the Cliffstar Acquisition may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. We face risks associated with our Asset Purchase Agreement in connection with the Cliffstar Acquisition. As a result of the Cliffstar Acquisition, we assumed substantially all of the liabilities of Cliffstar and its affiliated companies that were not satisfied on or prior to the closing date. Under the Asset Purchase Agreement, the seller provided us with a limited set of representations and warranties. Our sole remedy from the seller for any breach of those representations and warranties is an action for indemnification, which may only be brought in certain circumstances and within certain time periods. Indemnification payments may not exceed $50.0 million. Damages resulting from a breach of a representation or warranty could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We incurred substantial indebtedness in order to finance the Cliffstar Acquisition, which could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business. In connection with the Cliffstar Acquisition, we issued $375.0 million of senior notes that are due on September 1, 2018 (the “2018 Notes”). Additionally, we refinanced our existing asset based lending facility and drew down a substantial amount of indebtedness under that facility in order to fund the Cliffstar Acquisition. As a result, we have substantially more indebtedness than has been the case for us historically. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt obligations and to fund planned capital expenditures depends on our ability to generate cash from our future operations. This, to a certain extent, is subject to financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. In addition, if we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, any of which could impede the implementation of our business strategy, prevent us from entering into transactions that would otherwise benefit our business and/or have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to refinance our indebtedness or take such other actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We have a significant amount of outstanding debt, which could adversely affect our financial health and future cash flows may not be sufficient to meet our obligations. As of December 31, 2011, our total debt was $608.0 million. Our present debt and any future borrowings could have important adverse consequences to us and our investors, including: • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest payments on this debt; • making it more difficult to satisfy debt service and other obligations; • increasing the risk of a future credit ratings downgrade of our debt, which would increase future debt costs; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • reducing the cash flow available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow our business; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that may not be as highly leveraged; and • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds as needed or take advantage of business opportunities, such as acquisitions, as they arise, pay cash dividends or repurchase common stock. 14 Table of Contents To the extent we become more leveraged, the risks described above would increase. In addition, our actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we fail to generate sufficient cash flow from future operations to meet our debt service obligations, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our debt on attractive terms, commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our future operating performance and our ability to service or refinance our debt will be subject to future economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our asset based lending (“ABL”) facility, the indenture governing the 2017 Notes, and the indenture governing the 2018 Notes each contain various covenants limiting the discretion of our management in operating our business, which could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some corporate actions. Our ABL facility, the indenture governing the $215.0 million of senior notes that are due on November 15, 2017 (the “2017 Notes”), and the indenture governing the 2018 Notes each impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions will limit or restrict, among other things, our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: • incur additional indebtedness; • make restricted payments (including paying dividends on, redeeming, repurchasing or retiring our capital stock); • make investments; • create liens; • sell assets; • enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends, make loans or transfer assets to us; • engage in transactions with affiliates; and • consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. These covenants are subject to important exceptions and qualifications. In addition, our ABL facility also requires us, under certain circumstances, to maintain compliance with certain financial covenants as described in the “Covenant Compliance” section on page 49. Our ability to comply with this covenant may be affected by events beyond our control, including those described in this “Risk Factors” section. A breach of any of the covenants contained in our ABL facility, including our inability to comply with the financial covenant, could result in an event of default, which would allow the lenders under our ABL facility to declare all borrowings outstanding to be due and payable, which would in turn trigger an event of default under the indenture governing the 2017 Notes and the indenture governing the 2018 Notes and, potentially, our other debt. At maturity or in the event of an acceleration of payment obligations, we would likely be unable to pay our outstanding debt with our cash and cash equivalents then on hand. We would, therefore, be required to seek alternative sources of funding, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, terms as favorable as our current agreements or at all, or face bankruptcy. If we are unable to refinance our debt or find alternative means of financing our operations, we may be required to curtail our operations or take other actions that are inconsistent with our current business practices or strategy. For additional information about our ABL facility, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 15 Table of Contents A portion of our debt may be variable rate debt, and changes in interest rates could adversely affect us by causing us to incur higher interest costs with respect to such variable rate debt. Our ABL facility subjects us to interest rate risk. The rate at which we pay interest on amounts borrowed under such facility fluctuates with changes in interest rates and our debt leverage. Accordingly, with respect to any amounts from time to time outstanding under our ABL facility, we are and will be exposed to changes in interest rates. If we are unable to adequately manage our debt structure in response to changes in the market, our interest expense could increase, which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2011 we had no variable rate debt. Our financial results may be negatively impacted by global financial events. In recent years, global financial events have resulted in the consolidation, failure or near failure of a number of institutions in the banking, insurance and investment banking industries and have substantially reduced the ability of companies to obtain financing. These events also adversely affected the financial markets. These events could continue to have a number of different effects on our business, including: • a reduction in consumer spending, which could result in a reduction in our sales volume; • a negative impact on the ability of our customers to timely pay their obligations to us or our vendors to timely supply materials, thus reducing our cash flow; • an increase in counterparty risk; • an increased likelihood that one or more members of our banking syndicate may be unable to honor its commitments under our ABL facility; and • restricted access to capital markets that may limit our ability to take advantage of business opportunities, such as acquisitions. Other events or conditions may arise or persist directly or indirectly from the global financial events that could negatively impact our business. We may not fully realize the expected cost savings and/or operating efficiencies from our restructuring activities. During the last six years we have implemented, and may in the future implement, restructuring activities to support the implementation of key strategic initiatives designed to achieve long-term sustainable growth. These activities are intended to maximize our operating effectiveness and efficiency and to reduce our costs. We cannot be assured that we will achieve or sustain the targeted benefits under these programs or that the benefits, even if achieved, will be adequate to meet our long-term growth expectations. In addition, the implementation of key elements of these activities, such as employee job reductions and plant closures, may have an adverse impact on our business, particularly in the near-term. Substantial disruption to production at our beverage concentrates or other beverage production facilities could occur. A disruption in production at our beverage concentrates production facility, which manufactures almost all of our concentrates, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, a disruption could occur at any of our other facilities or those of our suppliers, bottlers or distributors. The disruption could occur for many reasons, including fire, natural disasters, weather, manufacturing problems, disease, strikes, transportation interruption, government regulation or terrorism. Alternative facilities with sufficient capacity or capabilities may not be available, may cost substantially more or may take a significant time to start production, each of which could negatively affect our business and financial performance. 16 Table of Contents Our success depends, in part, on our intellectual property, which we may be unable to protect. We possess certain intellectual property that is important to our business. This intellectual property includes trade secrets, in the form of the concentrate formulas for most of the beverages that we produce, and trademarks for the names of the beverages that we sell. While we own certain of the trademarks used to identify our beverages, other trademarks are used through licenses from third parties or by permission from our customers. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. To protect this intellectual property, we rely principally on registration of trademarks, contractual responsibilities and restrictions in agreements (such as indemnification, nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements) with employees, consultants and customers, and on common law and statutory protections afforded to trademarks, trade secrets and proprietary “know-how.” In addition, we vigorously protect our intellectual property against infringements using any and all legal remedies available. Notwithstanding our efforts, we may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property for a number of reasons, including: • our competitors may independently develop intellectual property that is similar to or better than ours; • employees, consultants or customers may not abide by their contractual agreements and the cost of enforcing those agreements may be prohibitive, or those agreements may prove to be unenforceable or more limited than anticipated; • foreign intellectual property laws may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights; and • our intellectual property rights may be successfully challenged, invalidated or circumvented. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our competitive position would weaken and we could face significant expense to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. At December 31, 2011, we had $45.0 million of rights and $5.9 million of trademarks recorded as intangible assets. Occasionally, third parties may assert that we are, or may be, infringing on or misappropriating their intellectual property rights. In these cases, we intend to defend against claims or negotiate licenses when we consider these actions appropriate. Intellectual property cases are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. If we become involved in this type of litigation, it could consume significant resources and divert our attention from business operations. If we are found to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we could incur significant damages, be enjoined from continuing to manufacture, market or use the affected product, or be required to obtain a license to continue manufacturing or using the affected product. A license could be very expensive to obtain or may not be available at all. Similarly, changing products or processes to avoid infringing the rights of others may be costly or impracticable. Our products may not meet health and safety standards or could become contaminated and we could be liable for injury, illness or death caused by consumption of our products. We have adopted various quality, environmental, health and safety standards. However, our products may still not meet these standards or could otherwise become contaminated. A failure to meet these standards or contamination could occur in our operations or those of our bottlers, distributors or suppliers. This could result in expensive production interruptions, recalls and liability claims. We may be liable to our customers if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death. Moreover, negative publicity could be generated from false, unfounded or nominal liability claims or limited recalls. Any of these failures or occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and damage our reputation. We are party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings. We evaluate these claims and proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. We may establish a reserve as appropriate based upon assessments and estimates in accordance with our accounting 17 Table of Contents policies. We base our assessments, estimates and disclosures on the information available to us at the time and rely on legal and management judgment. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from assessments and estimates. Actual settlements, judgments or resolutions of these claims or proceedings may negatively affect our business and financial performance. For more information, see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” Changes in the legal and regulatory environment in the jurisdictions in which we operate could increase our costs or reduce our revenues, adversely affect demand for our products or result in litigation. As a producer of beverages, we must comply with various federal, state, provincial, local and foreign laws relating to production, packaging, quality, labeling and distribution, including, in the United States, those of the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Nutrition Labeling and Education Act and California Proposition 65. We are also subject to various federal, state, provincial, local and foreign environmental laws and workplace regulations. These laws and regulations include, in the United States, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Unfair Labor Standards Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Act, laws governing equal employment opportunity, customs and foreign trade laws and regulations, laws relating to the maintenance of fuel storage tanks, laws relating to water consumption and treatment, and various other federal statutes and regulations. These laws and regulations may change as a result of political, economic, or social events. Such regulatory changes may include changes in food and drug laws, laws related to advertising, accounting standards, taxation requirements, competition laws and environmental laws, including laws relating to the regulation of water rights and treatment. Changes in laws, regulations or government policy and related interpretations may alter the environment in which we do business, which may impact our results or increase our costs or liabilities. A number of states have passed laws setting forth warning or labeling requirements relating to products made for human consumption. For example, the California law known as Proposition 65 requires that a specific warning appear on any product sold in California containing a substance listed by that state as having been found to cause cancer or reproductive toxicity. This law, and others like it, expose all food and beverage producers to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products. The detection of even a trace amount of a listed substance can subject an affected product to the requirement of a warning label, although products containing listed substances that occur naturally or that are contributed to such products solely by a municipal water supply are generally exempt from the warning requirement. From time to time over the past several years, certain of our customers have received notices alleging that the labeling requirements of the relevant state regulation would apply to products manufactured by us and sold by them. There can be no assurance that we will not be adversely affected by actions against our customers or us relating to Proposition 65 or similar “failure to warn” laws: were any such claim to be pursued or succeed, we might in some cases be required to indemnify our customers for damages, and our products might be required to bear warning labels in order to be sold in certain states. Any negative media attention, adverse publicity or action arising from allegations of violations could adversely impact consumer perceptions of our products and harm our business. Proposed taxes on CSDs and other drinks could have an adverse effect on our business. Federal, state, local and foreign governments have considered imposing taxes on soda and other sugary drinks. Any such taxes could negatively impact consumer demand for our products and have an adverse effect on our revenues. We are not in compliance with the requirements of the OEPA and, if the Ontario government seeks to enforce those requirements or implements modifications to them, we could be adversely affected. Certain regulations under the OEPA provide that a minimum percentage of a bottler’s soft drink sales within specified areas in Ontario must be made in refillable containers. The penalty for non-compliance is a fine of $50,000 per day beginning when the first offense occurs and continuing until the first conviction, and then increasing to $100,000 per day for each subsequent conviction. These fines may be increased to equal the amount of monetary 18 Table of Contents benefit acquired by the offender as a result of the commission of the offense. We, and we believe other industry participants, are currently not in compliance with the requirements of the OEPA. We do not expect to be in compliance with these regulations in the foreseeable future. Ontario is not enforcing the OEPA at this time, but if it chose to enforce the OEPA in the future, we could incur fines for non-compliance and the possible prohibition of sales of soft drinks in non-refillable containers in Ontario. We estimate that approximately 3% of our sales would be affected by the possible limitation on sales of soft drinks in non-refillable containers in Ontario if the Ontario Ministry of the Environment initiated an action to enforce the provisions of the OEPA. Adverse weather conditions could affect our supply chain and reduce the demand for our products. Severe weather conditions and natural disasters, such as freezes, frosts, floods, hurricanes, tornados, droughts or earthquakes and crop diseases may affect our facilities and our supply of raw materials such as fruit. If the supply of any of our raw materials is adversely affected by weather conditions, it may result in increased raw material costs and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient supplies from other sources. In addition, the sales of our products are influenced to some extent by weather conditions in the markets in which we operate. Unusually cold or rainy weather during the summer months may reduce the demand for our products and contribute to lower revenues, which could negatively impact our profitability. Global or regional catastrophic events could impact our operations and financial results. Our business can be affected by large-scale terrorist acts, especially those directed against the United States or other major industrialized countries in which we do business, major natural disasters, or widespread outbreaks of infectious diseases. Such events could impair our ability to manage our business, could disrupt our supply of raw materials, and could impact production, transportation and delivery of products. In addition, such events could cause disruption of regional or global economic activity, which can affect consumers’ purchasing power in the affected areas and, therefore, reduce demand for our products. Our success depends in part upon our ability to recruit, retain and prepare succession plans for our CEO, CFO, senior management and key employees. The performance of our CEO, CFO, senior management and other key employees is critical to our success. We plan to continue to invest time and resources in developing our senior management and key employee teams. Our long-term success will depend on our ability to recruit and retain capable senior management and other key employees, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our future operating results and financial condition. Further, if we fail to adequately plan for the succession of our CEO, CFO, senior management and other key employees, our operating results could be adversely affected. Changes in future business conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill, indefinite life intangible assets or other intangible assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and writedowns that would negatively impact our results of operations. As part of our overall strategy, we will, from time to time, make investments in other businesses. These investments are made upon careful target analysis and due diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. These procedures often involve certain assumptions and judgment in determining investment amount or acquisition price. After acquisition or investment, unforeseen issues could arise that adversely affect anticipated returns or that are otherwise not recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. Even after careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary significantly from initial estimates. Goodwill accounted for $129.6 million of our recorded total assets as of December 31, 2011. We evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. The annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment and certain underlying assumptions. Our only intangible asset with an indefinite life relates to the 2001 acquisition of intellectual property from Royal Crown Company, Inc. including the right to manufacture our concentrates, with all related inventions, processes, 19 Table of Contents technologies, technical and manufacturing information, know-how and the use of the Royal Crown brand outside of North America and Mexico (the “Rights”). This asset, which has a net book value of $45.0 million, is more fully described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As of December 31, 2011, other intangible assets were $296.1 million, which consisted principally of $248.4 million of customer relationships that arose from acquisitions, $15.7 million of financing costs, $10.7 million of information technology assets, and trademarks of $5.9 million. Customer relationships are amortized on a straight-line basis for the period over which we expect to receive economic benefits, which is up to 15 years. We review the estimated useful life of these intangible assets annually, taking into consideration the specific net cash flows related to the intangible asset, unless it is required more frequently due to a triggering event such as the loss of a customer. The permanent loss of any customer included in the intangible asset would result in impairment in the value of the intangible asset or accelerated amortization and could lead to an impairment of fixed assets that were used to service that client. Principally, a decrease in expected reporting segment cash flows, changes in market conditions, loss of key customers and a change in our imputed cost of capital may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill or the Rights. For additional information on accounting policies we have in place for goodwill impairment, see our discussion under “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We may not be able to renew collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms, or we could experience strikes. As of December 31, 2011, 844 of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements in the United States, Canada and Mexico. These agreements typically expire every three to five years at various dates. We may not be able to renew our collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms or at all. This could result in strikes or work stoppages, which could impair our ability to manufacture and distribute our products and result in a substantial loss of sales. The terms of existing or renewed agreements could also significantly increase our costs or negatively affect our ability to increase operational efficiency. We depend on key information systems and third-party service providers. We depend on key information systems to accurately and efficiently transact our business, provide information to management and prepare financial reports. We have typically relied on third-party providers for the majority of our key information systems and business processing services, including hosting our primary data center. In particular, we are in the process of implementing a new SAP software platform to assist us in the management of our business and have also reorganized certain processes within our finance and accounting departments. As a part of the reorganization, we have outsourced certain back office transactional finance processes. Additionally, in connection with the efforts to integrate the Cliffstar business with our operations, we transformed the Company’s information technology function from a nearly 100% outsourced, single vendor relationship to a combination of in-house resources and multi-vendor strategy. If we fail to successfully implement these projects or if the projects do not result in increased operational efficiencies, our operations may be disrupted and our operating expenses could increase, which could adversely affect our financial results. In addition, these systems and services are vulnerable to interruptions or other failures resulting from, among other things, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, software, equipment or telecommunications failures, processing errors, computer viruses, hackers, other security issues or supplier defaults. Security, backup and disaster recovery measures may not be adequate or implemented properly to avoid such disruptions or failures. Any disruption or failure of these systems or services could cause substantial errors, processing inefficiencies, security breaches, inability to use the systems or process transactions, loss of customers or other business disruptions, all of which could negatively affect our business and financial performance. Our stock price may be volatile. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) and Toronto Stock Exchange (“TSX”). The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and could fluctuate 20 Table of Contents substantially in the future, based on a variety of factors, including future announcements covering us or our key customers or competitors, government regulations, litigation, changes in earnings estimates by analysts, fluctuations in quarterly operating results or general conditions in our industry. Furthermore, stock prices for many companies fluctuate widely for reasons that may be unrelated to their operating results. Those fluctuations and general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions or international currency fluctuations and demand for our services, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Failure to maintain our stock exchange listings would adversely affect the trading price and liquidity of our common shares. We have, in the past, received notice of non-compliance with NYSE listing requirements due to our share price trading below $1.00 for periods of time. While we have cured such deficiencies, if we are not able to maintain compliance with the listing requirements of the NYSE and/or TSX, our shares may be subject to removal from listing on the NYSE and/or TSX. Trading in our common shares after a delisting, if any, would likely be conducted in the over-the-counter markets in the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board or the “pink sheets” and could also be subject to additional restrictions. As a consequence of a delisting, our shareholders would find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of, our common shares. In addition, a delisting would make our common shares substantially less attractive as collateral for margin and purpose loans, for investment by financial institutions under their internal policies or state investment laws, or as consideration in future capital raising. We also face other risks that could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, which include: • any requirement to restate financial results in the event of inappropriate application of accounting principles or otherwise; • any event that could damage our reputation; • failure of our processes to prevent and detect unethical conduct of employees; • a significant failure of internal controls over financial reporting; • failure of our prevention and control systems related to employee compliance with internal policies and regulatory requirements; and • failure of corporate governance policies and procedures. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 