ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We face a number of risks and uncertainties, including the following: We may be unable to compete successfully in the highly competitive beverage category. The markets for our products are extremely competitive. In comparison to the major national brand beverage manufacturers, we are a relatively small participant in the industry. We face competition from the national brand beverage manufacturers in all of our markets and from other retailer brand beverage manufacturers in the U.S. and the U.K. If our competitors reduce their selling prices or increase the frequency of their promotional activities in our core markets or if our customers do not allocate adequate shelf space for the beverages we supply, we could experience a decline in our volumes or be forced to reduce pricing or increase capital and other expenditures, any of which could adversely affect our profitability. There is a current trend in the North American beverage market of a significant consumer shift away from carbonated soft drinks. To address these trends and the increasing price competition in the beverage market resulting from them, we have instituted a significant cost reduction program to position our company as the low cost provider of retailer brand soft drinks. We have also developed several new initiatives, such as the U.S. water bottling project, new product initiatives and increasing our hot-fill aseptic capacity. If we are unable to achieve the objectives of these programs, our business may be negatively impacted. Because a small number of customers account for a significant percentage of our sales, the loss of or reduction in sales to any significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A significant portion of our revenue is concentrated in a small number of customers. Our customers include many large national and regional grocery, mass-merchandise, drugstore, wholesale and convenience store chains in our core markets of North America and International. Sales to Wal-Mart, our top customer in 2007 and 2006, accounted for 39% and 38%, respectively of our total revenue, and sales to the top ten customers in 2007 and 2006 were 64% and 60%, respectively in each year. We expect that sales of our products to a limited number of customers will continue to account for a high percentage of our revenue in the foreseeable future. The loss of any significant customer, or customers which in the aggregate represent a significant portion of our revenue, or a material reduction in the amount of business we undertake with such customer or any other customer, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows. Furthermore, we could be adversely affected if a significant customer reacted unfavorably to any pricing of our products or decided to de-emphasize or reduce their product offerings in the categories that we supply them with. At December 29, 2007, we had $105.1 million of customer relationships recorded as an intangible asset. The permanent loss of any customer included in the intangible asset would result in impairment in the value of the intangible asset. 8 Table of Contents If we cannot reach agreement with our largest customer regarding the merchandising of our products, our sales may be materially adversely affected. As previously disclosed, we are currently discussing with Wal-Mart future plans for merchandising of carbonated soft drinks manufactured by us. If the result of these discussions is a reduction in shelf space without adjustments to product placement and mix, product merchandising, and additional promotions it is likely that we would experience a significant decrease in sales volume. Even if such adjustments are put in place, there can be no assurance that a positive effect on sales would materialize. A significant decline in sales volume of carbonated soft drinks sold at Wal-Mart could have a material adverse impact on our sales and gross profit. If we breach the covenants and conditions set out in our senior secured credit facilities or securitization facility, the lenders could terminate the facilities or we would have to renegotiate these agreements and may incur higher fees and interest costs. Our senior secured credit facilities allow for revolving credit borrowings of up to $225.0 million provided we are in compliance with the covenants and conditions of the agreement. Our securitization facility allows for borrowings of up to $75.0 million, depending on eligible receivables balances and calculations of reserves. These facilities contain cross default provisions. If we are in default under one facility, default may be triggered under the other facility. As of December 29, 2007, total borrowings under these facilities were $135.3 million. If we breach the covenants and such non-compliance is not waived by the lenders, or an event occurs that would have a material adverse effect on us, we would be required to renegotiate the agreements and would expect to incur higher fees and interest rates, provided the lenders wish to renegotiate. The lenders could choose to terminate the facilities, in which case we believe we could replace them. We could however incur higher fees and interest expense which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Effective December 20, 2007, we entered into a letter amendment to our senior secured credit facilities. The amendment adjusted the maximum total leverage ratio that is required to be maintained under the credit facilities for the fiscal quarter ending December 29, 2007 from 3.00 to 1.00 to 4.00 to 1.00, and excluded specific asset additions from the calculation of the fixed charge covenant. A conforming change was made to align the covenants in our securitization facility. Our financial covenants are calculated and determined at the end of each quarter. After giving effect to the amendment, we are in compliance with our covenants as of December 29, 2007. We are currently in the process of negotiating a new asset based credit lending facility (“ABL”) that will be secured by substantially all of our assets, including accounts receivable, inventory and property plant and equipment. The proposed new ABL facility would likely be a five year revolving senior secured credit facility of up to $250 million and we are endeavoring to close the facility by the end of the fiscal quarter ending March 29, 2008. We were in compliance with all our amended covenants of our existing senior secured credit facility as of December 29, 2007. We expect that we may not maintain compliance with the total leverage ratio and the fixed charge ratio financial covenant set forth in our senior secured credit facilities at the end of the first quarter of 2008. Absent refinancing this facility through the use of an ABL facility or some other facility, we would endeavor to reach agreement with our lenders on new covenants. There can be no assurance that we will be able to. If we are not able to obtain the ABL financing and our current lenders do not agree to amend our covenants on terms acceptable to us, we would seek to obtain new facilities and we may incur additional fees and higher interest costs. A covenant default in our senior secured credit facilities would permit our senior secured lenders to demand or accelerate payment. A demand or acceleration of payment of our senior secured credit facilities would 9 Table of Contents result in a default of our 8% senior subordinated notes due in 2011 and in such event, the trustee or the holders of at least 25% of principal amount of the then outstanding notes, may declare the notes due and payable. If the notes are declared due and payable, they would be classified as a current liability. The events of default in the 8% senior subordinated notes due in 2011 related to other indebtedness arise only if there is a failure to pay principal, interest or premiums of such other indebtedness after the expiration of any applicable grace period, or there has been an acceleration in payment of such other indebtedness, in each case, in excess of a threshold amount. As at December 29, 2007, these conditions of default did not exist with respect to any other indebtedness. If we are in default and our lenders do not agree to amend the covenant on terms that are acceptable to us, our lenders could terminate our facilities and we would endeavor to replace them. Should our credit facilities and 2011 notes become currently due, we may have to incur additional fees and higher interest costs to replace them. The 8% senior subordinated notes include covenants that limit new borrowings with certain exceptions, including borrowings based on receivables and inventory, unless certain conditions are met. Our ingredients and packaging supplies are subject to price increases and we may be unable to effectively pass rising costs on to our customers. We bear the risk of increasing prices on the ingredients and packaging in our products. The majority of our ingredient and packaging supply contracts allow our suppliers to alter the prices they charge us based on changes in the costs of the underlying commodities that are used to produce them. Aluminum for cans and ends, resin for PET bottles, preforms and caps and high fructose corn syrup for sweeteners are examples of these underlying commodities. In addition, the contracts for certain of our ingredients and packaging materials permit our suppliers to increase the costs they charge us based on increases in their cost of converting those underlying commodities into the materials that we purchase. In certain cases those increases are subject to negotiated limits and, in other cases, they are not. These changes in the prices that we pay for ingredients and packaging materials occur at times that vary by product and supplier, but are principally on a semi-annual and annual basis. In 2006, most aluminum buyers, including ourselves, were protected by price caps keeping the price paid below world prices. However, the cap on aluminum pricing in our contract expired in December 2006, and in 2007 the price paid for aluminum increased significantly to reflect increased worldwide demand. We are at risk with respect to rising aluminum prices. Simultaneously, because PET resin is not a traded commodity, no fixed price mechanism has been implemented, and we are accordingly also at risk with respect to rising PET prices. HFCS has a history of volatile price changes. We typically purchase HFCS requirements for North America under 12 month contracts and have locked in the majority of our requirements into the third quarter of 2008. Accordingly, we bear the risk of fluctuations in the costs of these ingredients and packaging materials, including the underlying costs of the commodities that comprise them and, to some extent, the costs of converting those commodities into finished products. We do not use derivatives to manage this risk. If the cost of these ingredients or packaging materials increases, we may be unable to pass these costs along to our customers through adjustments to the prices we charge. If we cannot pass on these increases to our customers on a timely basis, they could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we are able to pass these costs on to our customers through price increases, the impact those increased prices could have on our volumes is uncertain. If we are unable to maintain relationships with our raw material suppliers, we may incur higher supply costs or be unable to deliver products to our customers. In addition to water, the principal raw materials required to produce our products are PET bottles, caps and preforms, aluminum cans and ends, labels, cartons and trays, concentrates and sweeteners. 10 Table of Contents We typically enter into annual supply arrangements rather than long-term contracts with our suppliers, which means that our suppliers are obligated to continue to supply us with materials for one-year periods, at the end of which we must either renegotiate the contracts with our incumbent suppliers or find alternative sources for supply. With respect to some of our key packaging supplies, such as aluminum cans and ends, and some of our key ingredients, such as artificial sweeteners, we have entered into long-term supply agreements, the terms of which range from 1 to 5 years, and therefore we are assured of a supply of those key packaging supplies and ingredients for a longer period of time. CCS supplies aluminum cans and ends under a contract expiring on December 31, 2011. The contract provides that CCS will supply our entire aluminum can and end requirements worldwide, subject to certain exceptions. This contract included a cap on aluminum prices, which expired in December 2006. In 2007, the price paid for aluminum increased significantly to reflect world pricing. As with our annual supply contracts, we must either renegotiate these long-term supply agreements with the incumbent suppliers when they expire or find alternative sources for supply. We rely upon our ongoing relationships with our key suppliers to support our operations. We believe that we will be able to either renegotiate contracts with these suppliers when they expire or, alternatively, if we are unable to renegotiate contracts with our key suppliers, we believe that we could replace them. We could, however, incur higher ingredient and packaging supply costs in renegotiating contracts with existing suppliers or replacing those suppliers, or we could experience temporary dislocations in our ability to deliver products to our customers, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, the supply of specific ingredients and packaging materials could be adversely affected by economic factors such as industry consolidation, energy shortages, governmental controls, labor disputes, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other factors. We identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to remediate the material weaknesses could negatively impact our business. We concluded that material weaknesses existed in our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 30, 2006 and December 29, 2007. In response to the identified material weaknesses, and with oversight from our Audit Committee, we are focused on improving our internal controls over financial reporting and remedying the identified material weaknesses. We intend to expand and strengthen our accounting and control staff, implement policy and process changes to the financial close and tax processes and reduce segregation of duties deficiencies over access to financial information systems, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so on a timely basis or at all. If we fail to remediate these material weaknesses, or if our internal controls over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act are inadequate in the future, it could negatively impact our business and the price of our common stock. If we fail to manage our expanding operations successfully, our business and financial results may be materially and adversely affected. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to manage our expanding operations, including new acquisitions. In recent years, we have grown our business and beverage offerings primarily through the acquisition of other companies, new product lines and growth with key customers. A part of our strategy is to expand our business in new channels and markets and with new beverage offerings, including through acquisitions and alliances. To succeed with this strategy, we must identify appropriate acquisition or strategic alliance candidates. The success of this strategy also depends on our ability to manage and integrate acquisitions and alliances at a pace consistent with the growth of our business. If attractive acquisition opportunities are not available, we may not continue to acquire businesses and product lines. Furthermore, the businesses or product lines that we acquire or align with may not be integrated successfully into our business or prove profitable. A key element of our strategy is the expansion of our business outside North America. In addition to the foregoing 11 Table of Contents factors, our ability to expand our business in foreign countries is also dependent on, and may be limited by, our ability to comply with the laws of the various jurisdictions in which we may operate, as well as changes in local government regulations and policies in such jurisdictions. We could be liable for injury, illness or death caused by consumption of our products. We may be liable to our customers and/or consumers if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death. We also may be required to recall some of our products if they become contaminated or are damaged or mislabeled. A significant unfavorable product liability judgment or a widespread product recall could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. Our success depends, in part, on our intellectual property, which we may be unable to protect. We possess certain intellectual property that is important to our business. This intellectual property includes trade secrets, in the form of the concentrate formulas for most of the beverages that we produce, and trademarks for the names of the beverages that we sell. While we own certain of the trademarks used to identify our beverages, other trademarks are used through license from third parties or by permission from our retailer brand customers. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. To protect this intellectual property, we rely principally on registration of trademarks, contractual responsibilities and restrictions in agreements (such as indemnification, nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements) with employees, consultants and customers, and on common law and statutory protections afforded to trademarks, trade secrets and proprietary “know-how.” In addition, we vigorously protect our intellectual property against infringements using any and all legal remedies available. Notwithstanding our efforts, we may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property for a number of reasons, including: • our competitors may independently develop intellectual property that is similar to or better than ours; • employees, consultants or customers may not abide by their contractual agreements and the cost of enforcing those agreements may be prohibitive, or those agreements may prove to be unenforceable or more limited than anticipated; • foreign intellectual property laws may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights; and • our intellectual property rights may be successfully challenged, invalidated or circumvented. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, it would weaken our competitive position and we could face significant expense to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. At December 29, 2007, we had $80.4 million of rights and $16.3 million of trademarks recorded as intangible assets. Others may allege that we infringe on their intellectual property rights, which could result in the diversion of attention and resources from our business operations. Occasionally, third parties may assert that we are, or may be, infringing on or misappropriating their intellectual property rights. In these cases, we intend to defend against claims or negotiate licenses when we consider these actions appropriate. Intellectual property cases are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. If we become involved in this type of litigation, it could consume significant resources and divert our attention from business operations. If we are found to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we could incur significant damages, be enjoined from continuing to manufacture, market or use the affected product, or be required to obtain a license to continue manufacturing or using the affected product. A license could be very expensive to obtain or may not be available at all. Similarly, changing products or processes to avoid infringing the rights of others may be costly or impracticable. 12 Table of Contents Our geographic diversity subjects us to the risk of currency fluctuations. We are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, including those between the U.S. dollar and the pound sterling, the euro, the Canadian dollar, the Mexican peso and other currencies. Our operations outside of the U.S. accounted for approximately 40% of our 2007 sales. Accordingly, currency fluctuations in respect of our outstanding non-U.S. dollar denominated net asset balances may affect our reported results and competitive position. A portion of our indebtedness is variable rate debt, and changes in interest rates could adversely affect us by causing us to incur higher interest costs with respect to such variable rate debt. Our credit and securitization facilities subject us to interest rate risk. We have a secured revolving credit facility, under which we borrow from time to time for various purposes, including to fund our day-to-day operations and to finance acquisitions. The maximum amount that we may borrow under these facilities is $225.0 million. We obtain funding under the securitization facility for our day-to-day operations. The maximum amount that we may borrow under this facility is $75.0 million, subject to limitations based on eligible receivables and various reserves required in the facility. The interest rate applicable to our revolving credit facility is variable, meaning that the rate at which we pay interest on amounts borrowed under the facility fluctuates with changes in interest rates and our leverage. The interest rate applicable to our securitization facility is also variable, based on the cost of borrowing of Park Avenue Receivables Company, LLC and certain other financial institutions, as required. Accordingly, with respect to any amounts from time to time outstanding under these facilities, we are exposed to changes in interest rates. We do not currently use derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on terms that are favorable to us or otherwise adequately manage our debt structure in response to changes in the market, our interest expense could increase, which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the legal and regulatory environment in the jurisdictions in which we operate could increase our costs or reduce our revenues. As a producer of beverages, we must comply with various federal, state, provincial, local and foreign laws relating to production, packaging, quality, labeling and distribution, including, in the U.S., those of the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Nutrition Labeling and Education Act and California Proposition 65. We are also subject to various federal, state, provincial, local and foreign environmental laws and workplace regulations. These laws and regulations include, in the U.S., the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Unfair Labor Standards Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Act, laws governing equal employment opportunity, customs and foreign trade laws and regulations, laws relating to the maintenance of fuel storage tanks, laws relating to water consumption and treatment, and various other federal statutes and regulations. These laws and regulations may change as a result of political, economic, or social events. Such regulatory changes may include changes in food and drug laws, laws related to advertising, accounting standards, taxation requirements, competition laws and environmental laws, including laws relating to the regulation of water rights and treatment. Changes in laws, regulations or government policy and related interpretations may alter the environment in which we do business, which may impact our results or increase our costs or liabilities. We are not in compliance with the requirements of the Ontario Environmental Protection Act (“EPA”) and, if the Ontario government seeks to enforce those requirements or implements modifications to them, we could be adversely affected. Certain regulations under the EPA provide that a minimum percentage of a bottler’s soft drink sales within specified areas in Ontario must be made in refillable containers. The penalty for non-compliance is a fine of 13 Table of Contents $50,000 per day beginning when the first offense occurs and continuing until the first conviction, and then increasing to $100,000 per day for each subsequent conviction. These fines may be increased to equal the amount of monetary benefit acquired by the offender as a result of the commission of the offense. We, and we believe other industry participants, are currently not in compliance with the requirements of the EPA. Ontario is not enforcing the EPA at this time, but if it chose to enforce the EPA in the future, we could incur fines for non-compliance and the possible prohibition of sales of soft drinks in non-refillable containers in Ontario. We estimate that approximately 4% of our sales would be affected by the possible limitation on sales of soft drinks in non-refillable containers in Ontario if the Ontario Ministry of the Environment initiated an action to enforce the provisions of the EPA against us. In April 2003, the Ontario Ministry of the Environment proposed to revoke these regulations in favor of new mechanisms under the Ontario Waste Diversion Act to enhance diversion from disposal of carbonated soft drink containers. On December 22, 2003, the Ontario provincial government approved the implementation of the Blue Box Program plan under the Ministry of Environment Waste Diversion Act. The Program requires those parties who are brand owners or licensees of rights to brands which are manufactured, packaged or distributed for sale in Ontario to contribute to the net cost of the Blue Box Program. We generally manufacture, package and distribute products for and on behalf of third party customers. Therefore, we do not believe that we will be responsible for direct costs of the Program. However, our customers may attempt to pass these costs, or a portion of them, on to us. We do not believe that the costs for which we may ultimately be responsible under this Program will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations; however, we cannot guarantee this outcome. The Blue Box Program does not revoke any of the regulations mentioned above under the EPA regarding refillable containers, although the industry anticipates that they will be reversed in the future. Adverse weather conditions could reduce the demand for our products. The sales of our products are influenced to some extent by weather conditions in the markets in which we operate. Unusually cold or rainy weather during the summer months may reduce the demand for our products and contribute to lower revenues, which could negatively impact our profitability. Increase in the cost of energy could affect our profitability. Our beverage and concentrate manufacturing facilities use a significant amount of electricity, natural gas and other energy sources to operate. An increase in the price of fuel and other energy sources would increase our operating costs, which could negatively impact our profitability. Global or regional catastrophic events could impact our operations and financial results. Our business can be affected by large-scale terrorist acts, especially those directed against the United States or other major industrialized countries, major natural disasters, or widespread outbreaks of infectious diseases such as avian influenza or severe acute respiratory. Such events could impair our ability to manage our business around the world, could disrupt our supply of raw materials, and could impact production, transportation and delivery of products. In addition, such events could cause disruption of regional or global economic activity, which can affect consumers’ purchasing power in the affected areas and, therefore, reduce demand for our products. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 