ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS THE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES DESCRIBED BELOW ARE THOSE THAT WE CURRENTLY BELIEVE MAY MATERIALLY AFFECT OUR COMPANY. IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING RISKS ACTUALLY OCCUR, THEY MAY MATERIALLY HARM OUR BUSINESS, OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Risks Relating to the Discovery, Development and Commercialization of Our Product Candidates We depend heavily on the success in the United States of our lead product candidate, ponatinib, which is in a pivotal Phase 2 clinical trial and has not yet been approved by the FDA. If we experience material delays in filing for and obtaining marketing approval for ponatinib, or we are unable to obtain such approval at all, our business will be materially harmed. We believe that a significant portion of the value attributed to our company by investors is based on the commercial potential of ponatinib, which is currently in a pivotal Phase 2 clinical trial. Subject to further patient follow-up and data analysis in this trial, we expect to file for marketing approval of ponatinib in the United States in the third quarter of 2012 and could receive approval as soon as the first quarter of 2013. The FDA has substantial discretion in deciding whether or not ponatinib should be granted approval based on the benefits and risks of ponatinib in the treatment of patients with resistant or intolerant CML and Ph+ ALL. Our ability to file for and obtain approval to market ponatinib in a timely manner will depend on many factors, including the following: · whether or not the final data from the Phase 2 clinical trial of ponatinib is consistent with the preliminary data we reported at the ASH conference in December 2011 and is sufficient to support our filing of an NDA with the FDA; · if we file an NDA, whether or not the FDA determines that the evidence gathered in well-controlled clinical trials, other clinical trials and nonclinical studies of ponatinib demonstrates that ponatinib is safe and effective as a treatment for patients with resistant or intolerant CML and Ph+ ALL; · if we file an NDA, whether or not the FDA is satisfied that the manufacturing facilities, processes and controls for ponatinib are adequate, that the labeling is satisfactory and that plans for post-marketing studies, safety monitoring and risk evaluation and mitigation are sufficient; and · if we file an NDA, the timing and nature of the FDA’s comments and questions regarding the NDA for ponatinib, the scheduling and recommendations of any advisory committee meeting to consider ponatinib, the time required to respond to the FDA’s comments and questions and to obtain the final labeling for ponatinib and any other delays that may be associated with the NDA review process. If we experience material delays in filing for and obtaining marketing approval for ponatinib in the United States, we will not receive product revenues during the delay. Any such delay may materially harm our ability to earn product revenues and generate cash flows. If we do not obtain approval to market ponatinib in the United States, our business will be materially harmed. 17 We have no product candidates that have been approved by the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority, and we and our collaborators may never succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for any products, developing marketable products or generating product revenues. We do not currently have any products on the market and have no product revenues. All of our products are in various stages of clinical development by us or our collaboration partners. Our success is substantially dependent on (1) our ability to successfully complete clinical development and obtain marketing approval for ponatinib, AP26113 and our other product candidates, (2) the ability of Merck to obtain marketing approval for ridaforolimus for metastatic sarcoma and other cancer indications, and (3) the ability of our collaborators, Medinol and ICON, to obtain marketing approval for stents or other medical devices delivering ridaforolimus. As with all scientific endeavors, we face much trial and error, and we and our collaborators may fail at numerous stages along the way, which would inhibit us and our collaborators from successfully developing, obtaining approval for and marketing our drug candidates. Factors which could affect the timing and the ability to obtain regulatory approval and to achieve market acceptance and gain market share for ponatinib, AP26113, ridaforolimus and any other product candidate include, among other factors, product formulation, dose, dosage regimen, the ability to obtain timely and sufficient patient enrollment in clinical trials, the risk of occurrence of adverse side effects in patients participating in clinical trials, the receipt of clinical data that is sufficient to support regulatory approval, the ability to manufacture, directly or indirectly, sufficient quantities of product candidates at commercially reasonable costs, the ability to fund commercial development and to build or access a sales force in the marketplace, the ability to successfully differentiate product candidates from competitive product(s), the ability to educate physicians and build awareness about our product candidates, and the ability to sell, market and distribute, directly or indirectly, such product candidates. Subject to receipt of marketing approval, we do not expect Merck to commence sales of ridaforolimus before the middle of 2012 or for us to commence sales of ponatinib before the beginning of 2013, at the earliest. We and Merck may not receive regulatory approvals within these timeframes, or at all, and ultimately we and our collaborators may not succeed in developing or commercializing any products which will generate revenues for our company. If we and our collaborators are not successful in developing or marketing our product candidates, we will not be profitable. Positive results from earlier stage preclinical or clinical trials may not be replicated in later-stage clinical trials, or regulatory authorities may conclude that clinical data from later-stage clinical trials is not sufficient to support approval. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in earlier-stage development. Accordingly, the results to date from preclinical studies and clinical trials for ponatinib, AP26113 and ridaforolimus may not be predictive of the results to be obtained from ongoing or future clinical trials. In addition, regulatory authorities may conclude that data generated from later-stage clinical trials are not sufficient to support approval. For example, based on clinical data obtained to date, we believe that we will be able to file and obtain regulatory approval for ponatinib on the basis of data from our pivotal Phase 2 PACE trial, and we believe that a similar regulatory approval pathway could exist for AP26113. If positive results from earlier stage trials are not replicated in later-stage trials, or we or our collaborators are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of our product candidates beyond those currently contemplated, we or our collaborators may be delayed in obtaining, or may not be able to obtain, marketing approval for these product candidates, and we may lose the opportunity to generate product revenues or to earn additional development or regulatory milestones or royalties. Furthermore, potential competitive commercial factors may influence future decisions and directions by us or our collaborators on which clinical indications to pursue and when. 18 We may need to develop a diagnostic test in order to allow us to market ponatinib to a specific patient population. We are conducting a pivotal Phase 2 clinical trial of ponatinib in patients with resistant or intolerant CML and Ph+ ALL. Patients who are resistant or intolerant to certain other currently marketed drugs or those who have the T315I mutation have been enrolled in this trial. In order to be able to obtain regulatory approval to market ponatinib specifically with an indication for patients with the T315I mutation, the FDA may require that there be an FDA-approved diagnostic test that identifies patients who have this T315I mutation. Such an approved diagnostic test does not currently exist, and we are collaborating with MolecularMD for the development and commercialization of such a companion diagnostic test. If MolecularMD is unsuccessful in its efforts to develop and gain regulatory approval for such a test, we may not be able to market ponatinib specifically for patients who have the T315I mutation, and our business, results of operations and financial position could be materially harmed. Competing technologies may render some or all of our programs or future products noncompetitive or obsolete. Many well-known pharmaceutical, healthcare and biotechnology companies, academic and research institutions and government agencies, which have substantially greater capital, research and development capabilities and experience than us or our potential collaborators, are presently engaged in one or more of the following activities: · developing products based on cell signaling, cancer biology, and computational chemistry; · conducting research and development programs for the treatment of the various potential disease indications in which we are focused; and · manufacturing, marketing and selling pharmaceutical or medical device products for treatment of diseases in all of the various disease indications in which we or our current or possible future collaborators are focused. For additional information, see the disclosure in this Annual Report under the caption “Business – Competition.” Some of these entities already have competitive products on the market or product candidates in clinical trials or in more advanced preclinical studies than we do. Many of these entities also have substantially greater research, development, manufacturing and marketing resources and experience than us. Competing technologies may render some or all of our programs or future products noncompetitive or obsolete, and we may not be able to make the enhancements to our technology necessary to compete successfully with newly emerging technologies. Competing products on the market or in development may also lead us and our collaborators to revise or cease development of our product candidates in one or more indications for commercial reasons, even where clinical data may be promising. If we are unable to successfully compete in our chosen markets, we will not become profitable. If we are unable to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we may be unable to successfully market and sell any products, even if we are able to obtain regulatory approval. We have no experience in marketing or selling any products or in setting pricing and obtaining adequate third-party reimbursement for drugs. In order to market our product candidates, if they are approved, we will need to build a marketing organization and a specialized sales force, which requires substantial efforts and significant management and financial resources. We have commenced preparations for the potential commercial launch of ponatinib in the United States and Europe, including efforts to expand our marketing and sales teams. In addition, we are in the process of establishing a European headquarters in Switzerland to lead our commercial operations in Europe, in anticipation of the potential approval of the marketing authorization application for ponatinib. In order to support an effective launch of any product, we will need to make significant financial commitments and devote significant effort, in particular, to recruiting individuals with experience in the sales and marketing of pharmaceutical products. Competition for personnel with these skills is very high and may be particularly difficult for us while our present candidates are yet to be approved and we will be competing with companies that are currently marketing approved, successful drugs. Accordingly, we may be unable to successfully sell any product candidates that we obtain marketing approval to sell. If we are unable to effectively sell our products, our ability to generate revenues will be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to hire, in a timely manner, the qualified sales and marketing personnel we need, if at all. In addition, we may not be able to enter into any marketing or distribution agreements on acceptable terms, if at all. If we cannot establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities as we intend, either by developing our own capabilities or entering into agreements with third parties, sales of future products, if any, may be harmed. 19 If our product candidates are not accepted by patients, physicians and insurers, we will not be successful. Our success is dependent on the acceptance of any approved products. Our product candidates may not achieve market acceptance among patients, physicians or third-party payors, even if we obtain necessary regulatory and reimbursement approvals. Physicians and health care payors may conclude that our product candidates are not as safe and/or effective as competing therapies or are not as attractive based on a cost/benefit analysis as alternative treatments. For example, physicians may elect not to prescribe our drugs, and patients may elect not to request or take them, for a variety of reasons, including lower demonstrated clinical safety and efficacy compared to other drugs; prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; lack of cost-effectiveness; lack of reimbursement availability from third-party payors; a decision to wait for the approval of other therapies that have significant perceived advantages over our drug candidates; convenience and ease of administration; other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; or ineffective marketing and distribution support. Failure to achieve significant market acceptance of our product candidates or to be paid and adequate amount for our product candidates will harm our business. We believe that recommendations by physicians and health care payors will be essential for market acceptance of any product candidates. If our product candidates are approved and fail to achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to generate significant revenues. If we develop a product for commercial use, a subsequent product liability-related claim or recall could have an adverse effect on our business. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products. Prior to obtaining regulatory approval to market our products, we or our collaborators are required to test such products in human clinical trials at health care institutions pursuant to agreements which indemnify such institutions in case of harm caused to patients by our products. We may not be able to avoid significant product liability exposure resulting from use of our products. A product liability-related claim or recall could be detrimental to our business. In addition, except for insurance covering product use in our clinical trials, we do not currently have any product liability insurance, and we may not be able to obtain or maintain such insurance on acceptable terms, or we may not be able to obtain any insurance to provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities, including liabilities arising from our clinical trials. Our inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or limit the commercialization of any products that we or our collaborators may develop. Risks Relating to Our Financial Position and Capital Requirements We have incurred significant losses to date and may never be profitable. Although we had net income in 2010 of $85.2 million, primarily attributable to our License Agreement with Merck, we have incurred significant losses since our formation in 1991, and had an accumulated deficit of $557.0 million at December 31, 2011. Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in research and development of our product candidates, including clinical development of ponatinib, AP26113 and ridaforolimus (prior to our license with Merck), and from general and administrative costs, including costs incurred to prosecute and protect our intellectual property. In addition, we are building a commercial organization to market, sell and distribute our products upon regulatory approval in the United States, Europe and other select markets, worldwide. It is likely that we will incur significant operating losses for the foreseeable future, as we continue our research and development activities and continue to build a sales and marketing organization in anticipation of obtaining regulatory approval to market one or more of our product candidates, which approval may never occur. We currently have no product revenues, limited license revenues and limited commitments for future licensing revenues other than our License Agreement with Merck, and we may not be able to generate such revenues in the future. If our losses continue and we and our existing collaborators or potential future collaborators are unable to successfully develop, commercialize, manufacture and market our product candidates and/or we are unable to enter into additional collaboration agreements or licenses for our intellectual property, we may never generate sufficient revenues to achieve profitability. Even if we and our collaborators are able to commercialize products and we are able to enter into collaboration agreements or licenses in the future, we may never generate sufficient revenues to have profitable operations. 20 Insufficient funding may jeopardize our research and development programs and may require us to reduce our operations or prevent commercialization of our products and technologies. We have funded our operations to date through sales of equity securities, debt, the upfront and milestone payments received from Merck since July 2007, and, to a limited extent, operating revenues. Most of our operating revenue to date has been generated through previous collaborative research and development agreements and existing licenses. As of December 31, 2011, we had cash and cash equivalents of $306.3 million. We estimate that our cash used in operations in 2012 will be in the range of $139 million to $147 million and that our net use of cash will be in the range of $138 million to $146 million. We will require substantial additional funding for our research and development programs (including pre-clinical development and clinical trials), for the pursuit of regulatory approvals and for establishing or accessing manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities related to our product candidates. We will also require funding for our operating expenses (including intellectual property protection and enforcement) as well as capital expenditures to maintain and improve our facility, equipment and systems and provide for growth and expansion of our business. We have the opportunity to receive near-term milestone payments from Merck in an amount of up to $40 million related to regulatory approvals of ridaforolimus in sarcomas, the first of which could occur in 2012. However, we may not receive these payments and funding at all, or in the timeframes we currently anticipate. As of December 31, 2011, we had outstanding warrants to purchase 5,805,843 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $2.15 per share. All of these warrants were exercised in January and February of 2012 for proceeds to us of approximately $12.5 million. In addition, we may from time to time access funding by issuing common stock or other securities in private placements or public offerings. We are currently a “well-known seasoned issuer” pursuant to rules of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and have an active registration statement that allows us to sell additional shares of our common stock and other securities. We may also from time to time seek additional funding from technology licensing, or the issuance of debt or other structured funding alternatives. However, such additional funding may not be available at all, or on terms acceptable to us. If we are not able to secure the significant funding which is required to maintain our operations or continue to fund current or future research and development programs at their current levels or at levels that may be required in the future, or establish or access capabilities necessary for commercialization of our product candidates, we may be required to reduce our operations or to delay, scale back, eliminate or terminate clinical trials for one or more of our product candidates. In addition, we may be required to enter into licenses, settlements or other arrangements with third parties on terms that may be unfavorable to us or to sell, license or relinquish rights to develop or commercialize our product candidates, approved products, technologies or intellectual property. 21 Raising additional capital by issuing securities or through collaboration and licensing arrangements may cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. We may seek to raise the additional capital necessary to fund our operations through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, and collaboration and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders’ ownership interest will be diluted, and the terms of such securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect our stockholders’ rights. Our stockholders’ ownership interest will also be diluted if additional warrants are exercised. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Significant additional losses or insufficient funding may cause us to default on certain covenants of our loan documents. At December 31, 2011, we had $12.6 million outstanding under a term loan agreement with a bank. Pursuant to this loan agreement, we are required to maintain certain financial and non-financial covenants, including minimum cash, cash equivalents and investments of $15 million, a default of any of which would allow the bank to demand payment of its loan. We currently have sufficient liquidity to fund payment of this loan if demand for payment were made. However, if we do not receive sufficient revenues from our collaborations and licenses or from any sales of our products, if approved, or if we are unable to raise adequate financing to fund continuing operations or otherwise to refinance our loan, we may not be able to maintain compliance with loan covenants, may be required to pay off the loan and may be required to reduce our spending on operations. Risks Relating to Our Dependence on Third Parties We have limited experience in conducting clinical trials and are dependent upon the ability of third parties, including our collaborators, contract research organizations, collaborative academic groups, clinical trial sites and investigators, to conduct or to assist us in conducting clinical trials for our product candidates. We have limited experience in designing, initiating, conducting and monitoring the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates. We are currently conducting clinical trials of ponatinib and AP26113. Our License Agreement with Merck provides that Merck is responsible for the development, manufacturing and commercialization of ridaforolimus in multiple cancer indications. We are dependent upon our ability and/or the ability of our collaborators, licensees, contract research organizations, clinical trial sites and investigators to successfully design, initiate, conduct and monitor clinical trials. Failure by us or any of these parties to timely and effectively initiate, conduct and monitor our clinical trials could significantly delay or materially impair our ability to complete clinical trials and/or obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates and, consequently, could delay or materially impair our ability to generate milestones, royalties or other revenues from them. We have limited manufacturing experience and are dependent upon the ability of third parties to manufacture our product candidates. We have no experience in manufacturing any of our product candidates on a large scale and have contracted and expect to continue to contract with third-party manufacturers to provide material for clinical trials and potential commercial launch, and to assist in the development and optimization of our manufacturing processes and methods. Our ability to conduct clinical trials and commercialize our product candidates will depend on the ability of such third parties to manufacture our product candidates on a large scale at a competitive cost and in accordance with cGMPs and other regulatory requirements. If we are not able to obtain contract manufacturing on commercially reasonable terms, obtain or develop the necessary materials and technologies for manufacturing, or obtain intellectual property rights necessary for manufacturing, or if our contract manufacturers fail to provide us with the quantities and quality of the products we require in a timely manner, we may not be able to conduct or complete clinical trials or commercialize our product candidates. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the materials, technologies and intellectual property necessary to successfully manufacture our product candidates for clinical trials and commercialization. 22 Risks associated with our international business relationships could materially adversely affect our business. We have manufacturing, collaborative and clinical trial relationships, and we and our collaborators are seeking approval for our drug candidates outside the United States. In addition, we expect that if ponatinib is approved for commercial sale, a significant portion of our commercial supply chain, including sourcing of raw materials and manufacturing, may be located outside the United States. We are planning to expand our operations in Europe in order to market ponatinib, if approved in the European Union. Consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries. Risks associated with conducting operations in foreign countries include: · differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals in foreign countries; · unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements; · economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; · compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad; · foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes; · foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses or reduced revenues, and other obligations incident to doing business or operating a subsidiary in another country; · workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the United States; · production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and · business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism. These and other risks associated with our international operations could materially adversely affect our business. Because we have licensed ridaforolimus to Merck, we are dependent on Merck for its successful development and commercialization. We have entered into a license agreement with Merck for the development and commercialization of ridaforolimus. Among other provisions, Merck is responsible for the development of ridaforolimus in multiple oncology indications. We depend heavily on Merck for the successful development and commercialization of ridaforolimus, if approved. There can be no assurance that Merck will satisfy its obligations to develop ridaforolimus in multiple oncology indications or that it will be successful in developing and commercializing ridaforolimus. In addition, we cannot predict the success of our License Agreement with Merck or with any other license or collaboration we may enter. Each collaboration or license agreement may involve a complex allocation of responsibilities, costs and benefits. The third party may be responsible for conducting and funding much of the future development and regulatory approval activities for a product candidate and have control over the conduct and timing of development efforts for the product candidate. A third party’s failure to devote sufficient financial and other resources to the development plan may delay the clinical development of a product candidate, which could lead to the delay in payment of clinical and regulatory milestones under our agreements and may delay eventual commercialization of a product candidate and any royalties we could receive on commercial sales. 23 We are dependent upon the ability of our medical device collaborators to develop, manufacture, test and market stents or other medical devices to deliver ridaforolimus. We have no experience in the development of medical devices and do not intend ourselves to develop stents or other medical devices to deliver ridaforolimus. Instead, we have granted licenses to Medinol and ICON and, under those license agreements, we may grant one additional license, to a medical device company for its use in developing and commercializing such medical devices to reduce blockage of injured vessels following stent-assisted angioplasty. We and our medical device collaborators have limited experience in designing, conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approval of drug-eluting stents or other combination products that use a medical device to deliver small-molecule drugs to reduce blockage of injured vessels following interventions in which stents are used in conjunction with balloon angioplasty. We are dependent upon the success of Medinol and ICON and any future medical device partner to successfully develop, manufacture and market stents or other medical devices to deliver ridaforolimus. If Medinol or ICON is not successful and/or if we are not able to enter into an agreement with an additional medical device company to develop, manufacture, and market medical devices to deliver ridaforolimus, we will not be able to generate revenues from the marketing of stents or other medical devices that deliver ridaforolimus. While we expect to supply ridaforolimus to our medical device collaborators and any additional partner, we will be otherwise dependent upon them to develop and commercialize stents or other medical devices to deliver ridaforolimus. Such medical device collaborators have varying degrees of scientific, technical, medical and regulatory experience and resources to, directly or through third parties, develop, manufacture, test or market stents or other medical devices to deliver ridaforolimus. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers and their potential inability to meet our supply commitments to one or more of our collaborators could adversely impact the ability of our collaborators to commercialize stents or other medical devices to deliver ridaforolimus. If any collaborator or licensee terminates its agreement with us or fails to perform its obligations under its agreement with us, or fails to comply with applicable law, the development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed or terminated. Our use of collaborators and licensees for development of our product candidates means that our business would be adversely affected if any collaborator or licensee terminates its agreement with us or fails to perform its obligations under that agreement or under applicable law. Our current or future collaborations and licenses may not result in product candidates that are scientifically or commercially successful or result in the development or commercialization of any product candidates. In addition, disputes may arise in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology or product candidates developed with collaborators and licensees, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to develop and commercialize any affected product candidate. Our current collaboration and license agreements allow, and we expect that any future collaborations and licenses will allow, either party to terminate the agreement for specified material breaches by the other party. If a collaborator or licensee terminates its agreement with us, for breach or otherwise, it may be difficult for us to attract new collaborators or licensees and could adversely affect how we are perceived in the business and financial communities. In addition, a collaborator or licensee could determine that it is in its financial interest to: 24 · pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products, either on its own or jointly with others, that may be competitive with the products on which it is collaborating with us or has licensed from us, which could affect its commitment to us; · pursue higher-priority programs or change the focus of its development programs, which could affect the collaborator’s or licensee’s commitment to us; or · choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our product candidates, if any are approved for marketing, than it does for product candidates of its own development. If any of these events occur, the development and commercialization of one or more of our product candidates could be delayed, curtailed or terminated because we may not have sufficient financial resources or capabilities to continue such development and commercialization on our own. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property We may not be able to protect our intellectual property relating to our research programs, technologies and product candidates or have clearance to practice such programs, technologies and candidates. We have issued patents and pending patent applications covering research methods useful in drug discovery, new chemical compounds discovered in our drug discovery programs including products-in-development, methods and materials for manufacturing our products-in-development and other pharmaceutical products and methods and materials for conducting pharmaceutical research. Pending patent applications may not issue as patents and may not issue in all countries in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products or in countries where others develop, manufacture and sell products using our technologies. In addition, patents issued to us or our licensors may be challenged, and they may be subsequently narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. In that event, such patents may not afford meaningful protection for our technologies or product candidates, which would materially impact our ability to develop and market our product candidates and to generate licensing revenues from our patent portfolio. Certain technologies utilized in our research and development programs are already in the public domain. Third parties, including a number of our competitors, however, have developed competing and/or complementary technologies upon which patent applications have been filed and patents have been granted. These third-party technologies concern in part compounds, compositions, methods of use and production of such compounds and compositions, targets, genes and gene mutations, and the use of such targets, genes and gene mutations to identify drug candidates and develop companion diagnostic methods and corresponding kits. Third party intellectual property protecting such technologies that are related to our business may cover or conflict with our patent applications, technologies or product candidates as well as those of complementary businesses which our business relies upon. Such conflicts could limit the scope of the patents that we may be able to obtain or may result in the denial of our patent applications. If a third party were to obtain intellectual property protection for any of the foregoing, we may be required to challenge such protection, terminate or modify our programs impacted by such protection or obtain licenses from such third parties, which might not be available on acceptable terms. Also, if a third party were to introduce a product into the market which we believe infringes our patents, we may be required to enforce our patent rights or seek to obtain an injunction or other relief, which could be time-consuming and expensive. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position could be harmed. In addition to seeking patents for some of our technology and products, we also rely on trade secrets, including unpatented know-how, technology, and other proprietary information, to maintain our competitive position. We seek to protect these trade secrets, in part, by entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties that have access to them, such as our employees, collaborators, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers, contract manufacturers, consultants, advisors and other third parties. We also have entered into confidentiality and invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and our consultants. Any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose our proprietary information, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, some courts inside and outside the United States are less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets. If any of our trade secrets were to be lawfully obtained or independently developed by a competitor, we would have no right to prevent them from using that technology or information to compete with us. If any our trade secrets were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our competitive position could be harmed. 25 Risks Related to Our Employees and Growth The loss of key members of our scientific and management staff could delay and may prevent the achievement of our research, development and business objectives. We are substantially dependent on our key officers and members of our staff responsible for areas such as drug development, clinical trials, regulatory affairs, drug discovery, manufacturing, commercial operations, business development and intellectual property protection and licensing. As we expand our capabilities in anticipation of the possible launch of commercial products, a loss of key personnel or a failure to properly integrate new personnel could be disruptive. While we have entered into employment agreements with all of our executive officers, these officers may terminate their employment with us at any time. The value to employees of stock-related benefits that vest over time, such as options and restricted stock units, will be significantly affected by movements in our stock price that we cannot control, and may at any point in time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. The loss of, and failure to promptly replace, any member of our management team could significantly delay and may prevent the achievement of our research, development and business objectives. If we fail to expand our development, regulatory and sales and marketing capabilities, and manage our growth effectively, our business could be harmed. We expect to experience significant growth in the number of our employees and the scope of our operations, particularly in the areas of drug development, regulatory affairs and sales and marketing. Recently, we have begun to build out the commercial organization that will be responsible for the commercial launch of ponatinib in the United States, if it receives marketing approval. Because our drug discovery and development activities are highly technical in nature, we require the services of highly qualified and trained scientists who have the skills necessary to conduct these activities. In addition, we need to attract and retain employees with experience in these fields. We face intense competition for our personnel from our competitors, our collaborators and other companies throughout our industry. Moreover, the growth of local biotechnology companies and the expansion of major pharmaceutical companies into the Boston area have increased competition for the available pool of skilled employees, especially in technical fields, and the high cost of living in the Boston area makes it difficult to attract employees from other parts of the country to these areas. Any inability to manage growth could delay the implementation of our business plans or disrupt our operations. Depending on the rate at which we expand our workforce, we may need to seek alternative space for our operations in the future, which may not be available to us on reasonable terms. Our ability to achieve our research and development objectives and to commercialize our drug candidates depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands and expand our internal organization to accommodate additional anticipated growth. If we are unable to hire qualified personnel or manage our growth effectively, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. 26 Risks Relating to Regulatory Approvals, Pricing and Reimbursement Clinical trials for our product candidates are expensive and time consuming, may take longer than we expect or may not be completed at all, and their outcome is uncertain. We and our collaborators are currently conducting multiple clinical trials for our clinical product candidates, and we and our collaborators expect to commence additional trials of ponatinib and our other product candidates in the future. Each of our clinical trials requires the investment of substantial expense and time and the timing of the commencement, continuation and completion of these clinical trials may be subject to significant delays relating to various causes, including scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions, difficulties in identifying and enrolling patients who meet trial eligibility criteria, failure of patients to complete the clinical trial, delay or failure to obtain IRB approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site, and shortages of available drug supply. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, the existence of competing clinical trials and the availability of alternative or new treatments. We depend on medical institutions and clinical research organizations, or CROs, to conduct our clinical trials in compliance with Good Clinical Practice, and to the extent they fail to enroll patients for our clinical trials or are delayed for a significant time in achieving full enrollment, we may be affected by increased costs, program delays or both, which may harm our business. In addition, we conduct clinical trials in foreign countries which may subject us to further delays and expenses as a result of increased drug shipment costs, additional regulatory requirements and the engagement of foreign CROs, as well as expose us to risks associated with less experienced clinical investigators who are unknown to the FDA, different standards of medical care, and foreign currency transactions insofar as changes in the relative value of the United States dollar to the foreign currency where the trial is being conducted may impact our actual costs. Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with FDA or other applicable foreign government guidelines and are subject to oversight by the FDA, other foreign governmental agencies and IRBs at the medical institutions where the clinical trials are conducted. In addition, clinical trials must be conducted with supplies of our product candidates produced under GMP and other requirements in foreign countries, and may require large numbers of test patients. We, the FDA or other foreign governmental agencies could delay, suspend or halt our clinical trials of a product candidate for numerous reasons, including: ● deficiencies in the conduct of the clinical trial, including failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or clinical protocols; ● deficiencies in the clinical trial operations or trial sites resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; ● the product candidate may have unforeseen adverse side effects, including fatalities, or a determination may be made that a clinical trial presents unacceptable health risks; ● the time required to determine whether the product candidate is effective may be longer than expected; ● fatalities or other adverse events arising during a clinical trial due to medical problems that may not be related to clinical trial treatments; ● the product candidate may not appear to be more effective than current therapies; ● the quality or stability of the product candidate may fall below acceptable standards; ● our inability to produce or obtain sufficient quantities of the product candidate to complete the trials; ● our inability to reach agreement on acceptable terms with prospective CROs and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites; ● our inability to obtain IRB approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; ● lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial, including the incurrence of unforeseen costs due to enrollment delays, requirements to conduct additional trials and studies and increased expenses associated with the services of our CROs and other third parties; ● our inability to recruit and enroll patients to participate in clinical trials for reasons including competition from other clinical trial programs for the same or similar indications; or ● our inability to retain patients who have initiated a clinical trial but may be prone to withdraw due to side effects from the therapy, lack of efficacy or personal issues, or who are lost to further follow-up. 27 In addition, clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events, including patient fatalities that may be attributable to our product candidates, during a clinical trial could cause it to be redone or terminated. Further, some of our clinical trials may be overseen by an independent data monitoring committee, or IDMC, and an IDMC may determine to delay or suspend one or more of these trials due to safety or futility findings based on events occurring during a clinical trial. If clinical trials of any of our product candidates fail, we or our collaborators may not be able to market the product candidate which is the subject of the failed clinical trials. The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies could also require additional clinical trials before or after granting of marketing approval for any products, which would result in increased costs and significant delays in the development and commercialization of such products and could result in the withdrawal of such products from the market after obtaining marketing approval. Our failure, or the failure of our collaborators, to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a product candidate in clinical development could delay or prevent obtaining marketing approval of the product candidate and, after obtaining marketing approval, data from post-approval studies could result in the product being withdrawn from the market, either of which would likely have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to obtain government regulatory approval to market our product candidates. To date, none of our product candidates has been approved for commercialization in any country. Prior to commercialization, each product candidate will be subject to an extensive and lengthy governmental regulatory approval process in the United States and in other countries. We or our collaborators may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for any product candidates, or even if approval is obtained, the labeling for such products may place restrictions on their use that could materially impact the marketability and profitability of the product subject to such restrictions. Satisfaction of these regulatory requirements, which includes satisfying the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities that the product is both safe and effective for its intended uses, typically takes several years or more depending upon the type, complexity, novelty and safety profile of the product and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Uncertainty with respect to meeting the regulatory requirements governing our product candidates may result in excessive costs or extensive delays in the regulatory approval process, adding to the already lengthy review process. If regulatory approval of a product is granted, such approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is proven safe and effective, as demonstrated by clinical trials, and may not include all of the indications necessary to successfully market the product. We will not be able to sell our product candidates if we, or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with FDA manufacturing and quality requirements. Before approving any of our product candidates, the FDA will inspect the facility or facilities at which the drug product is manufactured and will not approve the drug candidate unless it is satisfied with our or our third-party manufacturer’s compliance with manufacturing and quality requirements. The manufacturing of our product candidates must comply with cGMP requirements of the FDA and similar requirements of regulatory agencies in other countries. These requirements govern, among other things, quality control and documentation procedures. We, or any third-party manufacturer of our product candidates, may not be able to comply with these requirements, which would prevent us from obtaining approval for or selling such products. Material changes to the manufacturing processes of products after approvals have been granted are also subject to review and approval by the FDA or other regulatory agencies. Following approval, such facilities are subject to continuing FDA and foreign regulatory inspections and failure to comply with cGMPs or similar regulations could result in regulatory action up to and including cessation of shipment of product. 28 Even if we or our collaborators bring products to market, we or they may be unable to effectively price the products or obtain adequate reimbursement for sales of the products, which would prevent the products from becoming profitable. If we or our collaborators succeed in bringing any product candidates to the market, they may not be considered cost-effective, and coverage and adequate payments may not be available or may not be sufficient to allow us to sell such products on a competitive basis. In both the United States and elsewhere, sales of medical products and the availability or acceptance of treatments are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors, such as health maintenance organizations and other commercial insurance plans and governmental programs such as Medicare. Third-party payors, including Medicare, are increasingly challenging the prices charged for pharmaceutical products and medical procedures. Healthcare policy changes may have a material adverse effect on us. Our business may be affected by the efforts of government and third-party payors to contain or reduce the cost of health care through various means. For example, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the Affordable Care Act or ACA), enacted in March 2010, substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry. With regard to pharmaceutical products, among other things, ACA is expected to expand and increase industry rebates for drugs covered under Medicaid programs and make changes to the coverage requirements under the Medicare D program. ACA is currently being challenged in the courts and there are also congressional efforts to repeal ACA. This adds to the uncertainty of the legislative changes enacted as part of ACA, and we cannot predict the impact of ACA or any other legislative or regulatory proposals will have on our business. Each of our product candidates will remain subject to ongoing regulatory review even if it receives marketing approval. If we or our collaborators or contractors fail to comply with continuing regulations, we or they may be subject to enforcement action that could adversely affect us. We and our collaborators and contractors will continue to be subject to pervasive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory authorities even after our product candidates become approved products. We and our collaborators and contractors will continue to be subject to FDA requirements governing, among other things the manufacture, packaging, sale, promotion, adverse event reporting, storage and recordkeeping of our approved products. The Commissioner of the FDA has put FDA-regulated entities on notice that they should expect to see more enforcement actions in all areas regulated by the FDA. Although we have not received any notice that we are the subject of any such enforcement action, it is possible that we may be in the future and that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We or any applicable collaborator of ours may be slow to adapt, or may never adapt, to changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new regulatory requirements. If we or any applicable collaborator of ours fails to comply with the requirements of the FDA and other applicable U.S. or foreign governmental or regulatory authorities or previously unknown problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes are discovered, we or the collaborator could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including restrictions on the products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes; warning letters; civil or criminal penalties; fines; injunctions; product seizures or detentions; import bans; voluntary or mandatory product recalls and publicity requirements; suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; total or partial suspension of production; and refusal to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications. 29 Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Results of our operations, general market conditions for biotechnology stocks and other factors could result in a sudden change in the value of our stock. As a biopharmaceutical company with no products currently on the market, we continue to experience significant volatility in the price of our common stock. In 2011, our stock price ranged from a high of $13.50 to a low of $5.04. Some of the many factors that could contribute to such volatility include: ● announcements regarding results and timing of preclinical studies and clinical trials for our product candidates; ● our plans for seeking marketing approval and the expected timing of any regulatory approvals of our product candidates; ● announcements of financial results and other operating performance measures, including product revenues during the initial period after ponatinib’s commercial launch; ● our funding resources and requirements, including announcements of new equity or debt financings; ● evidence of the safety or efficacy of our product candidates; ● decisions by regulatory agencies that may impact our product candidates; ● the timing of our receipt of, or our failure to receive, future milestones under our License Agreement with Merck; ● announcements regarding existing collaborations or new collaborations or our failure to enter into collaborations; ● announcements regarding product developments or regulatory approvals obtained by companies developing competing products; ● announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic product candidates; ● developments relating to intellectual property rights, including licensing, litigation and governmental regulation; ● healthcare or cost-containment legislation and public policy pronouncements; ● sales of our common stock by us, our insiders or our other stockholders; ● market conditions for biopharmaceutical stocks in general; and ● general economic and market conditions. The stock markets, and the markets for biotechnology stocks in particular, have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Investors may not be able to sell when they desire due to insufficient buyer demand and may realize less than, or lose all of, their investment. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and provisions in our charter and bylaws could delay, discourage or make more difficult a third-party acquisition of control of us. Because we are a Delaware corporation, the certain provisions of Delaware law could delay, discourage or make more difficult a third-party acquisition of control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to stockholders or the stockholders regard it as such. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or DGCL, which prohibits certain “business combination” transactions (as defined in Section 203) with an “interested stockholder” (defined in Section 203 as a 15% or greater stockholder) for a period of three years after a stockholder becomes an “interested stockholder”, unless the attaining of “interested stockholder” status or the transaction is pre-approved by our board of directors, the transaction results in the attainment of at least an 85% ownership level by an acquirer or the transaction is later approved by our board of directors and by our stockholders by at least a 66 2/3% vote of our stockholders other than the “interested stockholder”, each as specifically provided in Section 203. 30 In addition, because our board of directors is a classified board, as described below, Section 141(k)(1) of the DGCL provides that directors may only be removed by the stockholders and then only for “cause”. Further, Section 242(b)(1) of the DGCL provides that amendment of our certificate of incorporation requires that the amendment be determined by the board of directors to be advisable and be submitted by our board of directors to our stockholders for action by them and then approved by our stockholders holding a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws, each as currently in effect, also contain certain provisions that may delay, discourage or make more difficult a third-party acquisition of control of us: · a classified board of directors, with three classes of directors, each serving for a staggered three-year term, such that not all members of the board of directors may be elected at one time; · the authorized number of directors may be changed only by resolution of the board of directors; · any vacancies on the board of directors may only be filled by a majority of the directors then serving, although not a quorum, and not by the stockholders; · the ability of the board of directors to issue preferred stock that could dilute the stock ownership of a potential unsolicited acquirer and so possibly hinder an acquisition of control of us that is not approved by our board of directors, including through the use of preferred stock in connection with a shareholder rights plan which we could adopt by action of the board of directors; · record date-setting provisions for annual and special meetings of stockholders and actions by written consent, provisions regulating the conduct of meetings of stockholders and action by written consent, and “advance notice” timing and informational requirements for stockholder nominations to our board of directors at stockholder meetings or for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings or by written consent; and · the inability of our stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholder, the limitation of matters to be acted upon at an annual meeting of stockholders to those matters proposed by the Company or properly brought before the meeting and the limitation of matters to be acted upon at a special meeting of stockholders to matters which we place on the agenda for the meeting. These provisions of the DGCL and our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws may delay, discourage or make more difficult certain types of transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the current market price, and might limit the ability of our stockholders to approve transactions that they think may be in their best interest. 31 ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 