Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks relating to our business and our common stock, together with the other information described herein. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. 9 Risks Related to Our Business We have a long history of operating losses. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $105.3 million. We incurred net losses of $15.9 million, $15.4 million and $11.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. There can be no assurance that we will ever become profitable. Additionally, our independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph in its report on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006 with respect to substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of that uncertainty. We will need to raise additional capital, which, if through equity securities placements, will result in further dilution of existing and future stockholders. Historically, we have met our short- and long-term cash needs through debt issuances and the sale of common stock in private placements, because cash flow from operations has been insufficient to fund our operations. Set forth below is information regarding net proceeds received recently through private placements of our convertible debt, common stock and through the exercise of stock options and warrants: (In thousands) Private Placement of Convertible Debt Private Placements of Common Stock Exercise of Stock Options and Warrants 2006 $ 10,000 — $ 3,843 2005 — $ 4,531 $ 152 2004 — $ 10,741 $ 192 We received gross proceeds of $6.3 million from the issuance of common stock to a group of private investors in February 2007. While we believe that these funds, along with the cash flow generated by our anticipated growth in our Semiconductor and Systems businesses, should be adequate to enable us to complete our UWB engineering development and launch commercialization of UWB products. Depending upon the results and timing of our UWB initiative and the growth of our Semiconductor and Systems businesses, we may need to raise further capital in 2007 or in subsequent years. 2007 and future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including cash flow from operations, maintaining our gross margins at current levels, continued progress in research and development programs, competing technological and market developments, and our ability to market our products successfully. There can be no assurance that additional equity or debt financing, if required, will be available on acceptable terms or at all. Moreover, any equity financing or convertible debt financing would result in dilution to our existing stockholders and could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. From November 2005 to early May 2006 and late May 2006 to mid July 2006, our common stock did not meet the minimum bid price requirement to remain listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. If we were to be delisted, it could make trading in our stock more difficult and our $10.9 million outstanding principal amount of convertible notes would be deemed immediately payable at the option of the holders. Our voting common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market. There are various quantitative listing requirements for a company to remain listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, including maintaining a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share of common stock and maintaining stockholders’ equity of $2.5 million. On June 27, 2006, the Nasdaq Stock Market notified us that for the previous 30 consecutive business days the bid price of our common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share price requirement for continued inclusion under Nasdaq Marketplace Rules. We were given until December 26, 2006 to regain compliance with the Nasdaq Capital Market $1.00 minimum bid price rule. On July 28, 2006, we received notification from the Nasdaq Stock Market that we had met the compliance standards and the matter was closed. At December 31, 2006, we had total stockholders’ equity of $6.0 million. To the extent we incur net losses and do not raise additional equity capital, our stockholders’ equity would decline. If the minimum bid price of our common stock were to close below $1.00 for 30 consecutive days, or our stockholders equity fell below the $2.5 million and we did not otherwise have $35 million market value of our securities, we would likely again receive notification from the Nasdaq Capital Market that we were not in compliance with the $1.00 minimum bid price rule. If we do not regain compliance within the allotted 10 compliance period, including any extensions that may be granted by the Nasdaq Capital Market, the Nasdaq Capital Market would notify us that our common stock would be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, eliminating the only established trading market for our shares. We would then be entitled to appeal this determination to a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel and request a hearing. If we fail at such hearing in our efforts to retain our listing, we would be delisted. In the event we are delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, we would be forced to list our shares on the OTC Electronic Bulletin Board or some other quotation medium, such as the pink sheets, depending on our ability to meet the specific listing requirements of those quotation systems. As a result, an investor might find it more difficult to trade, or to obtain accurate price quotations for, such shares. Delisting might also reduce the visibility, liquidity, and price of our voting common stock. In the event our common stock was not listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market or another established automated over-the-counter trading market in the United States, all amounts outstanding under our $10.9 million senior secured convertible notes would become due and payable at the option of the holders. We are dependent upon a significant shareholder to meet our financing needs and there can be no assurance that this shareholder will continue to provide financing. We have relied upon the ability of Carl Berg, a director and significant owner of our common stock, for interim financing needs. Mr. Berg has provided a personal guarantee to Samsung Semiconductor Inc., one of our contract ASIC manufacturers, to secure our working capital requirements for ASIC purchase order fulfillment and a personal guarantee to Greater Bay Bank, N.A. in connection with our existing $4.0 million accounts receivable-based line of credit facility and $2.5 million term loan. In connection with these guarantees, Mr. Berg maintains a security interest in all the Company’s assets, subject to the bank’s lien on our accounts receivable, and has subordinated that security interest in accounts receivable to holders of our convertible debt. There can be no assurances that Mr. Berg will continue to provide such interim financing or personal guarantees, should we need additional funds or increased credit facilities with our vendors. We have a significant amount of convertible securities that will dilute existing stockholders upon conversion. At March 16, 2007, we had outstanding 3,161 shares of preferred shares, 4,236,110 warrants, and 5,714,642 options, and $10.9 million of convertible notes, which are all exercisable into or convertible for shares of common stock. The 3,161 shares of preferred stock are convertible into 3,161,000 shares of our voting common stock and the convertible notes are convertible into 10,946,250 shares of common stock. Furthermore, at March 16, 2007, 2,125,330 additional shares of common stock were available for grant to our employees, officers, directors and consultants under our current stock option and incentive plans. We also may issue additional shares in acquisitions and additional convertible notes as interest payments on our outstanding convertible notes. Any additional grant of options under existing or future plans or issuance of shares in connection with an acquisition or issuance of additional convertible notes will further dilute existing stockholders. Delays in product development could adversely affect our market position or customer relationships. We have experienced delays in product development in the past and may experience similar future delays. Given the short product life cycles in the markets for certain products, any delay or unanticipated difficulty associated with new product introductions or product enhancements could cause us to lose customers, damage our competitive position and not achieve revenues which would otherwise have been the case. Prior delays have resulted from numerous factors, such as: · changing product specifications; · the discontinuation of certain third party components; · difficulties in hiring and retaining necessary personnel; · difficulties in reallocating engineering resources and other resource limitations; · difficulties with independent contractors; · changing market or competitive product requirements; · unanticipated engineering complexity; · undetected errors or failures in software and hardware; and · delays in the acceptance or shipment of products by customers. 11 The development of new, technologically advanced products, including our significant investment in UWB, is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and highly skilled engineering and development personnel, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. In order to compete, we must be able to deliver to customers products that are highly reliable, operate with the customer’s existing equipment, lower the customer’s costs of acquisition, installation and maintenance, and provide an overall cost-effective solution. We may not be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products successfully, if at all, or on a timely basis. Further, our new products may not gain market acceptance or we may not be able to respond effectively to product announcements by competitors, technological changes or emerging industry standards. Our failure to respond effectively to technological changes would significantly harm our business. Finally, there can be no assurances we will be successful in our product development efforts. We rely on certain vendors for a significant portion of our manufacturing. If these vendors experience delays in the production and shipping of our products, this would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. At December 31, 2006, approximately 80% of our products are manufactured on a turnkey basis by four vendors: BTW Inc., Furthertec Company Ltd., Samsung Semiconductor Inc. and Veris Manufacturing. If these vendors experience production or shipping problems for any reason, we in turn could experience delays in the production and shipping of our products, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. A significant portion of our semiconductor revenue is from products that are designed for consumer goods that have seasonal sales. To the extent that consumers do not purchase end products in which our products appear demand for our products and our revenues will decline. A significant portion of our semiconductor revenue is subject to risks associated with seasonal sales of certain end products through retail outlets, with a majority of such sales occurring from October through December. As a result, our annual operating results with respect to sales of our semiconductor chips designed into newly introduced products depend, in large part, on the quantity of consumer purchases of certain end products during the relatively brief holiday season. We are dependent on our suppliers. If our suppliers experience labor problems, supply shortages or product discontinuations, this would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We purchase all of our parts from outside suppliers and from time-to-time experience delays in obtaining some components or peripheral devices. Additionally, we are dependent on sole source suppliers for certain components. There can be no assurance that labor problems, supply shortages or product discontinuations will not occur in the future, which could significantly increase the cost, delay shipment, or cause us to cease production of our products, which, in turn could adversely affect our results of operations. If we fail to meet certain covenants required by our credit facilities, we may not be able to draw down on such facilities and our ability to finance our operations could be adversely affected. We have access to a $4.0 million credit line under which we can borrow up to 90% of our eligible outstanding accounts receivable and a $2.5 million term loan with the same bank. The various agreements in connection with such credit line and term loan require us to maintain certain covenants. At December 31, 2006, we were in compliance with all covenants, including the net loss covenant. In the event we violate any covenants and are not able to obtain a waiver, we will not be able to draw down on the line of credit or term loan, and any amounts outstanding under such line of credit or term loan may become immediately due and payable. Either event could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operation. Furthermore, the restrictions contained in the line of credit and term loan documents, as well as the terms of other indebtedness we may incur from time-to-time, could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans. These restrictions could also adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, meet other capital needs, or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. 12 Certain events will result in our senior secured convertible notes becoming due and payable prior to maturity or will require us to repurchase our senior secured convertible notes prior to maturity, either of which would adversely affect our ability to finance our operations. The provisions of our senior secured convertible notes, due January 1, 2011, provide that if we, among other things: (i) default on any principal or interest payment on our senior secured convertible notes; (ii) fail to comply with any of our covenants in the documents governing the issuance of our senior secured convertible notes; (iii) do not pay at final maturity (either at stated maturity or upon acceleration) any of our other indebtedness with an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 million, the outstanding principal and accrued interest on such notes will become due and payable. In addition, our senior secured convertible notes provide, that, upon the occurrence of any of the following events, the holders of the notes will have the right to require us to repurchase any or all of such notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of notes to be repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest: (i) failure of our common stock to be traded on a national securities exchange, Nasdaq Stock Market or another established automated over-the-counter trading market in the United States or (ii) acquisition of more than 50% of our outstanding voting stock or merger with another company if our then shareholders do not continue to own a majority of our outstanding voting stock. At December 31, 2006, we owed $10.9 million under our senior secured convertible notes. Repayment of this amount prior to stated maturity would adversely impact our ability to finance our operations or other capital needs. If we are unable to renew or extend our existing line of credit or term loan upon their expiration date, our ability to finance our operations could be adversely affected. Our $2.5 million term loan and a $4.0 million credit line expire on February 23, 2008. If we are unable to renew the term loan or credit line on favorable terms upon expiration, we would be required to immediately pay all outstanding obligations under these facilities. Repayment of the principal amounts and interest due could adversely affect our other capital requirements, as well as our ability to finance our operations on an ongoing basis. We depend on a few customers for a high percentage of our revenues and the loss or failure to pay of any one of these customers could result in a substantial decline in our revenues and profits and affect our cash flow. For the year ended December 31, 2006, our five largest customers collectively provided 43% of our total revenue and as of December 31, 2006, comprised 40% of our accounts receivable balance. Sales to one customer accounted for 24% of our revenue in the year ended December 31, 2006. We do not have long-term contracts requiring any customer to purchase any minimum amount of products. There can be no assurance that we will continue to receive orders of the same magnitude as in the past from existing customers or will be able to market our current or proposed products to new customers. The loss of any major customer, the failure of any major customer to pay us, or failure of a major customer to issue additional purchase orders, would have a material adverse effect on our revenue, results of operation, and business as a whole, absent the timely replacement of the associated revenues and profit margins associated with such business. Furthermore, since many of our semiconductor products are integrated into our customers’ products, these products are dependent upon the overall success of our customers’ products, over which we often have no control. Our quarterly financial results are subject to significant fluctuations and if actual revenues are less than projected revenues, we may be unable to reduce expenses proportionately, and our operating results, cash flows and liquidity would likely be adversely affected. We have been unable in the past to forecast accurately our operating expenses and revenue. Revenues currently depend heavily on volatile customer purchasing patterns. If actual revenues are less than projected revenues, we may be unable to reduce expenses proportionately, and our operating results, cash flows and liquidity would likely be adversely affected. Our markets are subject to rapid technological change, and to compete effectively, we must continually introduce new products, requiring a significant influx of additional capital. Many of our markets are characterized by extensive research and development and rapid technological change resulting in short product life cycles. Development by others of better, new or improved products, processes or technologies may make our products or proposed products obsolete or less competitive. We must devote substantial efforts and financial resources to enhance our existing products and to develop new products, such as our significant investment in UWB technology. To 13 fund such ongoing research and development, we will require a significant influx of additional capital. There can be no assurance that we will succeed with these efforts. Failure to effectively develop such products, notably our UWB technology, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to protect our proprietary information. As of December 31, 2006, we held five patents and four pending applications in the United States. Certain of these patents have also been filed and issued in countries outside the United States. We treat our technical data as confidential and rely on internal non-disclosure safeguards, including confidentiality agreements with employees, and on laws protecting trade secrets, to protect our proprietary information. There can be no assurance that these measures will adequately protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information or prove valuable in light of future technological developments. In addition, we occasionally receive notices by third parties of claims regarding infringement by our products of intellectual property rights held by such third parties. Since 2001, we have not had to engage in any material litigation or incur material expenses regarding such claims. However, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future or that such claims will not result in costly litigation or require us to license intellectual proprietary rights from third parties. In addition, there can be no assurance that any such licenses would be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to respond to rapid technological change in a timely manner, then we may lose customers to our competitors. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality and features of our products. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change, changes in user and customer requirements and preferences and frequent new product and service introductions. If competitors introduce products and services embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, then our existing proprietary technology and systems may become obsolete. Our future success will depend on our ability to do the following: · both license and internally develop leading technologies useful in our business; · enhance our existing technologies; · develop new services and technology that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective customers; and · respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. To develop our proprietary technology entails significant technical and business risks. We may use new technologies ineffectively, or we may fail to adapt our proprietary technology and transaction processing systems to customer requirements or emerging industry standards. If we face material delays in introducing new services, products and enhancements, then our customers may forego the use of our services and use those of our competitors. We typically operate without a significant amount of backlog, which could have an adverse impact on our operating results. We typically operate with a small amount of backlog. Accordingly, we generally do not have a material backlog of unfilled orders, and revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent on orders booked in that quarter. Any significant weakening in current customer demand for any of our lead products would therefore have, and has had in the past, an almost immediate adverse impact on our operating results. Our common stock price is volatile. The market price for our voting common stock is volatile and has fluctuated significantly to date. For example, between January 1, 2006 and March 16, 2007, the per share price has fluctuated between $0.62 and $1.85 per share, closing at $1.32 on March 16, 2007. The trading price of our voting common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors including the following: 14 · actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; · announcements of technological innovations or failures, new sales formats or new products or services by us or our competitors; · cyclical nature of consumer products using our technology; · changes in financial estimates by us or securities analysts; · changes in the economic performance and/or market valuations of other multi-media, or fabless semiconductor companies; · announcements by us of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · additions or departures of key personnel; · additions or losses of significant customers; and · sales of common stock or issuance of other dilutive securities. In addition, the securities markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent times, and the market prices of the securities of technology companies have been especially volatile. These broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of stock, many companies have been the object of securities class action litigation, including us. If we are subject to a securities class action, then it could result in additional substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs upon us and may adversely affect our business. Some of our operations are subject to state, federal, and international laws governing protection of the environment, human health and safety, and regulating the use of certain chemical substances. We endeavor to comply with these environmental laws, yet compliance with such laws could increase our operations and product costs. Any violation of these laws can subject us to significant liability, including fines and penalties, and prohibit sales of our products in one or more states or countries, and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Recent environmental legislation within the European Union (EU) may increase our cost of doing business internationally and impact our revenues from EU countries as we comply with and implement these new requirements. The European Parliament has enacted the Restriction on Use of Hazardous Substances Directive, or “RoHS Directive,” which restricts the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. We need to redesign products containing hazardous substances regulated under the RoHS Directive to reduce or eliminate regulated hazardous substances contained in our products. As an example, certain of our products include lead, which is included in the list of restricted substances. As of December 31, 2006, our semiconductor products and many of our systems products complied with the RoHS Directive. However, due to the level of effort and cost in redesigning products, certain systems products will not be redesigned to become RoHS compliant. Such decisions have been made based on the products estimated remaining life and the products primary sales regions being located outside the EU. For certain of our mixer and digital signage products, we continue our compliance efforts but do not expect to meet the requirements of the RoHS Directive until March 31, 2007 and September 30, 2007, respectively. As a result, we will be unable to sell these products into the EU market absent compliance. These delays may have an adverse effect on our overall sales and results of operations. Any acquisitions of companies or technologies by us may result in distraction of our management and disruptions to our business. We may acquire or make investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products if appropriate opportunities arise, as was the case in February 2004 when we acquired the stock of COMO Computer and Motion GmbH and in May 2004 when we acquired substantially all the assets of Visual Circuits Corporation. From time-to-time, we may engage in discussions and negotiations with companies regarding the possibility of acquiring or investing in their businesses, products, services or technologies. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates in the future, or if we do identify suitable candidates, we may not be able to make such acquisitions or investments on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. If we acquire or invest in another company, we could have difficulty assimilating that company’s personnel, operations, technology or products and service offerings. In addition, the key personnel of the 15 acquired company may decide not to work for us. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and adversely otherwise affect operations. Furthermore, we may incur indebtedness or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions and/or pay for the legal, accounting or finders fees typically associated with an acquisition. The issuance of equity securities could be dilutive to our existing stockholders. In addition, the accounting treatment for any acquisition transaction may result in accounting for significant goodwill and intangible assets, which, if impaired, will adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. The accounting treatment for any potential acquisition may also result in a charge for in-process research and development expense, as was the case with the acquisition of Visual Circuits Corporation, which will negatively affect our consolidated results of operations. We are exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate financial controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls. We will be required to meet the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act by December 31, 2007. Compliance with the requirements of Section 404 is expected to be expensive and time-consuming. We estimate that we will spend approximately $650,000 to comply. If we fail to complete this evaluation in a timely manner, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot timely attest to our evaluation, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Risks Related to Our Industry International sales are subject to significant risk. Our revenues from outside the United States are subject to inherent risks related thereto, including currency rate fluctuations, the general economic and political conditions in each country. There can be no assurance that an economic or currency crisis experienced in certain parts of the world will not reduce demand for our products and therefore have a material adverse effect on our revenue or operating results. Our businesses are very competitive. The computer peripheral and semiconductor markets are extremely competitive and are characterized by significant price erosion over the life of a product. We currently compete with other developers of video conversion products and with video-graphic integrated circuit developers. Many of our competitors have greater market recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing and human resources. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against existing companies or new entrants to the marketplace. The video production equipment and semiconductor markets are highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, new product development and obsolescence, evolving industry standards and significant price erosion over the life of a product. Competition is fragmented with several hundred manufacturers supplying a variety of products to this market. We anticipate increased competition from both existing manufacturers and new market entrants. Increased competition and rapid technological advances could result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors in these markets. Often our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing, sales and customer support resources, greater name recognition and larger installed customer bases than we possess. In addition, some of our competitors also offer a wide variety of product offerings which may confer a competitive advantage based upon their ability either to bundle their equipment in certain large system sales or combine products more cost effectively than we can offer. 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 