ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS THE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES DESCRIBED BELOW ARE THOSE THAT WE CURRENTLY BELIEVE MAY MATERIALLY AFFECT OUR COMPANY. ADDITIONAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES THAT WE ARE UNAWARE OF ALSO MAY BECOME IMPORTANT FACTORS THAT AFFECT OUR COMPANY. IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING RISKS ACTUALLY OCCUR, THEY MAY MATERIALLY HARM OUR BUSINESS, OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Risks Relating to Our Business We and our partners may never succeed in developing marketable products or generating product revenues. We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery and development of drugs to provide therapeutic intervention in treating human diseases at the cellular level. As with all science, we face much trial and error, and we may fail at numerous stages along the way, which would inhibit us from successfully developing, manufacturing and marketing our drug candidates. Our lead product candidate, AP23573, is currently in Phase 2 clinical trials for certain cancers, and we do not currently have any products on the market and have no product revenues. Factors which would affect our ability to obtain regulatory approval and to achieve market acceptance and gain market share for our product candidates include, among other factors, product formulation, dose, dosage regimen, our ability to obtain timely and sufficient patient enrollment in our clinical trials, our ability to manufacture, directly or indirectly, sufficient and cost-effective quantities of our product candidates, and our ability to sell, market and distribute, directly or indirectly, such product candidates. We and our medical device partner have limited experience in designing, conducting and managing the clinical testing necessary to obtain such regulatory approval. Additionally, we do not currently have any partners to assist in developing and commercializing our cancer product candidates and expect to be dependent upon such partners to successfully develop and commercialize such cancer products outside the United States. In particular, failure to secure one or more partners to assist in development and commercialization of AP23573 would have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate significant product revenues for AP23573 for cancer indications outside the United States. -11- We are also dependent upon the success of Medinol and any future medical device partners (collectively, our partners) to develop, manufacture and market stents or other medical devices to deliver AP23573 to reduce reblockage of injured arteries following stent-assisted angioplasty. To date, we have entered into only one such agreement, with Medinol. If Medinol is not successful and/or if we are not able to enter into agreements with additional medical device companies experienced in the development, manufacture, and marketing of medical devices to deliver AP23573, we will not be able to generate revenues from the marketing of stents or other medical devices that deliver AP23573. Other than AP23573, we do not have any product candidates in clinical development, and we have not designated any clinical candidates from our existing preclinical programs. We do not expect to have any products on the market before 2008, at the earliest, and, ultimately, we and our partners may not have any products on the market for several years, if at all. We and our partners may not succeed in developing or commercializing any products which will generate product revenues for our company. If we and our partners are not successful in developing or marketing AP23573 or other product candidates, we will not be profitable. We have incurred significant losses to date and may never be profitable. We have incurred significant operating losses in each year since our formation in 1991 and have an accumulated deficit of $247.1 million from our operations through December 31, 2005. Losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in research and development of our product candidates, including clinical development of AP23573, our lead product candidate, and from general and administrative costs associated with our operations. It is likely that we will incur significant operating losses for the foreseeable future. We currently have no product revenues, limited license revenues and limited commitments for future licensing revenues, and may not be able to generate such revenues in the future. If our losses continue and we and our partners are unable to successfully develop, commercialize, manufacture and market our product candidates and/or we are unable to enter into agreements and licenses of our intellectual property, we may never generate sufficient revenues to achieve profitability. Even if we and our partners are able to commercialize products and we are able to enter into agreements or licenses in the future, we may never generate sufficient revenues to have profitable operations. Insufficient funding may jeopardize our research and development programs and may prevent commercialization of our products and technologies. We have funded our operations to date through sales of equity securities, debt and operating revenue. Most of our operating revenue to date has been generated through previous collaborative research and development agreements and existing licenses. We currently do not have any committed funding from any pharmaceutical or biotechnology company to advance any of our product development programs. Although we believe that our current available funds will be adequate to satisfy our capital and operating requirements into mid 2007, we will require substantial additional funding for our research and development programs (including pre-clinical development and clinical trials), for operating expenses (including intellectual property protection and enforcement), for the pursuit of regulatory approvals and for establishing manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities. We received net proceeds of $57.9 million from the sale of 8,625,000 shares of our common stock in August 2005. We have effective shelf registration statements on file with the SEC under which we can sell up to 2,815,000 shares of our common stock. We may sell part or all of these shares at our discretion, and may be able to increase the number of shares to be sold in connection with an offering of these shares, subject to certain limitations under federal securities laws and the rules of the Nasdaq National Market. While we intend to seek additional funding from product-based collaborations, technology licensing, and public or private financings, such additional funding may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Accordingly, we may not be able to secure the significant funding which is required to maintain and continue each of our research and development programs at their current levels or at levels that may be required in the future. If we cannot secure adequate financing, we may be required to delay, scale back, eliminate or terminate clinical trials and/or seeking marketing approval for AP23573 for one or more indications, to delay, scale back or eliminate one or more of our research and development programs, or to enter into license or other arrangements with third parties to purchase, commercialize or otherwise obtain rights in products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to develop ourselves. -12- We have limited manufacturing experience and are dependent upon the ability of third parties to manufacture our product candidates, which raises uncertainty as to our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates. We have no experience in manufacturing any of our product candidates on a large scale and have contracted with third party manufacturers to provide material for clinical trials and to assist in the development and optimization of our manufacturing processes and methods. Our ability to conduct clinical trials and commercialize our product candidates will depend on the ability of such third parties to manufacture our products on a large scale at a competitive cost and in accordance with cGMP and other regulatory requirements. If we are not able to obtain contract manufacturing on commercially reasonable terms, obtain or develop the necessary materials and technologies for manufacturing, or obtain intellectual property rights necessary for manufacturing, we may not be able to conduct or complete clinical trials or commercialize our product candidates. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such requisite terms, materials, technologies and intellectual property necessary to successfully manufacture our product candidates for clinical trials or commercialization. The loss of key members of our scientific and management staff could delay and may prevent the achievement of our research, development and business objectives. Our performance as a specialized scientific business is substantially dependent on our key officers and members of our scientific staff responsible for areas such as drug development, clinical trials, regulatory affairs, drug discovery, manufacturing, marketing, business development and intellectual property protection and licensing. We also are dependent upon a few of our scientific advisors to assist in formulating our research and development strategy. While we have entered into employment agreements with all of our executive officers, these officers may terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of, and failure to promptly replace, any member of our management team could significantly delay and may prevent the achievement of our research, development and business objectives. We are dependent upon the ability of our medical device partner and potential additional partners to develop, manufacture, test and market stents or other medical devices to deliver AP23573. We have no experience in the development of medical devices and will not ourselves develop stents or other medical devices to deliver AP23573. Instead, we have granted one license, and may grant up to two additional licenses, under our rights to AP23573 to medical device companies for their use in developing and commercializing such medical devices to reduce blockage of injured vessels following stent-assisted angioplasty. While we expect to supply AP23573 to our medical device partner and any additional partners (collectively, our partners), we will be otherwise dependent upon them to develop and commercialize stents or other medical devices to deliver AP23573. Such medical device partners will have various degrees of scientific, technical, medical and regulatory experience and resources to, directly or through third parties, develop, manufacture, test or market stents or other medical devices to deliver AP23573. Their ability to conduct clinical trials and commercialize such medical devices will be dependent on the safety profile of AP23573 and our ability to manufacture and supply AP23573, either directly or through third parties, at a competitive cost and in accordance with cGMP and other regulatory requirements. We depend upon third-party manufacturers or collaborative partners for the production of AP23573 for clinical trials and intend to use third-party manufacturers to produce AP23573 on commercial scale. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers and their potential inability to meet our supply commitments to one or more of our partners could adversely impact the ability of our partners to commercialize stents or other medical devices to deliver AP23573. -13- We anticipate that our partners will seek to develop and commercialize stents or other medical devices to deliver AP23573 that do not infringe third-party patents. However, there can be no assurance that the devices delivering AP23573 marketed by our partners will not be subject to third-party claims. Furthermore, the patents issued to us or our partners covering AP23573 and/or medical devices, including stents, may be subject to challenge and may be subsequently narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. Either such event would adversely impact the ability of one or more of our partners to market their stents or other medical devices to deliver AP23573. Our existing license agreement with Medinol allows either party to terminate under certain circumstances, including Medinol’s reasonable business judgment that development of a medical device to deliver AP23573 is not feasible. Accordingly, Medinol may be unable to develop a medical device to deliver AP23573 and we may also not be able to enter into any additional licensing agreements with any other medical device companies to develop such devices on terms which are acceptable to us, or at all. Our inability to enter into such transactions, or the inability of one or more of our partners to develop or commercialize stents or other medical devices to deliver AP23573 for any reason, will adversely impact our ability to generate revenues from any licenses of AP23573. We will continue to expend significant resources on the enforcement and licensing of our NF-kB patent portfolio and may be unable to generate material revenues from these efforts, if we are unable to enforce against, or license our NF-kB patents to, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. We are the exclusive licensee of a family of patents, three in the U.S. and one in Europe, including a pioneering U.S. patent covering methods of treating human disease by regulating NF-kB cell-signaling activity, hereinafter referred to as the ‘516 Patent, awarded to a team of inventors from The Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard University. We have initiated a licensing program to generate revenues from the discovery, development, manufacture and sale of products covered by our NF-kB patent portfolio. These patents have been, and in the future may be, challenged and may be subsequently narrowed, invalidated, declared unenforceable or circumvented, any of which could materially impact our ability to generate licensing revenues from them. On June 25, 2002, we, together with these academic institutions, filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts, or the U.S. District Court, against Eli Lilly and Company, hereinafter referred to as Lilly, alleging infringement upon of certain claims of the ’516 Patent through sales of Lilly’s osteoporosis drug, Evista®, and its septic shock drug, Xigris®. Several cases have been decided by the U.S. Court of Appeals and the Supreme Court addressing issues pertinent to this litigation since its inception. The trial in this case is scheduled to commence on April 10, 2006 in the U.S. District Court. On April 4, 2005, Lilly filed an ex parte request in the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, to reexamine the patentability of certain claims of the ‘516 Patent. In addition, a third party filed an ex parte request in the PTO on December 2, 2005 to reexamine the patentability of certain claims of the ‘516 Patent. -14- As exclusive licensee of this patent, we are obligated for the costs expended for its prosecution in the PTO, for its enforcement in this litigation and otherwise. Therefore, we will continue to expend significant capital and management resources pursuing this litigation through trial and subsequent appeals and in the reexamination process in the PTO, and the outcome is uncertain. If the claims of the ’516 Patent which are at issue in this litigation are invalidated by the PTO or in the courts or found not to be infringed in this litigation, we will not realize any revenues on sales of Evista or Xigris, and could be liable under certain limited circumstances for Lilly’s litigation costs and potentially attorneys’ fees. If we prevail at trial in our litigation against Lilly, any damages we may be awarded by the jury could be subsequently eliminated or limited by an adverse finding upon appeal or in the event that the claims of the ‘516 patent are invalidated by the PTO. Invalidation of these or other claims of the ’516 Patent in the litigation or by the PTO would have a significant adverse impact on our ability to generate revenues from our NF-kB licensing program. Moreover, significant expenditures to enforce these patent rights without generating revenues or accessing additional capital could adversely impact our ability to further our clinical programs and our research and development programs at the current levels or at levels that may be required in the future. Because we do not own all of the outstanding stock of our subsidiary, AGTI, we may not realize all of the potential future economic benefit from products developed based on technology licensed to or owned by our subsidiary. Our majority-owned subsidiary, AGTI, holds licenses from Harvard University, Stanford University and other universities relating to our ARGENT cell-signaling regulation technology, and owns the intellectual property on our mTOR inhibitors derived from our ARGENT programs, including AP23573. The two directors of AGTI are also members of the Board of Directors of ARIAD. Minority stockholders of AGTI, including Harvard University, Stanford University, several of our scientific advisors, and several current and former members of our management and Board of Directors, own 20% of the issued and outstanding common stock of AGTI. We own the remaining 80% of the issued and outstanding common stock of AGTI. We do not currently have a license agreement with AGTI that provides us with rights to commercialize product candidates, based on our ARGENT cell-signaling regulation technology or mTOR inhibitors derived from our ARGENT programs, solely for our own benefit, as opposed to for the benefit of AGTI. If we determine it to be in the best interests of our stockholders to commercialize these product candidates solely for our own benefit, we may negotiate with AGTI to obtain a license, on terms to be determined, granting us the sole rights to commercialize such product candidates. If we enter into such a license, the future economic benefit to our stockholders from our commercialization of such products, if any, will be diminished by any royalties or other payments paid under a future agreement with AGTI. If we do not enter into such a license, then the future economic benefit to our stockholders from our commercialization of such products on behalf of AGTI would be in the form of a dividend or other payments received in respect of our 80% interest in AGTI. Alternatively, if we determine it to be in the best interests of our stockholders, we may seek to acquire some or all of the interests of the minority stockholders in AGTI for cash, shares of our common stock or other securities in a merger, exchange offer or other transaction. If we acquire all of the interests of the minority stockholders in AGTI, then our stockholders will receive all of the future economic benefit from our commercialization of such products on our own behalf. If we acquire these minority interests, we anticipate that this transaction will result in dilution to our stockholders and will require our incurrence of significant transaction costs, which are currently unknown. On January 13, 2004, we acquired an additional 351,909 shares of AGTI common stock, representing approximately 6% of AGTI’s outstanding common stock, for a total purchase price of approximately $8.8 million, effected through the reduction of inter-company debt, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances, in order to maintain our 80% interest in AGTI. While such valuation was based on a good-faith determination made by the independent and disinterested members of our Board of Directors as of that date, the economic value of the minority stockholders’ interests is difficult to quantify in the absence of a public market. If we acquire all of the interests of the minority stockholders in AGTI, a variety of valuation methodologies may be employed to determine the value per share of AGTI common stock. Factors impacting this valuation would include the progress, likelihood and cost of development and commercialization of product candidates, potential future income streams there from, availability of funding and other factors. If we acquire the minority interests for consideration valued in excess of the value implicitly attributed to such AGTI shares by the market, this could result in a decline in our stock price. If we choose to acquire some or all of these minority interests through a merger in which we do not solicit the consent of the minority stockholders of AGTI, we could become subject to litigation or an appraisal procedure, which would result in additional expense and diversion of management resources. -15- There can be no assurance that we will, at any time, enter into a license with AGTI or acquire some or all of the interests of the minority stockholders in AGTI. If we pursue either of these alternatives, there can be no assurance as to the timing of any such transaction, the form of such transaction, the particular transaction terms such as the form or amount of consideration offered or provided by us, or the consequences of any such proposed or completed transaction to us or the AGTI minority stockholders. Because members of our management team and/or Board of Directors beneficially own a material percentage of the capital stock of our subsidiary, AGTI, and we have agreements with AGTI, there are conflicts of interest present in dealings between ARIAD and AGTI. Four members of our management team and/or Board of Directors own approximately 5.6% of the outstanding capital stock of AGTI. Harvey J. Berger, M.D., our Chairman, and Chief Executive Officer, owns 3.2%, David L. Berstein, Esq., our Senior Vice President and Chief Patent Counsel, owns 0.2%, John D. Iuliucci, Ph.D., our Senior Vice President and Chief Development Officer, owns 0.6% and Jay R. LaMarche, one of our directors, owns 1.6%. These same individuals beneficially own an aggregate of approximately 3.1% of our outstanding common stock. Dr. Stuart L. Schreiber, a Harvard professor who is one of our scientific founders, owns approximately 3.2% of the outstanding capital stock of AGTI. Additionally, Dr. Berger and Mr. LaMarche are the two members comprising the Board of Directors of AGTI. As part of the formation of AGTI, we entered into certain agreements with AGTI to provide for the operations of AGTI. As a result, conflicts of interest exist in dealings between AGTI and us. AGTI is the exclusive licensee of the ARGENT cell-signaling intellectual property from Harvard University and Stanford University and of related technologies from other universities, and owns the intellectual property on our mTOR inhibitors derived from our ARGENT programs, including AP23573, which is in Phase 2 clinical trials for use in cancer and in development for use in drug delivery stents and other medical devices, and our bone-targeted mTOR inhibitors. Because of the apparent conflicts of interest, the market may be more inclined to perceive the terms of any transaction between us and AGTI as being unfair to us. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property relating to our research programs, technologies and products. We and our licensors have issued patents and pending patent applications covering research methods useful in drug discovery, new chemical compounds discovered in our drug discovery programs including, among others, AP23573, certain components, configurations and uses of our cell-signaling regulation technologies and products-in-development, methods and materials for manufacturing our products-in-development and other pharmaceutical products and methods and materials for conducting pharmaceutical research. We have a licensing program to generate revenues from the use of our ARGENT cell-signaling regulation technologies and our NF-kB intellectual property. Pending patent applications may not issue as patents and may not issue in all countries in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products or in countries where others develop, manufacture and sell products using our technologies. In addition, patents issued to us or our licensors may be challenged, as is the case with the Lilly litigation and related PTO proceedings regarding the NF-kB ‘516 Patent, and they may be subsequently narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. In that event, such patents may not afford meaningful protection for our technologies or product candidates, which would materially impact our ability to develop and market our product candidates and to generate licensing revenues from our patent portfolio. Certain technologies utilized in our research and development programs are already in the public domain. Moreover, a number of our competitors have developed technologies, filed patent applications or obtained patents on technologies, compositions and methods of use that are related to our business and may cover or conflict with our patent applications, technologies or product candidates. Such conflicts could limit the scope of the patents that we may be able to obtain or may result in the denial of our patent applications. If a third party were to obtain intellectual proprietary protection for any of the foregoing, we may be required to challenge such protection, terminate or modify our programs impacted by such protection or obtain licenses from such third parties, which might not be available or acceptable terms or at all. -16- We may be unable to develop or commercialize our product candidates, if we are unable to obtain or maintain certain licenses on commercial terms or at all. We have entered, and will continue to enter, into agreements, either directly or through AGTI, with third parties to test compounds, blood and tissue samples, to perform gene expression analysis and to develop biological tests for use with our product candidates, which testing may yield new inventions and discoveries requiring us to obtain licenses in order to exclusively develop or market new products, alone or in combination with our product candidates, or to develop or market our product candidates for new indications. We have also entered into license agreements for some of our technologies, either directly or through AGTI. We use third parties to test blood and tissue samples and other biological materials in our clinical programs and to develop biological tests, with respect to which we may be required to obtain licenses or pay royalties or other fees in order to commercialize such tests for use with our product candidates. We also use gene sequences or proteins encoded by those sequences and other biological materials in each of our research programs which are, or may become, patented by others and to which we would be required to obtain licenses in order to develop or market our product candidates. Manufacturing of our products may also require licensing biological materials, technologies and intellectual property from third parties. Our inability to obtain any one or more of these licenses, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or to circumvent the need for any such license, could cause significant delays and cost increases and materially affect our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates. Obtaining licenses for these discoveries, materials and technologies may require us to make cumulative royalty payments or other payments to several third parties, potentially reducing amounts paid to us or making the cost of our products commercially prohibitive. Some of our licenses obligate us to exercise diligence in pursuing the development of product candidates, to make specified milestone payments and to pay royalties. In some instances, we are responsible for the costs of filing and prosecuting patent applications. These licenses generally expire upon the earlier of a fixed term of years after the date of the license or the expiration of the applicable patents, but each license is also terminable by the other party upon default by us of our obligations. Our inability or failure to meet our diligence requirements or make any payments required under these licenses would result in a reversion to the licensor of the rights granted which, with respect to the licenses pursuant to which we have obtained exclusive rights, would materially and adversely affect our ability to develop and market products based on our licensed technologies. -17- Competing technologies may render some or all of our programs or future products noncompetitive or obsolete. Many well-known pharmaceutical, healthcare and biotechnology companies, academic and research institutions and government agencies, which have substantially greater capital, research and development capabilities and experience than us or our potential partners, are presently engaged in one or more of the following activities: • developing products based on cell signaling, genomics, proteomics, and computational chemistry; • conducting research and development programs for the treatment of the various disease indications in which we are focused; and • manufacturing, promoting, marketing and selling pharmaceutical or medical device products for treatment of diseases in all of the various disease indications in which we or our current or possible future partners are focused. Some of these entities already have competitive products on the market or product candidates in clinical trials or in more advanced preclinical studies than we do. By virtue of having or introducing competitive products on the market before us, these entities may gain a competitive advantage. Competing technologies may render some or all of our programs or future products noncompetitive or obsolete, and we may not be able to make the enhancements to our technology necessary to compete successfully with newly emerging technologies. If we are unable to successfully compete in our chosen markets, we will not become profitable. If our product candidates are not accepted by patients, physicians and insurers, we will not be successful. Our success is dependent on the acceptance of any approved products. Our product candidates may not achieve market acceptance among patients, physicians or third-party payors, even if we obtain necessary regulatory and reimbursement approvals. Physicians and health care payors may conclude that any of our product candidates are not as safe and/or effective as competing therapies or are not as attractive based on a cost/benefit analysis as alternative treatments. Failure to achieve significant market acceptance of our product candidates will harm our business. We believe that recommendations by physicians and health care payors will be essential for market acceptance of any product candidates. If we are unable to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we may be unable to successfully market and sell any products. We are currently establishing a commercial oncology organization, but we have no experience in marketing or selling any products. While we intend to commercialize our product candidates in the United States and to enter into agreements with partner(s) to commercialize our product candidates elsewhere, we may be unable to successfully, directly or indirectly, sell any products that we obtain marketing approval to sell. If we are unable to effectively sell our products, our ability to generate revenues will be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to hire, in a timely manner, the qualified sales and marketing personnel we need, if at all. In addition, we may not be able to enter into any marketing or distribution agreements on acceptable terms, if at all. If we cannot establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities as we intend, either by developing our own capabilities or entering into agreements with third parties, sales of future products, if any, may be harmed. -18- If we develop a product for commercial use, a subsequent product liability-related claim or recall could have an adverse effect on our business. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products. Prior to obtaining regulatory approval to market our products, we are required to test such products in human clinical trials at health care institutions pursuant to agreements which indemnify such institutions in case of harm caused to patients by our products. We may not be able to avoid significant product liability exposure resulting from use of our products. A product liability-related claim or recall could be detrimental to our business. In addition, except for insurance covering product use in our clinical trials, we do not currently have any product liability insurance, and we may not be able to obtain or maintain such insurance on acceptable terms, or we may not be able to obtain any insurance to provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Our inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or limit the commercialization of any products that we develop. Significant additional losses or insufficient funding may cause us to default on certain covenants of our loan documents. At December 31, 2005, we had $7.7 million outstanding under a term loan agreement with a bank, pursuant to which we are required to maintain certain financial and non-financial covenants, including minimum cash, cash equivalents and investments of $13 million, a default of any of which would allow the bank to demand payment of its loan. We currently maintain sufficient liquidity to fund payment of this loan if demand for payment were made. However, if we are unable to raise adequate financing to fund continuing operations or otherwise to refinance our loan, we may not be able to maintain compliance with loan covenants, may be required to pay off the loan and may be required to reduce our spending on operations. Risks Relating to Governmental Approvals We have limited experience in conducting clinical trials, which may cause delays in commencing and completing clinical trials of our product candidates. Clinical trials must meet FDA and foreign regulatory requirements. We have limited experience in designing, conducting and managing the preclinical studies and clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates in any country. We or our collaborative partners may encounter problems in clinical trials that may cause us or the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies to delay, suspend or terminate our clinical trials at any phase. These problems could include the possibility that we may not be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of cGMP materials for use in our clinical trials, conduct clinical trials at our preferred sites, enroll a sufficient number of patients for our clinical trials at one or more sites, or begin or successfully complete clinical trials in a timely fashion, if at all. Furthermore, we, the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may suspend clinical trials of our product candidates at any time if we or they believe the subjects participating in the trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks as a result of adverse events occurring in our trials or if we or they find deficiencies in the clinical trial process or conduct of the investigation. With respect to AP23573, the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may also suspend our clinical trials if we or they believe the subjects participating in the trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks as a result of adverse events occurring in the trials of medical devices delivering AP23573 sponsored by our medical device partner or future partners. If clinical trials of any of our product candidates fail, we will not be able to market the product candidate which is the subject of the failed clinical trials. The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies could also require additional clinical trials before or after granting of marketing approval for any of our products, which would result in increased costs and significant delays in the development and commercialization of our products and could result in the withdrawal of our products from the market after obtaining marketing approval. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a product candidate in clinical development could delay or prevent obtaining marketing approval of the product candidate and, after obtaining marketing approval, data from post-approval studies could result in the product being withdrawn from the market, either of which would likely have a material adverse effect on our business. -19- We may not be able to obtain government regulatory approval to market our product candidates. To date, we have not submitted a marketing application for any product candidate to the FDA or any foreign regulatory agency, and none of our product candidates has been approved for commercialization in any country. Prior to commercialization, each product candidate would be subject to an extensive and lengthy governmental regulatory approval process in the United States and in other countries. We or any prospective partners or our medical device partners may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for any product candidates, or even if approval is obtained, the labeling for such products may place restrictions on their use that could materially impact the marketability and profitability of the product subject to such restrictions. Satisfaction of these regulatory requirements, which includes satisfying the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities that the product is both safe and effective for its intended uses, typically takes several years or more depending upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Uncertainty with respect to meeting the regulatory requirements governing our product candidates may result in excessive costs or extensive delays in the regulatory approval process, adding to the already lengthy review process. If regulatory approval of a product is granted, such approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is proven safe and effective, as demonstrated by clinical trials, and may not include all of the indications necessary to successfully market the product. Even though we have obtained orphan drug designation by the FDA and EMEA for AP23573 in bone and soft-tissue sarcomas, this designation may be challenged by others or may prove to be of no practical benefit. We will not be able to sell our product candidates if we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with FDA manufacturing regulations. Before we can begin to commercially manufacture our product candidates, we must either secure manufacturing in an FDA approved manufacturing facility or obtain regulatory approval of our own manufacturing facility and processes. In addition, the manufacturing of our product candidates must comply with cGMP requirements of the FDA and similar requirements of regulatory agencies in other countries. These requirements govern, among other things, quality control and documentation procedures. We, or any third-party manufacturer of our product candidates, may not be able to comply with these requirements, which would prevent us from selling such products. Material changes to the manufacturing processes of our products after approvals have been granted are also subject to review and approval by the FDA or other regulatory agencies. Post approval, such facilities are subject to continuing FDA and foreign regulatory inspections and failure to comply with cGMPs or similar regulations can result in regulatory action up to and including cessation of shipment of product. Even if we bring products to market, we may be unable to effectively price our products or obtain adequate reimbursement for sales of our products, which would prevent our products from becoming profitable. If we succeed in bringing any product candidates to the market, they may not be considered cost-effective, and coverage and adequate payments may not be available or may not be sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a competitive basis. In both the United States and elsewhere, sales of medical products and treatments are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors, such as health maintenance organizations and other private insurance plans and governmental programs such as Medicare. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for pharmaceutical products and services. Our business is affected by the efforts of government and third-party payors to contain or reduce the cost of health care through various means. In the United States, there have been and will continue to be a number of federal and state proposals to implement government controls on pricing. Similar government pricing controls exist in varying degrees in other countries. In addition, the emphasis on managed care in the United States has increased and will continue to increase the pressure on the pricing of pharmaceutical products. We cannot predict whether any legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted or the effect these proposals or managed care efforts may have on our business. -20- Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Results of our operations, general market conditions for biotechnology stocks and other factors could result in the sudden change in the value of our stock. As a biopharmaceutical company, we have experienced significant volatility in our common stock. In 2005, our stock price ranged from a high of $8.75 to a low of $5.23. Factors that can contribute to such volatility may include: results and timing of preclinical studies and clinical trials; evidence of the safety or efficacy of pharmaceutical products; decisions by regulatory agencies that impact or may impact our product candidates; the results and timing of efforts by our partner or future partners to develop stents or other medical devices to deliver AP23573; announcements of new collaborations; announcements of new equity or debt financings; failure to enter into collaborations; our funding requirements; announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic products; developments relating to intellectual property rights, including licensing, litigation and governmental regulation and, in particular, our litigation with Lilly in the U.S. District Court and reexamination proceedings in the PTO with respect to the ‘516 Patent; healthcare or cost-containment legislation; general market trends for the biotechnology industry and related high-technology industries; the impact of exchange rates for the U.S. dollar; the impact of changing interest rates and policies of the Federal Reserve; and public policy pronouncements. These and other factors could have a significant impact on the value and volatility of our common stock in future periods. Raising additional capital by issuing securities or through collaboration and licensing arrangements may cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. We may seek the additional capital necessary to fund our operations through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, and collaboration and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders’ ownership interest will be diluted, and the terms of such securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect our stockholders’ rights. Under an existing loan agreement with a bank, we are required to maintain certain financial and non-financial covenants, including covenants limiting or restricting our ability to incur additional debt or declare dividends. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have received no written comments from the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which comments remain unresolved. -21- ITEM 