ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS THE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES DESCRIBED BELOW ARE THOSE THAT WE CURRENTLY BELIEVE MAY MATERIALLY AFFECT OUR COMPANY. ADDITIONAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES THAT WE ARE UNAWARE OF ALSO MAY BECOME IMPORTANT FACTORS THAT AFFECT OUR COMPANY. IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING RISKS ACTUALLY OCCUR, THEY MAY MATERIALLY HARM OUR BUSINESS, OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Risks Relating to Our Business We have only one product candidate in clinical trials, AP23573, and we and our partners may never succeed in developing marketable products or generating product revenues. We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery and development of drugs to provide therapeutic intervention in treating human diseases at the cellular level. As with all scientific endeavors, we face much trial and error, and we may fail at numerous stages along the way, which would inhibit us from successfully developing, manufacturing and marketing our drug candidates. Our lead product candidate, AP23573, is currently being developed by us for cancer indications and by our partner, Medinol, for use in stents or other medical devices to reduce reblockage of injured arteries following stent-assisted angioplasty. AP23573 is currently in Phase 1b and 2 clinical trials for certain cancers, and we expect to start a Phase 3 clinical trial of AP23573 in 2007 for bone and soft tissue sarcomas. Other than AP23573, we do not currently have any products on the market and have no product revenues. Therefore, our near-term success is substantially dependent on our ability to obtain marketing approval for AP23573 for cancer and the ability of our partner, Medinol, to obtain marketing approval for its stents delivering AP23573. We plan to conduct our initial Phase 3 clinical trial of AP23573 through the Sarcoma Alliance for Research through Collaboration, or SARC, in cooperation with the Soft Tissue and Bone Sarcoma Group of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer, or EORTC. We will be dependent upon the success of SARC and EORTC in conducting certain key activities for our Phase 3 trial, which may include submitting regulatory filings and participating in meetings with regulatory agencies, forming advisory committees, enlisting trial sites and securing patient enrollment, and entering into agreements with contract research organziations to support the trial. SARC has limited personnel, funding and resources, and has not sponsored a pivotal trial of any drug. While we are in negotiations with SARC relative to the terms under which we will agree to provide AP23573 and funding for SARC to conduct our Phase 3 trial, there can be no assurance that we will enter into an agreeement with SARC on terms acceptable to us or at all. If SARC is unsuccessful in conducting our clinical trial or if we do not reach agreement with SARC for the conduct of such trial and we are not able to conduct our clinical trial ourselves or with our potential partner(s), we may be required to delay, alter, or abandon our plans to pursue our Phase 3 clinical trial in sarcoma, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate product revenues for AP23573 in the near term or at all. We have not submitted any new drug applications for AP23573 or any other product candidate to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities for marketing approval. Factors which would affect our ability to obtain regulatory approval and to achieve market acceptance and gain market share for AP23573 and future product candidates include, among other factors, product formulation, dose, dosage regimen, our ability to obtain timely and sufficient patient enrollment in our clinical trials, the risk of occurrence of adverse side effects in patients participating in clinical trials, our ability to manufacture, directly or indirectly, sufficient and cost-effective quantities of our product candidates, our ability to fund commercial development and to build or access a sales force in the marketplace, our ability to successfully differentiate our product candidates from competitive product(s) and to sell, market and distribute, directly or indirectly, such product candidates. We and our medical device partner have limited experience in designing, conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain such regulatory approval. Additionally, although we are in negotiations to secure one or more partners, we do not currently have any partners to assist in developing and commercializing our cancer product candidates. We expect to be dependent upon such partners, if we are able to enter into arrangements with one or more of them, to successfully develop and commercialize such cancer products outside the United States. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure any such partners on terms favorable to us, or at all, and failure to secure one or more partners to assist in development and commercialization of AP23573 would have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate significant product revenues for AP23573. - 13 - We are also dependent upon the success of Medinol and any future medical device partners to develop, manufacture and market stents or other medical devices to deliver AP23573 to reduce reblockage of injured arteries following stent-assisted angioplasty. To date, we have entered into only one such agreement, with Medinol. If Medinol is not successful and/or if we are not able to enter into agreements with additional medical device companies experienced in the development, manufacture, and marketing of medical devices to deliver AP23573, we will not be able to generate revenues from the marketing of stents or other medical devices that deliver AP23573. We do not expect to have any products on the market before 2010, at the earliest, and, ultimately, we and our partners may not have any products on the market for several years, if at all. We and our partners may not succeed in developing or commercializing any products which will generate product revenues for our company. If we and our partners are not successful in developing or marketing AP23573 or other product candidates, we will not be profitable. Insufficient funding may jeopardize our research and development programs and may require us to reduce our operations or prevent commercialization of our products and technologies. We have funded our operations to date through sales of equity securities, debt and, to a limited extent, operating revenues. Most of our operating revenue to date has been generated through previous collaborative research and development agreements and existing licenses. Other than our $50 million equity financing commitment from Azimuth Opportunity Ltd., we currently do not have any other committed funding from any pharmaceutical or biotechnology company or other source to advance any of our product development programs. Although we believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities should be sufficient to satisfy our capital and operating requirements approximately through the third quarter of 2007, we will require substantial additional funding for our research and development programs (including pre-clinical development and clinical trials), for operating expenses (including intellectual property protection and enforcement), for the pursuit of regulatory approvals and for establishing or accessing manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities. We may from time to time access funding from our $50 million equity financing facility which could extend the sufficiency of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities to at least mid-2008. While we intend to seek additional funding from product-based collaborations, technology licensing, and public or private financings, and are currently in negotiations with several companies for a partnership to develop and commercialize AP23573, such additional funding may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Accordingly, we may not be able to secure the significant funding which is required to maintain our operations or continue to fund each of our research and development programs at their current levels or at levels that may be required in the future. If we cannot secure adequate financing, we may be required to reduce our operations, to delay, scale back, eliminate or terminate clinical trials and/or seeking marketing approval for AP23573 for one or more indications, to delay, scale back or eliminate clinical trials for AP24534 or one or more of our other research and development programs, or to enter into licenses, settlements or other arrangements with third parties on terms that may be unfavorable to us to purchase, commercialize or otherwise obtain rights in our products, technologies or intellectual property. We have incurred significant losses to date and may never be profitable. We have incurred significant operating losses in each year since our formation in 1991 and have an accumulated deficit of $309.0 million through December 31, 2006. Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in research and development of our product candidates, including clinical development of AP23573, our lead product candidate, and from general and administrative costs, including costs incurred to prosecute and protect our intellectual property, associated with our operations. It is likely that we will incur significant operating losses for the foreseeable future, and we expect such losses to increase as we advance AP23573 into our initial Phase 3 clinical trial in 2007 and begin to build a sales and marketing organization in anticipation of obtaining regulatory approval to market AP23573, which approval may never occur. We currently have no product revenues, limited license revenues and limited - 14 - commitments for future licensing revenues, and may not be able to generate such revenues in the future. If our losses continue and we and our existing partner or potential future partners are unable to successfully develop, commercialize, manufacture and market our product candidates and/or we are unable to enter into agreements and licenses of our intellectual property, we may never generate sufficient revenues to achieve profitability. Even if we and our partners are able to commercialize products and we are able to enter into agreements or licenses in the future, we may never generate sufficient revenues to have profitable operations. We have limited manufacturing experience and are dependent upon the ability of third parties to manufacture our product candidates, which raises uncertainty as to our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates. We have no experience in manufacturing any of our product candidates on a large scale and have contracted or are contracting with third party manufacturers of AP23573 to provide material for clinical trials and potential commercial launch, and to assist in the development and optimization of our manufacturing processes and methods. Our ability to conduct clinical trials and commercialize our product candidates will depend on the ability of such third parties to manufacture our products on a large scale at a competitive cost and in accordance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs, and other regulatory requirements. If we are not able to obtain contract manufacturing on commercially reasonable terms, obtain or develop the necessary materials and technologies for manufacturing, or obtain intellectual property rights necessary for manufacturing, or if our contract manufacturers fail to provide us with the quantities and quality of the products we require in a timely manner, we may not be able to conduct or complete clinical trials or commercialize our product candidates. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such requisite terms, materials, technologies and intellectual property necessary to successfully manufacture our product candidates for clinical trials or commercialization. We will continue to expend significant resources on the enforcement and licensing of our NF-κB patent portfolio and may be unable to generate material revenues from these efforts if we are unable to enforce against, or license our NF-κB patents to, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. We are the exclusive licensee of a family of patents, three in the U.S. and one in Europe, including a pioneering U.S. patent covering methods of treating human disease by regulating NF-κB cell-signaling activity, hereinafter referred to as the ’516 Patent, awarded to a team of inventors from The Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard University. Dr. David Baltimore, the former president of the California Institute of Technology and one of our consultants and scientific founders, is a lead inventor of the’516 Patent and a member of the board of directors of Amgen Inc. We have a licensing program to generate revenues from the discovery, development, manufacture and sale of products covered by our NF-κB patent portfolio. These patents have been, and in the future may be, challenged and may be subsequently narrowed, invalidated, declared unenforceable or circumvented, any of which could materially impact our ability to generate licensing revenues from them. We are currently engaged in two litigations concerning the ‘516 patent. Together with the academic institutions, we filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts, against Eli Lilly and Company, alleging infringement of certain claims of the ’516 Patent through sales of Lilly’s osteoporosis drug, Evista®, and its septic shock drug, Xigris®, and we are the defendant in a lawsuit filed by Amgen Inc. and certain affiliated entities in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware seeking a declaratory judgment that each of the claims contained in the ’516 Patent is invalid and that Amgen has not infringed any of the claims of the ’516 Patent based on activities related to Amgen’s products, Enbrel® and Kineret®. In addition, upon requests filed by Lilly and by a third party, the PTO is - 15 - reexamining the patentability of certain claims of the ’516 Patent in reexamination proceedings that are currently pending. See a description of the status of these matters in the section entitled “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot provide any assurance that other third parties, who may be infringing our NF-κB patents, will not seek to initiate similar, further proceedings for declaratory relief or reexamination with regard to the ’516 Patent or other NF-κB patents. As exclusive licensee of the ’516 Patent, we are obligated for the costs expended for its prosecution in the PTO, for its enforcement in the above noted litigations and otherwise. Therefore, we will continue to expend significant capital and management resources pursuing these matters in court and in the reexamination process in the PTO, and the outcome is uncertain. If some of the claims of the ’516 Patent are invalidated by the PTO or in the courts or found not to be infringed in these matters, we will not realize any revenues on sales of the above-named products, and could be liable under certain limited circumstances in the Lilly litigation for litigation costs and potentially attorneys’ fees. Additionally, although we have prevailed in the jury trial in the Lilly litigation, the damages awarded to us and the other Plaintiffs could be subsequently eliminated or limited by an adverse finding by the judge in the U.S. District Court in her ruling following the bench trial, upon appeal, or in the event that the claims of the ’516 Patent are invalidated by the PTO. Invalidation of any of the claims of the ’516 Patent in litigation or by the PTO or in the courts would have a significant adverse impact on our ability to generate revenues from our NF-κB licensing program from any potential licensee. Moreover, significant expenditures to enforce these patent rights, particularly with respect to the pending litigation initiated by Amgen, without generating revenues or accessing additional capital or other funding, could adversely impact our ability to further our clinical programs and our research and development programs at the current levels or at levels that may be required in the future. Because we do not own all of the outstanding stock of our subsidiary, AGTI, we will not realize all of the potential future economic benefit from products developed based on technology licensed to or owned by AGTI. Our 80%-owned subsidiary, AGTI, holds licenses from Harvard University, Stanford University and other universities relating to the ARGENT cell-signaling regulation technology, and owns the intellectual property on mTOR inhibitors derived from the ARGENT programs, including AP23573. The two directors of AGTI, Harvey J. Berger, M.D., our Chief Executive Officer, and Jay R. LaMarche, our former Chief Financial Officer, are also members of our Board of Directors. Minority stockholders of AGTI, including Harvard University, Stanford University, Dr. Berger, Mr. LaMarche, several of our scientific advisors, and several other current and former members of our management own 20% of the issued and outstanding common stock of AGTI. We do not have a license agreement with AGTI that provides us with rights to commercialize product candidates based on the ARGENT cell-signaling regulation technology or mTOR inhibitors derived from AGTI’s programs, solely for our benefit, as opposed to the benefit of AGTI. All of the research and development activities of AGTI, including the development of AP23573, have been conducted by us on behalf of AGTI pursuant to a research and development agreement. The purpose of the agreement is to allow AGTI to develop products based on its technology, and AGTI owns all improvements to its technology developed by us. The agreement provides that, upon demand by us, AGTI will either advance funds to us or reimburse us, on a cost plus 10% basis, for all funds advanced by us associated with the cost of our research and development activities on its behalf. However, AGTI has no independent funding or capital resources, and we have funded all research and development services on AGTI’s behalf since its inception in 1994. As a result, we have accrued an inter-company receivable totaling approximately $182 million as of December 31, 2006, of which approximately $109 million has been accrued since January 1, 2003, as we have advanced the clinical development of AP23573. - 16 - The inter-company receivable on our books and records and the related payable on the books of AGTI are eliminated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in our consolidated financial statements. We expect our inter-company receivable from AGTI to continue to increase significantly as we seek to further advance the development of AP23573. In addition, we have spent approximately $4.8 million through December 31, 2006, and expect to spend significant additional amounts, on pre-launch and other commercialization-related activities for AP23573. The research and development agreement does not provide a mechanism for establishing a marketing plan or for the reimbursement by AGTI to us of such expenditures. Other than repayment of the amounts advanced by us on a cost plus 10% fee basis, we are not entitled to receive from AGTI any rights or other remuneration under the research and development agreement, and, accordingly, our future economic benefit from the commercialization of such products on behalf of AGTI will only be in the form of dividends or other payments received in respect of our 80% ownership interest in AGTI. Consequently, as the inter-company receivable has increased to fund the development of AP23573, in order to maximize the value of ARIAD for our stockholders and to mitigate or eliminate the conflicts of interest which currently exist between ARIAD and AGTI, the independent members of our Board of Directors (all of ARIAD’s Board members other than Dr. Berger and Mr. LaMarche) are currently engaged in evaluating a variety of strategic alternatives with respect to acquiring the 20% minority interest of AGTI that we do not own and have hired independent legal counsel and financial consultants to assist them in their evaluation. Considerations being taken into account by the independent members of the Board in determining whether to acquire the 20% minority interest include the significant increase in our receivable from AGTI, which is expected to continue to increase significantly, the expectation that the perceived value of the 20% minority interest of AGTI will likely increase as the clinical development of AP23573 progresses, the conflicts of interest that exist between ARIAD and AGTI, and the fact that we advance 100% of the research and development costs for AP23573 to AGTI but are only entitled to receive reimbursement of costs plus a 10% fee, together with whatever benefit may be received through our 80% ownership of AGTI. We anticipate that in the context of valuing the 20% minority interest in AGTI for purposes of a possible acquisition of the stock of the minority shareholders, the inter-company receivable from AGTI will be taken into consideration. If ARIAD’s independent and disinterested directors determine it to be in the best interests of ARIAD’s stockholders to commercialize these product candidates solely for ARIAD’s own benefit, ARIAD may seek to negotiate with AGTI and/or its minority stockholders to obtain a license, on terms to be determined, granting ARIAD the sole rights to commercialize such product candidates and technologies. If we were to enter into such a license, the future economic benefit to ARIAD from the commercialization of such products, if any, will be diminished by any royalties or other payments paid under a future agreement with AGTI. If ARIAD does not enter into such a license, then the future economic benefit to ARIAD from the commercialization of such products on behalf of AGTI will only be in the form of dividends or other payments received in respect of ARIAD’s 80% ownership interest in AGTI. Alternatively, if ARIAD’s independent and disinterested directors determine it to be in the best interests of ARIAD’s stockholders, ARIAD may seek to acquire some or all of the interests of the minority stockholders in AGTI for cash, shares of ARIAD’s common stock, or other securities in a merger, exchange offer or other transaction. If ARIAD acquires all of the interests of the minority stockholders in AGTI, then ARIAD will receive all of the future economic benefit from the commercialization of such products on its own behalf to the extent that the securities or other consideration exchanged by ARIAD in the transaction do not entitle the minority stockholders of AGTI to continue to receive payments on a contingent and/or installment basis. If ARIAD acquires these minority interests, we anticipate that this transaction will require the incurrence of significant transaction costs, which are currently unknown, and if the consideration exchanged for these minority interests is in the form of equity of ARIAD, we anticipate that this transaction will result in dilution to ARIAD’s stockholders. On January 13, 2004, ARIAD acquired an additional 351,909 shares of AGTI common stock, representing approximately 6% of - 17 - AGTI’s outstanding common stock, for a total purchase price of approximately $8.8 million, effected through the reduction of inter-company debt, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances, in order to maintain ARIAD’s 80% interest in AGTI. While such valuation was recommended by the Company and approved based on a good-faith determination made by the independent and disinterested members of ARIAD’s Board of Directors as of that date, the economic value of the minority stockholders’ interests is difficult to quantify in the absence of a public market. If ARIAD acquires all of the interests of the minority stockholders in AGTI, a variety of valuation methodologies may be employed to determine the value per share of AGTI common stock. Factors impacting this valuation would include the progress, likelihood and cost of development and commercialization of AP23573 and other product candidates and technologies, potential future income streams there from, availability of funding and other factors. If ARIAD acquires the minority interests for consideration valued in excess of the value implicitly attributed to such AGTI shares by the market, which implicit value is difficult to determine, this could result in a decline in ARIAD’s stock price. If ARIAD chooses to acquire some or all of these minority interests through a merger in which ARIAD does not solicit the consent of the minority stockholders of AGTI, ARIAD could become subject to litigation or an appraisal procedure, which would result in additional expense and diversion of management resources. As noted above, the independent and disinterested members of ARIAD’s Board of Directors have engaged legal counsel and financial consultants to help them evaluate strategic alternatives with respect to acquiring the 20% minority interest of AGTI that ARIAD does not own, and ARIAD’s independent and disinterested directors may engage other advisors to assist them with such evaluation. While this evaluation is currently ongoing, there can be no assurance that ARIAD will, at any time, enter into a transaction with AGTI as a result of this evaluation. If any of these strategic options is pursued as a result of the evaluation by ARIAD’s independent and disinterested directors, there can be no assurance as to the timing of any such transaction, the form of such transaction, the particular transaction terms such as the form, amount or timing of payment of consideration offered or provided by ARIAD to the minority stockholders in AGTI, ARIAD’s ability to effectuate any such transaction, or the consequences of any such proposed or completed transaction to ARIAD or the AGTI minority stockholders. Because members of ARIAD’s management team and/or Board of Directors beneficially own a material percentage of the capital stock of its subsidiary, AGTI, and ARIAD has agreements with AGTI, there are conflicts of interest present in dealings between ARIAD and AGTI. Four members of ARIAD’s management team and/or Board of Directors own approximately 5.6% of the outstanding capital stock of AGTI. Harvey J. Berger, M.D., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, owns 3.2%, David L. Berstein, Esq., Senior Vice President and Chief Patent Counsel, owns 0.2%, John D. Iuliucci, Ph.D., Senior Vice President and Chief Development Officer, owns 0.6% and Jay R. LaMarche, one of ARIAD’s directors and former Chief Financial Officer, owns 1.6%. These same individuals beneficially own an aggregate of approximately 3.1% of ARIAD’s outstanding common stock. Dr. Stuart L. Schreiber, a Harvard professor who is one of our scientific founders, owns approximately 3.2% of the outstanding capital stock of AGTI. Dr. David Baltimore, the former president of the California Institute of Technology and one of our consultants and scientific founders, owns approximately 0.06% of the capital stock of AGTI. Additionally, Dr. Berger and Mr. LaMarche are the two ARIAD board members who are also the sole members of the Board of Directors of AGTI. All of the research and development activities of AGTI, including the development of AP23573, have been conducted by us on behalf of AGTI pursuant to a research and development agreement. As a result, conflicts of interest exist in dealings between AGTI and ARIAD, including those relating to allocation of funds and resources between ARIAD and AGTI and the prioritization of research and development programs. In addition, these conflicts of interest create the risk that any transaction between ARIAD and AGTI will not provide terms as favorable to ARIAD as could be achieved in an arms-length negotiation. Moreover, even if the conflicts of interest do not influence a particular transaction between ARIAD and AGTI, because of the apparent conflicts of interest, the market may be more inclined to perceive the terms of any transaction between ARIAD and AGTI as being unfair to ARIAD. - 18 - The loss of key members of our scientific and management staff could delay and may prevent the achievement of our research, development and business objectives. Our performance as a specialized scientific business is substantially dependent on our key officers and members of our scientific staff responsible for areas such as drug development, clinical trials, regulatory affairs, drug discovery, manufacturing, marketing, business development and intellectual property protection and licensing. We also are dependent upon a few of our scientific advisors to assist in formulating our research and development strategy. While we have entered into employment agreements with all of our executive officers, these officers may terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of, and failure to promptly replace, any member of our management team could significantly delay and may prevent the achievement of our research, development and business objectives. We are dependent upon the ability of our medical device partner and potential additional partners to develop, manufacture, test and market stents or other medical devices to deliver AP23573. We have no experience in the development of medical devices and do not intend ourselves to develop stents or other medical devices to deliver AP23573. Instead, we have granted one license and, under that license agreement, we may grant up to two additional licenses, under our rights to AP23573 to medical device companies for their use in developing and commercializing such medical devices to reduce blockage of injured vessels following stent-assisted angioplasty. While we expect to supply AP23573 to our medical device partner and any additional partners, we will be otherwise dependent upon them to develop and commercialize stents or other medical devices to deliver AP23573. Such medical device partners will have various degrees of scientific, technical, medical and regulatory experience and resources to, directly or through third parties, develop, manufacture, test or market stents or other medical devices to deliver AP23573. Their ability to conduct clinical trials and commercialize such medical devices will be dependent on the safety profile of AP23573 and our ability to manufacture and supply AP23573, either directly or through third parties, at a competitive cost and in accordance with cGMPs and other regulatory requirements. We depend upon third-party manufacturers or collaborative partners for the production of AP23573 for clinical trials and intend to use third-party manufacturers to produce AP23573 on a commercial scale. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers and their potential inability to meet our supply commitments to one or more of our partners could adversely impact the ability of our partners to commercialize stents or other medical devices to deliver AP23573. We anticipate that our partners will seek to develop and commercialize stents or other medical devices to deliver AP23573 that do not infringe third-party patents. However, there can be no assurance that the devices delivering AP23573 marketed by our partners will not be subject to third-party claims. Furthermore, the patents issued to us or our partners covering AP23573 and/or medical devices, including stents, may be subject to challenge and may be subsequently narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. Either such event would adversely impact the ability of one or more of our partners to market their stents or other medical devices to deliver AP23573. Our existing license agreement with Medinol allows either party to terminate under certain circumstances, including Medinol’s reasonable business judgment that development of a medical device to deliver AP23573 is not feasible. Accordingly, Medinol may be unable to develop a medical device to deliver AP23573 and we may also not be able to enter into any additional licensing agreements with any other medical device companies to develop such devices on terms which are acceptable to us, or at all. Our inability to enter into such transactions, or the inability of one or more of our partners to develop or commercialize stents or other medical devices to deliver AP23573 for any reason, will adversely impact our ability to generate revenues from any licenses of AP23573. - 19 - We may not be able to protect our intellectual property relating to our research programs, technologies and product candidates. We and our licensors have issued patents and pending patent applications covering research methods useful in drug discovery, new chemical compounds discovered in our drug discovery programs including, among others, AP23573, certain components, configurations and uses of our cell-signaling regulation technologies and products-in-development, methods and materials for manufacturing our products-in-development and other pharmaceutical products and methods and materials for conducting pharmaceutical research. We have a licensing program to generate revenues from the use of our ARGENT cell-signaling regulation technologies and our NF-κB intellectual property. Pending patent applications may not issue as patents and may not issue in all countries in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products or in countries where others develop, manufacture and sell products using our technologies. In addition, patents issued to us or our licensors may be challenged, as is the case with the Lilly litigation and related PTO proceedings and the Amgen litigation regarding the NF- κB’516 Patent, and they may be subsequently narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. In that event, such patents may not afford meaningful protection for our technologies or product candidates, which would materially impact our ability to develop and market our product candidates and to generate licensing revenues from our patent portfolio. Certain technologies utilized in our research and development programs are already in the public domain. Moreover, a number of our competitors have developed technologies, filed patent applications or obtained patents on technologies, compositions and methods of use that are related to our business and may cover or conflict with our patent applications, technologies or product candidates. Such conflicts could limit the scope of the patents that we may be able to obtain or may result in the denial of our patent applications. If a third party were to obtain intellectual property protection for any of the foregoing, we may be required to challenge such protection, terminate or modify our programs impacted by such protection or obtain licenses from such third parties, which might not be available or acceptable terms or at all. Also, if a third party were to introduce a product into the market which we believe infringes our patents, we may be required to enforce our patent rights or seek to obtain an injunction or other relief, which could be time consuming or expensive. We may be unable to develop or commercialize our product candidates if we are unable to obtain or maintain certain licenses on commercial terms or at all. We have entered, and will continue to enter, into agreements, either directly or through AGTI, with third parties to test compounds, blood and tissue samples, to perform gene expression analysis and to develop biological tests for use with our product candidates, which testing may yield new inventions and discoveries requiring us to obtain licenses in order to exclusively develop or market new products, alone or in combination with our product candidates, or to develop or market our product candidates for new indications. We have also entered into license agreements for some of our technologies, either directly or through AGTI. We use third parties to test blood and tissue samples and other biological materials in our clinical programs and to develop biological tests, with respect to which we may be required to obtain licenses or pay royalties or other fees in order to commercialize such tests for use with our product candidates. We also use gene sequences or proteins encoded by those sequences and other biological materials in each of our research programs which are, or may become, patented by others and to which we would be required to obtain licenses in order to develop or market our product candidates. Manufacturing and/or use of our products may also require licensing biological materials, technologies and intellectual property from third parties. Our inability to obtain any one or more of these licenses, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or to circumvent the need for any such license, could cause significant delays and cost increases and materially affect our ability to develop and commercialize or prevent us from developing and commercializing our product candidates. Obtaining licenses for these discoveries, materials and technologies may require us to make cumulative royalty payments or other payments to several third parties, potentially reducing amounts paid to us or making the cost of our products commercially prohibitive. - 20 - Some of our licenses obligate us to exercise diligence in pursuing the development of product candidates, to make specified milestone payments and to pay royalties. In some instances, we are responsible for the costs of filing and prosecuting patent applications and actions to enforce our rights against infringers. These licenses generally expire upon the earlier of a fixed term of years after the date of the license or the expiration of the applicable patents, but each license is also terminable by the other party upon default by us of our obligations. Our inability or failure to meet our diligence requirements or make any payments required under these licenses would result in a reversion to the licensor of the rights granted which, with respect to the licenses pursuant to which we have obtained exclusive rights, would materially and adversely affect our ability to develop and market products based on our licensed technologies. Competing technologies may render some or all of our programs or future products noncompetitive or obsolete. Many well-known pharmaceutical, healthcare and biotechnology companies, academic and research institutions and government agencies, which have substantially greater capital, research and development capabilities and experience than us or our potential partners, are presently engaged in one or more of the following activities: · developing products based on cell signaling, genomics, proteomics, and computational chemistry; · conducting research and development programs for the treatment of the various disease indications in which we are focused; and · manufacturing, promoting, marketing and selling pharmaceutical or medical device products for treatment of diseases in all of the various disease indications in which we or our current or possible future partners are focused. Some of these entities already have competitive products on the market or product candidates in clinical trials or in more advanced preclinical studies than we do. Many of these entities also have substantially greater research, development, manufacturing and marketing resources and experience than us. In particular, we are aware that Wyeth and Novartis have mTOR inhibitors in Phase 3 clinical trials which are competitive with AP23573, our lead product candidate. Additionally, PharmaMar and its partner, Johnson & Johnson, have a marine derived antitumoral agent currently under registration for the treatment of soft tissue sarcomas. By virtue of having or introducing competitive products on the market before us, these entities may gain a competitive advantage. Competing technologies may render some or all of our programs or future products noncompetitive or obsolete, and we may not be able to make the enhancements to our technology necessary to compete successfully with newly emerging technologies. If we are unable to successfully compete in our chosen markets, we will not become profitable. If our product candidates are not accepted by patients, physicians and insurers, we will not be successful. Our success is dependent on the acceptance of any approved products. Our product candidates may not achieve market acceptance among patients, physicians or third-party payors, even if we obtain necessary regulatory and reimbursement approvals. Physicians and health care payors may conclude that any of our product candidates are not as safe and/or effective as competing therapies or are not as attractive based on a cost/benefit analysis as alternative treatments. Failure to achieve significant market acceptance of our product candidates will harm our business. We believe that recommendations by physicians and health care payors will be essential for market acceptance of any product candidates. - 21 - If we are unable to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we may be unable to successfully market and sell any products. We are currently establishing a commercial oncology organization, but we have no experience in marketing or selling any products. While we intend to commercialize our product candidates in the United States and to enter into agreements with partner(s) to commercialize our product candidates elsewhere, we may be unable to successfully, directly or indirectly, sell any products that we obtain marketing approval to sell. If we are unable to effectively sell our products, our ability to generate revenues will be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to hire, in a timely manner, the qualified sales and marketing personnel we need, if at all. In addition, we may not be able to enter into any marketing or distribution agreements on acceptable terms, if at all. If we cannot establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities as we intend, either by developing our own capabilities or entering into agreements with third parties, sales of future products, if any, may be harmed. If we develop a product for commercial use, a subsequent product liability-related claim or recall could have an adverse effect on our business. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products. Prior to obtaining regulatory approval to market our products, we are required to test such products in human clinical trials at health care institutions pursuant to agreements which indemnify such institutions in case of harm caused to patients by our products. We may not be able to avoid significant product liability exposure resulting from use of our products. A product liability-related claim or recall could be detrimental to our business. In addition, except for insurance covering product use in our clinical trials, we do not currently have any product liability insurance, and we may not be able to obtain or maintain such insurance on acceptable terms, or we may not be able to obtain any insurance to provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities, including liabilities arising from our clinical trials. Our inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or limit the commercialization of any products that we develop. Significant additional losses or insufficient funding may cause us to default on certain covenants of our loan documents. At December 31, 2006, we had $5.7 million outstanding under a term loan agreement with a bank, pursuant to which we are required to maintain certain financial and non-financial covenants, including minimum cash, cash equivalents and investments of $13 million, a default of any of which would allow the bank to demand payment of its loan. We currently have sufficient liquidity to fund payment of this loan if demand for payment were made. In addition, we have a commitment for $50 million of equity financing which we can access, subject to certain terms and conditions. However, if we are unable to raise adequate financing to fund continuing operations or otherwise to refinance our loan, we may not be able to maintain compliance with loan covenants, may be required to pay off the loan and may be required to reduce our spending on operations. Risks Relating to Governmental Approvals We have limited experience in conducting clinical trials, which may cause delays in commencing and completing clinical trials of our product candidates. Clinical trials must meet FDA and foreign regulatory requirements. We have limited experience in designing, conducting and managing the preclinical studies and clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates in any country. We or our collaborative partners may encounter problems in clinical trials that may cause us or the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies to delay, suspend or terminate our clinical trials at any phase. These problems could include the possibility that we may not be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of cGMP materials for use in our clinical trials, conduct clinical - 22 - trials at our preferred sites, enroll a sufficient number of patients for our clinical trials at one or more sites, or begin or successfully complete clinical trials in a timely fashion, if at all. Furthermore, we, the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may suspend clinical trials of our product candidates at any time if we or they believe the subjects participating in the trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks as a result of adverse events occurring in our trials or if we or they find deficiencies in the clinical trial process or conduct of the investigation. With respect to AP23573, the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may also suspend our clinical trials if we or they believe the subjects participating in the trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks as a result of adverse events occurring in the trials of medical devices delivering AP23573 sponsored by our medical device partner or future partners. If clinical trials of any of our product candidates fail, we will not be able to market the product candidate which is the subject of the failed clinical trials. The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies could also require additional clinical trials before or after granting of marketing approval for any of our products, which would result in increased costs and significant delays in the development and commercialization of our products and could result in the withdrawal of our products from the market after obtaining marketing approval. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a product candidate in clinical development could delay or prevent obtaining marketing approval of the product candidate and, after obtaining marketing approval, data from post-approval studies could result in the product being withdrawn from the market, either of which would likely have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to obtain government regulatory approval to market our product candidates. To date, we have not submitted a marketing application for any product candidate to the FDA or any foreign regulatory agency, and none of our product candidates has been approved for commercialization in any country. Prior to commercialization, each product candidate will be subject to an extensive and lengthy governmental regulatory approval process in the United States and in other countries. We or any prospective partners or our medical device partner or future partners may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for any product candidates, or even if approval is obtained, the labeling for such products may place restrictions on their use that could materially impact the marketability and profitability of the product subject to such restrictions. Satisfaction of these regulatory requirements, which includes satisfying the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities that the product is both safe and effective for its intended uses, typically takes several years or more depending upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Uncertainty with respect to meeting the regulatory requirements governing our product candidates may result in excessive costs or extensive delays in the regulatory approval process, adding to the already lengthy review process. If regulatory approval of a product is granted, such approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is proven safe and effective, as demonstrated by clinical trials, and may not include all of the indications necessary to successfully market the product. Even though we have obtained orphan drug designation by the FDA and EMEA for AP23573 in bone and soft-tissue sarcomas, this designation may be challenged by others or may prove to be of no practical benefit. We will not be able to sell our product candidates if we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with FDA manufacturing regulations. Before we can begin to commercially manufacture our product candidates, we must either secure manufacturing in an FDA approved manufacturing facility or obtain regulatory approval of our own manufacturing facility and processes. In addition, the manufacturing of our product candidates must comply with cGMP requirements of the FDA and similar requirements of regulatory agencies in other countries. These requirements govern, among other things, quality control and documentation procedures. We, or any third-party manufacturer of our product candidates, may not be able to comply with these requirements, which would prevent us from selling such products. Material changes to the manufacturing processes of our products after approvals have been granted are also subject to review and approval by the FDA or other regulatory agencies. Post approval, such facilities are subject to continuing FDA and foreign regulatory inspections and failure to comply with cGMPs or similar regulations can result in regulatory action up to and including cessation of shipment of product. - 23 - Even if we bring products to market, we may be unable to effectively price our products or obtain adequate reimbursement for sales of our products, which would prevent our products from becoming profitable. If we succeed in bringing any product candidates to the market, they may not be considered cost-effective, and coverage and adequate payments may not be available or may not be sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a competitive basis. In both the United States and elsewhere, sales of medical products and treatments are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors, such as health maintenance organizations and other private insurance plans and governmental programs such as Medicare. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for pharmaceutical products and services. Our business is affected by the efforts of government and third-party payors to contain or reduce the cost of health care through various means. In the United States, there have been and will continue to be a number of federal and state proposals to implement government controls on pricing. Similar government pricing controls exist in varying degrees in other countries. In addition, the emphasis on managed care in the United States has increased and will continue to increase the pressure on the pricing of pharmaceutical products. We cannot predict whether any legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted or the effect these proposals or managed care efforts may have on our business. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Results of our operations, general market conditions for biotechnology stocks and other factors could result in a sudden change in the value of our stock. As a biopharmaceutical company, we have experienced significant volatility in our common stock. In 2006, our stock price ranged from a high of $7.78 to a low of $3.27. Factors that can contribute to such volatility may include: announcements regarding results and timing of preclinical studies and clinical trials; transactions to acquire or otherwise maximize the value of technology held by AGTI; evidence of the safety or efficacy of pharmaceutical products; announcements regarding product developments or regulatory approvals obtained by companies developing competing products; decisions by regulatory agencies that impact or may impact our product candidates; the results and timing of efforts by our partner or future partners to develop stents or other medical devices to deliver AP23573; announcements of new collaborations; announcements of new equity or debt financings or of issuances under our equity financing commitment; failure to enter into collaborations; our funding requirements; announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic products; developments relating to intellectual property rights, including licensing, litigation and governmental regulation and, in particular, our litigation with Lilly and with Amgen and reexamination proceedings in the PTO with respect to the ‘516 Patent; healthcare or cost-containment legislation; general market trends for the biotechnology industry and related high-technology industries; the impact of exchange rates for the U.S. dollar; the impact of changing interest rates and policies of the Federal Reserve; and public policy pronouncements. These and other factors could have a significant impact on the value and volatility of our common stock in future periods. - 24 - Raising additional capital by issuing securities or through collaboration and licensing arrangements may cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. We may seek to raise the additional capital necessary to fund our operations through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, and collaboration and licensing arrangements, including from our $50 million equity financing facility and/or from a potential collaboration for the development and commercialization of our lead product candidate. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders’ ownership interest will be diluted, and the terms of such securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect our stockholders’ rights. Under an existing loan agreement with a bank, we are required to maintain certain financial and non-financial covenants, including covenants limiting or restricting our ability to incur additional debt or declare dividends. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law, provisions in our charter and bylaws and our stockholders’ rights plan, or poison pill, could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult. Because we are a Delaware corporation, the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to stockholders. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, which prohibits us from engaging in certain business combinations, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws, each as currently in effect, also contain certain provisions that may make a third-party acquisition of us difficult, including: · a classified board of directors, with three classes of directors each serving a staggered three-year term; · the ability of the board of directors to issue preferred stock; and · the inability of our stockholders to call a special meeting. We also have implemented a stockholders’ rights plan, also called a poison pill, which could make it uneconomical for a third party to acquire our company on a hostile basis. These provisions, as well as Section 203, may discourage certain types of transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the current market price, and may limit the ability of our stockholders to approve transactions that they think may be in their best interests. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have received no written comments from the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which comments remain unresolved. ITEM 