ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS THE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES DESCRIBED BELOW ARE THOSE THAT WE CURRENTLY BELIEVE MAY MATERIALLY AFFECT OUR COMPANY. IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING RISKS ACTUALLY OCCUR, THEY MAY MATERIALLY HARM OUR BUSINESS, OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Risks relating to the development and commercialization of our products and product candidates We depend heavily on the commercial success of our first new cancer medicine, Iclusig® (ponatinib), which was approved for sale in the United States in December 2012 and the European Union in July 2013. Marketing and commercial distribution of Iclusig was temporarily suspended in the United States during the fourth quarter of 2013 as a result of safety concerns. Marketing and commercial distribution of Iclusig resumed in January 2014 with revised prescribing information and an updated boxed warning. If we do not achieve commercial success with Iclusig, our business, results of operations and financial condition will suffer, and we will be dependent on the success of our other product candidates. We obtained accelerated approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, on December 14, 2012, to sell our first new cancer medicine, Iclusig, for the treatment of adult patients with chronic, accelerated or blast phase chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) that is resistant or intolerant to prior tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) therapy or Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph+ ALL) that is resistant or intolerant to prior TKI therapy. When Iclusig was approved by the FDA, its United States prescribing information, or USPI, included a boxed warning concerning arterial thrombosis, hepatotoxicity and other precautions. We commenced sales and marketing of Iclusig in the United States in January 2013. In October 2013, we suspended marketing and commercial distribution of Iclusig in the United States based on the FDA’s concerns about updated safety data from the pivotal PACE trial of Iclusig. In addition, our clinical trials for Iclusig were placed on partial clinical hold and we discontinued our Phase 3 EPIC trial of Iclusig in adult patients with newly diagnosed CML in the chronic phase. In December 2013, the FDA approved revised USPI, a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, and a revised box warning, allowing us to resume marketing and commercial distribution, which we commenced in January 2014. Iclusig is now indicated for adult patients with T315I-positive CML (chronic phase, accelerated phase, or blast phase) or T315I-positive Ph+ ALL, and chronic phase, accelerated phase, or blast phase CML or Ph+ ALL for whom no other TKI therapy is indicated. Iclusig has also been approved for marketing and commercial distribution in the European Union. On July 2, 2013, we announced that the European Commission had granted marketing authorization for Iclusig in the European Union, and we commenced sales efforts in certain European countries in 2013. In November 2013, the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, announced the continued availability of Iclusig for certain adult patients with CML and Ph+ ALL with revised authorized indications and recommendations on measures to reduce safety risk, including the risk of occlusive vascular events. In addition, the EMA has commenced an in-depth review of the benefits and risks of Iclusig, and we expect the results of this review in mid-2014. Prior to the approval of Iclusig, we had not marketed a therapeutic product. We had no significant revenues from product sales in 2012 and $45.2 million in revenues from product sales in 2013. We expect that a majority of our total revenues in the next several years will be attributable to sales of Iclusig. We cannot be certain that Iclusig will be commercially successful. In addition to the other challenges related to a company launching its first commercial drug, we have faced the challenges of having Iclusig removed from the market in the United States in the fourth quarter of 2013 and re-launching the drug in the first quarter of 2014 with revised prescribing information that reduces the addressable patient population and an updated box warning. In addition, we face intense competition from other TKIs that are currently approved for the treatment of patients with CML, such as nilotinib marketed by Novartis, dasatinib marketed by Bristol-Myers Squibb, bosutinib marketed by Pfizer and omacetaxine mepesuccinate 24 Table of Contents marketed by Teva Pharmaceutical Industries. Moreover, the FDA, EMA or other regulatory authorities could take additional actions in the future that could further reduce the commercial potential of Iclusig. If we do not achieve commercial success with Iclusig, our business, results of operations and financial condition will suffer, and we will be dependent on the success of our other product candidates. The commercial success of Iclusig depends on numerous factors, some of which are outside our control. If one or more of these factors negatively affects sales of Iclusig, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially harmed. Our future sales of Iclusig depend on numerous factors, including: • the impact of the changes required by the FDA in the USPI that reduce the addressable patient population and any changes that may be required by the EMA following its review of the risks and benefits of Iclusig, along with any additional changes that may be required in the future; • the safety profile of Iclusig, including whether previously unknown side-effects or increased incidence or severity of known side-effects, as compared to those seen during development, are identified with the increased use of Iclusig after approval, such as we announced in the fourth quarter of 2013; • competition from other TKIs, which compete with Iclusig on the basis of, among other things, efficacy, cost, breadth of approved use and the safety and side-effect profile; • competition from any additional products for the treatment of CML that are approved by the FDA, the EMA and other regulatory authorities in the future; • the effectiveness of our commercial strategy for marketing Iclusig and our execution of that strategy, including our pricing strategy and the effectiveness of our efforts to obtain adequate third-party reimbursements; • receipt of regulatory approvals for Iclusig, and any applicable pricing and reimbursement approvals, in Europe, Japan and other countries or territories outside of the United States and the European Union; • the acceptance of Iclusig by patients, the medical community and third-party payors, particularly following the temporary suspension of commercial distribution in the fourth quarter of 2013 and the updated prescribing information, including a revised boxed warning; • results from clinical trials and the receipt of regulatory approvals in any other indications that we may decide to pursue in blood cancers and solid tumors; and • our ability to meet the demand for commercial supplies of Iclusig and to maintain and successfully monitor commercial manufacturing arrangements for Iclusig with third-party manufacturers to ensure they meet our standards and those of regulatory authorities, which extensively regulate and monitor pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities. While we believe that Iclusig is an important medicine for patients with resistant or intolerant Philadelphia-positive leukemias, our current estimates of the revenues that Iclusig could generate in future periods have changed as a result of our announcements in the fourth quarter of 2013 concerning the safety, marketing and commercial distribution and further clinical development of Iclusig in the United States and may change further based upon the above factors, and could be wrong. If our revenues, market share and/or other indicators of market acceptance for Iclusig do not meet the expectations of investors or public market analysts, the market price of our common stock would likely decline, as occurred in October 2013, when our stock price declined by 87%, from $17.14 per share before our announcements to a low of 25 Table of Contents $2.15 per share following the announcements. In addition, if one or more of the factors above negatively affects sales of Iclusig, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially harmed. We have never marketed a drug prior to Iclusig, and if we are unable to maintain an effective and specialized sales force and marketing infrastructure, we will not be able to commercialize Iclusig successfully. In order to successfully commercialize Iclusig, we built a marketing organization and a specialized sales force for Iclusig and commenced marketing and commercial distribution of Iclusig in the United States in January 2013. In addition, in Europe, we have established operations with headquarters in Switzerland and have commenced sales efforts in certain European countries. However, in November 2013, we implemented a significant reduction in workforce, amounting to approximately 40% of our employees in the United States, including commercial sales force positions and other commercial positions in the United States, following the suspension of marketing and commercial distribution of Iclusig in the United States. As we begin to resume these activities, we have recruited and hired additional personnel to commercialize Iclusig in the United States. Factors that may hinder our ability to successfully market and commercially distribute Iclusig include: • inability to recruit, retain and effectively manage adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel, particularly in light of our workforce reduction in the fourth quarter of 2013; • inability to maintain relationships with the single specialty pharmacy with whom we have contracted for distribution of Iclusig in the United States and our other distributors, suppliers and manufacturers; • inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or convince adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe our products, particularly following the suspension of marketing and commercial distribution of Iclusig in the United States in the fourth quarter of 2013 and the resumption in the first quarter of 2014 with revised prescribing information and a revised boxed warning; • lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies that have more extensive product lines; and • unforeseen delays, costs and expenses associated with maintaining our international capabilities, including our international sales and marketing organization and international supply chain and pricing and reimbursement capabilities. If we are unable to rebuild our sales force and marketing capability for Iclusig in the United States and further build and sustain our sales force for Iclusig in the European Union, we may not be able to generate sufficient product revenue, may generate increased expenses and may never become profitable. We will need to continue to expend significant time and resources to train our Iclusig sales forces in the United States and the European Union to be credible, persuasive and compliant in discussing Iclusig with the specialists treating the patients indicated under the product’s label. We will also need to continue to train our sales force to ensure that a consistent and appropriate message about Iclusig is being delivered to our potential customers, including new information in response to the developments that we announced in the fourth quarter of 2013. In addition, if we are unable to effectively train our sales force and equip them with effective materials, including medical and sales literature to help them inform and educate potential customers about the benefits and risks of Iclusig and its proper administration, our ability to successfully commercialize Iclusig could be diminished, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents If Iclusig and any of our product candidates are not accepted by patients, physicians and third-party payors, we will not be successful. Our success is dependent on the commercial acceptance of Iclusig and any of our other product candidates that may be approved. Iclusig and any other approved product candidates may not achieve market acceptance among patients, physicians or third-party payors, even if we have obtained necessary regulatory and any applicable pricing and reimbursement approvals. Physicians and health care payors may conclude that Iclusig or our product candidates are not as safe and/or effective as competing therapies or are not as attractive based on a cost and risk/benefit analysis as alternative treatments. For example, physicians may elect not to prescribe our drugs, and patients may elect not to request or take them for a variety of reasons, including lower demonstrated or perceived clinical safety and efficacy compared to other drugs; prevalence and severity of adverse events or other side effects; lack of cost-effectiveness; lack of reimbursement availability from third-party payors; a decision to wait for the approval of other therapies that are believed to have significant advantages over our drugs and drug candidates; convenience and ease of administration; other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; or ineffective marketing and distribution support. We expect that the revised prescribing information for Iclusig and our announcements in the fourth quarter of 2013 concerning Iclusig’s safety, marketing and commercial distribution may cause physicians and other health care providers to reduce the recommended use of Iclusig. We believe that recommendations by physicians and acceptance by health care payors will be essential for market acceptance of Iclusig and our product candidates. If Iclusig fails to achieve market acceptance, or our product candidates are approved and fail to achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to generate revenues sufficient to be successful. Competing drugs or technologies may render some or all of our products or future products noncompetitive or obsolete. Many well-known pharmaceutical, healthcare and biotechnology companies, which have substantially greater capital, research and development capabilities and experience, are presently engaged in one or more of the following activities: • developing products based on computational and structure-based drug design; • conducting research and development programs focused on the same biological targets or for the treatment of the various disease indications on which we are focused; and • manufacturing, marketing and selling pharmaceutical or medical device products for treatment of diseases in all of the various disease indications in which we or our current or possible future collaborators are focused. Some of these entities already have competitive products on the market or product candidates in clinical trials or in more advanced preclinical studies than we do. Many of these entities also have substantially greater research, development, manufacturing and marketing resources and experience than us. For example, Iclusig currently competes with existing therapies that are approved for the treatment of patients with CML who are resistant or intolerant to prior TKI therapies, such as nilotinib marketed by Novartis, dasatinib marketed by Bristol-Myers Squibb, bosutinib marketed by Pfizer and omacetaxine mepesuccinate marketed by Teva Pharmaceutical Industries. Based on the revised USPI for Iclusig approved by the FDA in December 2013, Iclusig may only be promoted for treatment of adult patients with T315I-positive CML and Ph+ ALL and patients for whom no other TKI therapy is indicated, which we expect will result in lower revenues from sales of Iclusig in future periods than we initially anticipated when the drug was approved in December 2012. 27 Table of Contents Competing drugs or technologies may render some or all of our products or future products noncompetitive or obsolete, and we may not be able to make the enhancements to our products necessary to compete successfully with newly emerging drug products. Competing products on the market or in development may also lead us and our collaborators to revise or cease development of our product candidates in one or more indications for commercial reasons, even where clinical data may be promising. If we are unable to successfully compete in our chosen markets, we will not become profitable. In order to execute our business plan and achieve the full commercial potential of Iclusig, we intend to seek regulatory approval to commercialize Iclusig outside of the United States and the European Union and to seek approval of additional therapeutic indications and lines of therapy. If we are not successful in these efforts, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially harmed. Based on sales of existing TKIs for the treatment of CML, we believe that there are commercial opportunities for the use of Iclusig globally in additional therapeutic indications and in additional lines of therapy, and we are pursuing these opportunities. We have filed marking authorization applications for Iclusig in Switzerland (which was approved in February 2014), Canada and Australia and plan to file for marketing authorization for Iclusig with regulatory authorities in Japan. However, we are in discussions with the regulatory authorities regarding our announcements in the fourth quarter of 2013 concerning the safety of Iclusig, which could delay, limit or even potentially prevent the approval of Iclusig in these countries. We also believe that Iclusig has potential applications beyond CML in other blood cancers and solid tumors, such as gastrointestinal stromal tumors, or GIST, acute myeloid leukemia and certain forms of non-small cell lung cancer, or NSCLC. In June 2013, we announced the initiation of a Phase 2 open-label, multicenter trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Iclusig in adult patients with metastatic and/or unresectable GIST, following failure of prior TKI therapy. However, this trial remains on partial clinical hold following our announcements in the fourth quarter of 2013 regarding additional safety data. If we are not successful in obtaining regulatory approval of Iclusig in additional foreign countries and in additional indications and lines of therapy, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially harmed. We may not succeed in developing, receiving regulatory approval and generating product revenues from our product candidate AP26113 or any other product candidates, which would materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. As with all scientific endeavors, we face much trial and error, and we and our collaborators may fail at numerous stages along the way, which could prevent us and our collaborators from successfully developing, obtaining approval for and marketing our product candidate AP26113 and any other product candidates. Factors that could affect the timing and the ability to obtain additional regulatory approvals and to achieve market acceptance and gain market share for AP26113 and any other product candidates include, among others: • product formulation; • dose and dosage regimen; • the ability to obtain timely and sufficient patient enrollment in clinical trials; • the risk of occurrence of adverse events and other side effects in patients participating in clinical trials; • the attainment of clinical data that is sufficient to support regulatory approval; • the ability to manufacture sufficient quantities of product candidates at commercially reasonable costs; • the ability to fund commercial development and to build or access a sales force in the marketplace for that product candidate; • the ability to successfully differentiate product candidates from competitive products; 28 Table of Contents • the ability to educate physicians and build awareness about our product candidates; and • the ability to sell, market and distribute such product candidates. We may not receive regulatory approvals within the timeframes we anticipate, or at all, and ultimately we may not succeed in developing or commercializing additional products which will generate revenues for our company. If we are not successful in developing our product candidates, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing any approved products, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially harmed. Positive results from earlier stage clinical trials may not be replicated in later-stage clinical trials, increased adverse events or safety issues could arise, or regulatory authorities may conclude that clinical data from later-stage clinical trials are not sufficient to support approval or that data from post-approval clinical trials are not sufficient to support broader use of drugs after approval. Regulatory authorities may require changes in the permitted usage of any approved products. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials or following regulatory approval even after achieving promising results in earlier-stage development. Accordingly, the results to date from preclinical studies and clinical trials for Iclusig and AP26113 may not be predictive of the results to be obtained from ongoing or future clinical trials. In addition, regulatory authorities may conclude that data generated from later-stage clinical trials are not sufficient to support approval, or that data obtained following approval may require changes to be made in the permitted usage of any approved products. For example, although we were able to obtain accelerated approval for Iclusig on the basis of data from our pivotal Phase 2 PACE trial without conducting a Phase 3 trial, and we believe that similar prospects for regulatory approval exist for AP26113, we may be required to conduct more clinical trials for AP26113 than we currently anticipate. Moreover, we announced in October 2013 updated data from the PACE trial, in which it was observed that with a median follow up of 24 months, serious arterial thrombosis occurred in 11.8% of Iclusig-treated patients, compared to 8% after 11 months of follow-up reflected in the then-current USPI. Based on this and other follow-up data, marketing and commercial distribution of Iclusig was suspended in October 2013 and, following discussions with the FDA, was permitted to resume in December 2013 with revised prescribing information and a revised boxed warning. The updated prescribing information for Iclusig reduces the addressable patient population for whom Iclusig is indicated, which we expect will negatively impact future revenues associated with Iclusig compared to revenues anticipated based on the label that was initially approved in December 2012. If positive results from earlier stage trials are not replicated in later-stage trials, if increased adverse events or safety issues arise, if we or our collaborators are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of our product candidates beyond those currently contemplated, or if the permitted usage of Iclusig or any of our other product candidates that are approved is constrained or withdrawn by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, we or our collaborators may be delayed in obtaining, or may not be able to obtain or maintain, marketing approval for these products, and we may lose the opportunity to generate product revenues or to earn additional development or regulatory milestones or royalties. Furthermore, potential competitive commercial factors and our resources may influence future decisions and directions by us or our collaborators on which clinical indications to pursue and when. Risks relating to our financial position and capital requirements We have incurred significant losses to date and may never be profitable. We have incurred significant losses since our formation in 1991, and had an accumulated deficit of $1.1 billion at December 31, 2013. Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in research and development of Iclusig and our product candidates AP26113 and ridaforolimus (prior to our license agreement with Merck), from our discovery research activities and from general and administrative costs, including costs incurred to prosecute and protect our intellectual property. In addition, we have incurred 29 Table of Contents significant expenses in building a commercial organization to market, sell and distribute Iclusig and our other products upon potential regulatory approval in the United States, Europe and other select markets, worldwide. It is likely that we will incur significant operating losses for the foreseeable future, as we continue our research and development activities and re-build our sales and marketing organization to market Iclusig and in anticipation of obtaining regulatory approval to market AP26113, which approval may never occur. If our losses continue and we and our existing collaborators or potential future collaborators are unable to successfully develop, commercialize, manufacture and market Iclusig, AP26113, ridaforolimus and any other product candidates and/or we are unable to enter into additional collaboration agreements or licenses for our intellectual property, we may never generate sufficient revenues to achieve profitability. Even if we and our collaborators are able to commercialize products and we are able to enter into collaboration agreements or licenses in the future, we may never generate sufficient revenues to have profitable operations. Insufficient funding may jeopardize our research and development programs and may require us to reduce our operations or prevent commercialization of our products and technologies. We have funded our operations to date primarily through sales of equity securities and, to a lesser extent, by the incurrence of debt from commercial lenders, the receipt of upfront and milestone payments from Merck since July 2007, and product revenues generated by sales of Iclusig beginning in 2013. As of December 31, 2013, we had cash and cash equivalents totaling $237.2 million. Of this amount, $15 million is maintained as minimum balance requirements related to our bank term loan and $17.1 million was in accounts held by our international subsidiaries. We expect that our cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2013 will be sufficient to fund our operations to mid-2015. We will, however, require substantial additional funding for our research and development programs (including pre-clinical development and clinical trials), for the pursuit of regulatory approvals and for establishing or maintaining manufacturing, distribution, marketing and sales capabilities related to Iclusig, AP26113 and any other product candidates that may be approved. We will also require funding for our other operating expenses (including intellectual property protection and enforcement and litigation) as well as capital expenditures to maintain and improve our facilities, equipment and systems and provide for our business. We may from time to time access funding by issuing common stock or other securities in private placements or public offerings. We are currently a “well-known seasoned issuer,” or WKSI, pursuant to rules of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and have an active registration statement that allows us to sell additional shares of our common stock and other securities. We may also from time to time seek additional funding from technology licensing, or the issuance of debt or other structured funding alternatives. However, such additional funding may not be available at all, or on terms acceptable to us. If we are not able to secure the significant funding which is required to maintain our operations or continue to fund current or future research and development programs at their current levels or at levels that may be required in the future, we may be required to reduce our operations or to delay, scale back, eliminate or terminate commercialization or further clinical development of Iclusig or clinical trials for one or more of our product candidates. In addition, we may be required to enter into licenses, settlements or other arrangements with third parties on terms that may be unfavorable to us or to sell, license or relinquish rights to develop or commercialize our product candidates, approved products, technologies or intellectual property. Our ability to use net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards to offset future taxable income may be limited in the future if we do not have sufficient taxable income or due to ownership changes that have occurred or may occur in the future. As of December 31, 2013, we had tax assets, including net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, of $498.7 million in the United States and $122.0 million in foreign territories and U.S. federal research tax credits of $25.9 million, which could be used in certain circumstances to offset our future taxable income or 30 Table of Contents otherwise payable taxes and therefore reduce our federal and state income tax liabilities. Based on current income tax rates, if fully utilized, our NOLs and other carryforwards could provide a benefit to us of significant future tax savings. However, our ability to use these tax benefits in future years will depend upon our ability to comply with the rules relating to the preservation and use of NOLs and the amount of our otherwise taxable income. If we do not have sufficient taxable income in future years to use the tax benefits before they expire, we will lose the benefit of these NOLs permanently. Consequently, our ability to use the tax benefits associated with our NOLs will depend significantly on our success in generating income from Iclusig and any other product candidates that may be approved. Additionally, if we undergo an ownership change, the NOLs and tax credit carryforwards would be subject to an annual limit on the amount of the taxable income that may be offset by our NOLs generated prior to the ownership change, and we may be unable to use a significant portion or all of our NOLs to offset taxable income. In general, under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Internal Revenue Code, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOLs and certain other tax assets to offset future taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of certain stockholders increases by more than 50 percentage points over such stockholders’ lowest percentage ownership during the testing period (generally three years). An ownership change could limit our ability to utilize our NOL and tax credit carryforwards for taxable years including or following such “ownership change”. Since our October 2013 announcements concerning the safety, marketing and commercial distribution and further clinical development of Iclusig in the United States, there has been an extremely high volume of trading of our stock, and a significant drop in the value of our stock. As a result of the high trading volume, there may be a shift of ownership amongst certain of our stockholders that could result in an ownership change, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Limitations imposed on the ability to use NOLs and tax credits to offset future taxable income could require us to pay U.S. federal income taxes earlier than would otherwise be required if such limitations were not in effect and could cause such NOLs and tax credits to expire unused, in each case reducing or eliminating the benefit of such NOLs and tax credits. Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan in the form of a Section 382 Rights Plan with the intention of reducing the likelihood of an ownership change. However, we cannot be sure that these measures will be effective in deterring or preventing such an ownership change. Raising additional capital by issuing securities or through collaboration and licensing arrangements may cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. We may seek to raise the additional capital necessary to fund our operations through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, and collaboration and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders’ ownership interest will be diluted, and the terms of such securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect our stockholders’ rights or, in the case of debt securities, require us to pay interest that would reduce our cash flows from operations or comply with certain covenants that could restrict our operations. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Forecasting sales of Iclusig may be difficult and revenue recognition may be deferred. If our revenue projections are inaccurate or revenue is deferred, our business may be harmed and our future prospects may be adversely affected. Iclusig may not be adopted rapidly, or at all, by physicians. Factors that can affect the rate of adoption and that can increase the difficulty of forecasting sales include the following: • cautionary prescribing behavior, confusion or other concerns regarding the safety and risk-benefit of Iclusig, particularly following our announcements in the fourth quarter of 2013 concerning the safety, marketing and commercial distribution of Iclusig in the United States and the revised prescribing information and boxed warning for Iclusig approved by the FDA in December 2013; 31 Table of Contents • decisions that may be made by physicians regarding dosing of patients with Iclusig in response to safety concerns or adverse events; • difficulty in identifying appropriate patients for treatment with Iclusig; • the cost and availability of reimbursement for the product; • other aspects of physician education; • treatment guidelines issued by government and non-government agencies; • types of cancer for which the product is approved; • timing of market entry relative to competitive products; • availability of alternative therapies; • price of our product relative to alternative therapies, including generic versions of our product, or generic versions of innovative products that compete with our product; • patients’ reliance on patient assistance programs, under which we provide free drug; • rates of returns and rebates; • uncertainty of launch trajectory; • the ability of our third-party manufacturers to manufacture and deliver Iclusig in commercially sufficient quantities; • the ability of our single specialty pharmacy distributor to process orders in a timely manner and satisfy its other obligations to us; • the extent of marketing efforts by us and any third-party agents retained by us; and • side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning our products or similar products. The extent to which any of these or other factors individually or in the aggregate may impact future sales of Iclusig is uncertain and difficult to predict. Our management must make forecasting decisions regarding future revenue in the course of business planning despite this uncertainty, and actual results of operations may deviate materially from projected results. This may lead to inefficiencies and increased difficulties in operational planning. If our revenues from Iclusig sales are lower than we anticipate or revenue is deferred, we will incur costs in the short term that will result in losses that are unavoidable. A shortfall in our revenue would have a direct impact on our cash flow and on our business generally. In addition, fluctuations in our quarterly results can adversely and significantly affect the market price of our common stock. Our financial results depend on management’s selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying 32 Table of Contents many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet may result in our reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative. Certain accounting policies are critical to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make significant estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures. Significant estimates that may be made by us include assumptions used in the determination of revenue recognition, accrued product development expenses, inventory, leased buildings under construction and stock-based compensation. Although we base our estimates and judgments on historical experience, our interpretation of existing accounting literature and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, if our assumptions prove to be materially incorrect, actual results may differ materially from these estimates. Significant additional losses or insufficient funding may cause us to default on certain covenants of our loan documents. At December 31, 2013, we had $9.1 million outstanding under a term loan agreement with a bank. Pursuant to this loan agreement, we are required to maintain certain financial and non-financial covenants, including minimum cash, cash equivalents and investments of $15 million, a default of any of which would allow the bank to demand payment of its loan. We currently have sufficient liquidity to fund payment of this loan if demand for payment were made. However, if we do not receive sufficient revenues from our collaborations and licenses or from any sales of our products, or if we are unable to raise adequate financing to fund continuing operations or otherwise to refinance our loan, we may not be able to maintain compliance with loan covenants, may be required to pay off the loan and may be required to reduce our spending on operations. Risks relating to our reliance on third parties We depend on third-party manufacturers, including sole source suppliers, to manufacture Iclusig and our product candidates and the materials we require for our clinical trials. We may not be able to maintain these relationships and could experience supply disruptions outside of our control. We rely on a network of third-party manufacturers to manufacture and supply Iclusig for commercial sale and post-approval clinical trials, and our drug candidates for clinical trials and any commercial sales if they are approved. As a result of our reliance on these third-party manufacturers and suppliers, including sole source suppliers of certain components of Iclusig and our product candidates, we could be subject to significant supply disruptions. Our supply chain for sourcing raw materials and manufacturing drug product ready for distribution is a multi-step endeavor. Third-party contract manufacturers supply us with raw materials, and contract manufacturers in the United States convert these raw materials into drug substance and convert the drug substance into final dosage form. Establishing and managing this supply chain requires a significant financial commitment and the creation and maintenance of numerous third-party contractual relationships. Although we attempt to effectively manage the business relationships with companies in our supply chain, we do not have control over their operations. We require a supply of Iclusig for sale in the United States and Europe, and we will require a supply of Iclusig for sale in other markets if we obtain additional marketing approvals. We currently rely, and expect to continue to rely, on sole source third-party manufacturers to produce starting materials, drug substance, and final drug product, and to package and label Iclusig and our product candidates, until we enter into arrangements with additional or alternative suppliers. While we have identified and expect to qualify and engage back-up third-party manufacturers as additional or alternative suppliers for the commercial supply of Iclusig, we currently do not have such arrangements in place. Moreover, some of these alternative manufacturers will have to be approved by the FDA before we can use them for 33 Table of Contents manufacturing Iclusig. It is also possible that supplies of materials that cannot be second-sourced can be managed with inventory planning. There can be no assurance, however, that failure of any of our original sole source third party manufacturers to meet our commercial demands for Iclusig in a timely manner, or our failure to engage qualified additional or back-up suppliers for the commercial supply of Iclusig, would not have a material adverse effect on commercialization of Iclusig and our business. Supply disruptions may result from a number of factors, including shortages in product raw materials, labor or technical difficulties, regulatory inspections or restrictions, shipping or customs delays or any other performance failure by any third-party manufacturer on which we rely. Any supply disruptions could disrupt sales of Iclusig and/or the timing of our clinical trials, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. Furthermore, we may be required to modify our production methods to permit us to economically manufacture our drugs for sale and our drug candidates for clinical trials. These modifications may require us to re-evaluate our resources and the resources of our third-party manufacturers, which could result in abrupt changes in our production methods and supplies. In the course of providing its services, a contract manufacturer may develop process technology related to the manufacture of our products or drug candidates that the manufacturer owns, either independently or jointly with us. This would increase our reliance on that manufacturer or require us to obtain a license from that manufacturer in order to have Iclusig or our drug candidates manufactured by other suppliers utilizing the same process. The failure of our third party manufacturers to meet our commercial demands for Iclusig in a timely manner, or our failure to engage qualified additional or back-up suppliers for the commercial supply of Iclusig, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. We rely on a sole specialty pharmacy for distribution of Iclusig in the United States, and the loss of that specialty pharmacy or its failure to distribute Iclusig effectively would adversely affect sales of Iclusig. In January 2014 we announced that Biologics, Inc. will serve as the sole specialty pharmacy for distribution of Iclusig in the United States. A specialty pharmacy is a pharmacy that specializes in the dispensing of medications for complex or chronic conditions, which often require a high level of patient education and ongoing management. The use of specialty pharmacies involves certain risks, including, but not limited to, risks that these specialty pharmacies will: • not provide us accurate or timely information regarding their inventories, the number of patients who are using our products or complaints about our products; • reduce their efforts or discontinue to sell or support or otherwise not effectively sell or support our products; • not devote the resources necessary to sell our products in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect; • be unable to satisfy financial obligations to us or others; or • cease operations. In addition, our agreement with Biologics may be terminated by either party on 30 days’ notice. If our sole specialty pharmacy does not fulfill its contractual obligations to us, or refuses or fails to adequately serve patients, or the agreement is terminated without adequate notice, shipments of Iclusig, and associated revenues, would be adversely affected. In addition, we expect that it may take a significant amount of time if we were required to change our specialty pharmacy. 34 Table of Contents We have limited experience in conducting clinical trials and are dependent upon the ability of third parties, including contract research organizations, collaborative academic groups, clinical trial sites and investigators, to conduct or to assist us in conducting clinical trials for our product candidates. Notwithstanding our successful development of Iclusig to date, we have limited experience compared to many other biopharmaceutical companies in designing, initiating, conducting and monitoring the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates. We are currently conducting clinical trials of Iclusig and of AP26113. We are dependent upon our ability and/or the ability of our collaborators, licensees, contract research organizations, clinical trial sites and investigators to successfully design, initiate, conduct and monitor clinical trials. Failure by us or any of these parties to timely and effectively initiate, conduct and monitor our clinical trials could significantly delay or materially impair our ability to complete clinical trials and/or obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates and, consequently, could delay or materially impair our ability to generate revenues from them. If any collaborator or licensee terminates its agreement with us or fails to perform its obligations under its agreement with us, or fails to comply with applicable law, the development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed or terminated. Our current or future collaborations and licenses may not result in product candidates that are scientifically or commercially successful or result in the development or commercialization of any product candidates. In addition, disputes may arise in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology or product candidates developed with collaborators and licensees, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to develop and commercialize any affected product candidate. Our current collaboration and license agreements allow, and we expect that any future collaborations and licenses will allow, either party to terminate the agreement for specified material breaches by the other party. If a collaborator or licensee terminates its agreement with us, for breach or otherwise, it may be difficult for us to attract new collaborators or licensees and could adversely affect how we are perceived in the business and financial communities. In addition, a collaborator or licensee could determine that it is in its financial interest to: • pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products, either on its own or jointly with others, that may be competitive with the products on which it is collaborating with us or has licensed from us, which could affect its commitment to us; • pursue higher-priority programs or change the focus of its development programs, which could affect the collaborator’s or licensee’s commitment to us; or • choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our product candidates, if any are approved for marketing, than it does for product candidates of its own development. If any of these events occur, the development and commercialization of one or more of our product candidates could be delayed, curtailed or terminated because we may not have sufficient financial resources or capabilities to continue such development and commercialization on our own. Risks relating to our intellectual property If our patents do not protect Iclusig or our product candidates, our exclusive commercial rights in the product or product candidate could be compromised, and if any of our approved drugs or product candidates infringe third-party patents, we could be subject to litigation and substantial liabilities. We have numerous issued patents and patent applications pending in the United States, as well as counterparts in other countries. Our success will depend, in significant part, on our ability to obtain and maintain United States and foreign patent protection for Iclusig and our product candidates, their manufacture and uses; to preserve our trade secrets; and to operate without infringing the proprietary 35 Table of Contents rights of third parties. In particular, we believe that composition-of-matter claims are the most significant patent claims for companies in our segment of the pharmaceutical industry that focus on small molecule drug candidates that are new chemical compounds. While we have patents or patent applications with composition-of-matter claims for Iclusig and each of our product candidates, only a portion of these patents have been granted to date. We cannot be certain that any patents will issue from our patent applications or, even if patents issue or have issued, that the issued claims will provide us with any significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be valuable commercially. Due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents, our ability to maintain, obtain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. U.S. and foreign patent applications typically are maintained in confidence for a period of time after they initially are filed with the applicable patent office. Similarly, publication of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries. Consequently, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors were the first to invent, or the first to file patent applications covering Iclusig, our product candidates or their manufacture or use. Third parties, including a number of our competitors, have developed competing and/or complementary technologies upon which patent applications have been filed and patents have been granted. These third-party technologies concern in part compounds, compositions, methods of use and production of such compounds and compositions, targets, genes and gene mutations, and the use of such targets, genes and gene mutations to identify drug candidates and develop companion diagnostic methods and corresponding kits. Third-party intellectual property protecting such technologies that are related to our business may cover or conflict with our patent applications, technologies or product candidates as well as those of complementary businesses which our business relies upon. Such conflicts could limit the scope of the patents that we may be able to obtain or may result in the denial of our patent applications. If a third party were to obtain intellectual property protection for any of the foregoing, we may be required to challenge such protection, terminate or modify our programs impacted by such protection or obtain licenses from such third parties, which might not be available on acceptable terms. Also, if a third party were to introduce a product into the market which we believe infringes our patents, we may be required to enforce our patent rights or seek to obtain an injunction or other relief, which could be time-consuming and expensive. Our patents may be challenged by third parties, in connection with a third party’s Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, or otherwise, resulting in the patent being deemed invalid, unenforceable or narrowed in scope, which could compromise the scope or duration of our exclusive rights in the relevant product. An ANDA can be filed as early as four years after FDA approval of a drug. Other challenges to a patent may be mounted without regard to the date of an FDA approval. Also, our pending patent applications may not issue, and we may not receive any additional patents. Our patents as issued or as subsequently limited by any litigation might not contain claims that are sufficiently broad to prevent others from circumventing our patent protection and utilizing our technologies. For instance, the issued patents relating to Iclusig and our product candidates may be limited to a particular molecule or molecules and may not cover similar molecules that have similar clinical properties. Consequently, our competitors may independently develop competing products that do not infringe our patents or other intellectual property. The laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the United States and other companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. If we encounter such difficulties or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business could be substantially harmed. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a drug candidate, it is possible that, before any of our drug candidates can be commercialized, any related patent 36 Table of Contents may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization of our drug candidates, thereby reducing any advantages of the patent. To the extent our approved drugs or drug candidates are not commercialized significantly ahead of the expiration date of any applicable patent, or to the extent we have no other patent protection on such approved drugs or drug candidates, those drugs and drug candidates would not be protected by patents, and we would then need to rely solely on other types of exclusivity, such as orphan drug exclusivity and other types of regulatory exclusivity available under the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position could be harmed. In addition to seeking patents for some of our technology and products, we also rely on trade secrets, including unpatented know-how, technology, and other proprietary information, to maintain our competitive position. We seek to protect these trade secrets, in part, by entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties that have access to them, such as our employees, collaborators, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers, contract manufacturers, consultants, advisors and other third parties. We also have entered into confidentiality and invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and our consultants. Any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose our proprietary information, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, some courts inside and outside the United States are less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets. If any of our trade secrets were to be lawfully obtained or independently developed by a competitor, we would have no right to prevent them from using that technology or information to compete with us. If any our trade secrets were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our competitive position could be harmed. Risks relating to our operations Our cost-reducing measures may not result in anticipated savings, could disrupt our business and could yield unintended consequences, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have implemented significant cost savings measures to mitigate the financial impact of our announcements in the fourth quarter of 2013 concerning the safety, marketing and commercial distribution of, and revised prescribing information for, Iclusig. These measures included a substantial reduction of our workforce in November 2013, amounting to approximately 40% of our employees in the United States, and an ongoing realignment of our cost structure. As part of our reduction in workforce, we eliminated commercial sales force positions for Iclusig and also eliminated positions in research and development and support functions. Although we have recruited additional personnel to commercialize Iclusig in the United States in connection with our resumption of marketing and commercial distribution in January 2014, the earlier reduction in our workforce may limit our ability to complete all of our corporate objectives. In addition, we could be required to implement further workforce and expense reductions in the future. Further workforce and expense reductions could result in reduced progress on our internal programs. The cost-reducing measures taken by us could yield unintended consequences, such as distraction of our management and employees, the inability to retain and attract new employees, business disruption, a negative impact on morale among remaining employees, attrition beyond our planned reduction in workforce and reduced employee productivity, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, employees, whether or not directly affected by a reduction, may seek future employment with our business partners or our competitors. Any failure to attract or retain qualified personnel could prevent us from successfully developing and commercializing Iclusig and our product candidates in the future. In addition, our reductions in personnel may subject us to risks of litigation, which could result in substantial cost. We cannot guarantee that the cost reduction measures, or other measures we may take in the future, will result in the expected cost savings, or that any cost savings will be unaccompanied by these or other unintended consequences. 37 Table of Contents If we fail to manage the size of our workforce and other resources effectively, our business may suffer. The number of our employees more than doubled in the past two years as we built out the commercial organization that is responsible for the commercialization of Iclusig in the United States and Europe, but was then reduced by approximately 40% of our employees in the United States in the fourth quarter of 2013 in connection with our announcements concerning the updated safety, marketing and commercial distribution and further clinical development of Iclusig. We have also entered into a new lease to move our corporate headquarters and laboratory facilities to two buildings being constructed by the landlord at 75 Binney Street and 125 Binney Street in Cambridge, Massachusetts. We had planned to move into the new buildings in early 2015. However, in light of our announcements in the fourth quarter of 2013 concerning Iclusig, we are re-assessing our occupancy plans related to this and our other properties. As a result, plans and drawings for the tenant improvements for the Binney Street facility have not been approved by us and have not, at this time, been completed and submitted in accordance with the timelines specified in the lease. If delay of submission of plans and drawings in accordance with the timelines specified in the lease results in a delay in the occupancy date for the facility, we may be required to commence rent payments for the facility prior to occupancy. We are currently in discussions with the landlord regarding revisions to our plans, the timelines related to submission of such plans and other matters in the lease. In addition, because our drug discovery and development activities are highly technical in nature, we require the services of highly qualified and trained scientists who have the skills necessary to conduct these activities. We need to attract and retain employees with experience in these fields. We face intense competition for our personnel from our competitors, our collaborators and other companies throughout our industry. The growth of local biotechnology companies and the expansion of major pharmaceutical companies into the Cambridge, Massachusetts area have increased competition for the available pool of skilled employees, especially in technical fields, and the high cost of living in the Cambridge area makes it difficult to attract employees from other parts of the country to these areas. We must respond effectively to these demands and manage our internal organization to accommodate our anticipated needs. If we are unable to manage the size of our workforce and our other resources effectively, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are currently subject to securities class action litigation and derivative litigation and may be subject to similar or other litigation such as products liability litigation in the future. The market price of our common stock declined significantly following our October 2013 announcements concerning the safety, marketing and commercial distribution and further clinical development of Iclusig in the United States. Class action lawsuits have been filed alleging, among other things, that we and certain of our officers violated federal securities laws by making allegedly material misrepresentations and/or omissions of material fact regarding clinical and safety data for Iclusig in our public disclosures. The plaintiffs seek unspecified monetary damages on behalf of the putative class and an award of costs and expenses, including attorney’s fees. In addition, in November and December 2013, purported derivative lawsuits were filed alleging that our directors and certain of our officers breached their fiduciary duties related to the clinical development and commercialization of Iclusig and by making misrepresentations regarding the safety and commercial marketability of Iclusig. The lawsuits also assert claims for unjust enrichment and corporate waste, and for misappropriation of information and insider trading by the officers named as defendants. The plaintiffs seek unspecified monetary damages, changes in our corporate governance policies and internal procedures, restitution and disgorgement from the individually named defendants, and an award of costs and expenses, including attorney’s fees. 38 Table of Contents While we believe we have meritorious defenses, we cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits. We believe that there may be additional suits or proceedings brought in the future. Monitoring and defending against legal actions, whether or not meritorious, is time-consuming for our management and detracts from our ability to fully focus our internal resources on our business activities, and we cannot predict how long it may take to resolve these matters. In addition, we may incur substantial legal fees and costs in connection with litigation. Although we have insurance, coverage could be denied or prove to be insufficient. We are not currently able to estimate the possible cost to us from these lawsuits, as they are currently at an early stage and we cannot be certain how long it may take to resolve these matters or the possible amount of any damages that we may be required to pay. We have not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to these lawsuits. It is possible that we could, in the future, incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages. A decision adverse to our interests on these actions could result in the payment of substantial damages and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the uncertainty of the currently pending lawsuits could lead to more volatility in our stock price. Likewise, if product liability lawsuits are brought against us for injuries or deaths allegedly due to patients’ adverse reactions to Iclusig, we may be subject to additional liability. In any event, a potential product liability lawsuit would require significant financial and management resources. Regardless of the outcome, product liability claims may result in injury to our reputation, withdrawal of clinical trial participants, significant costs, diversion of management’s attention and resources, substantial monetary awards, loss of revenue, and additional distractions from our efforts to resume marketing and commercial distribution of Iclusig in the United States. Although we have product liability insurance, coverage could be denied or prove to be insufficient. We may not be able to renew or retain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims, which could also impact the resumption of marketing and commercial distribution of Iclusig in the United States. Our business has a substantial risk of product liability claims. If we are unable to obtain appropriate levels of insurance, product liability claims could adversely affect our business. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks inherent in the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products. Prior to obtaining regulatory approval to market our products, we or our collaborators are required to test such products in human clinical trials at health care institutions pursuant to agreements which indemnify such institutions in case of harm caused to patients by our products. We may not be able to avoid significant product liability exposure resulting from use of our products. We have product liability insurance and clinical trial insurance in amounts that we believe are adequate to cover this risk. However, our insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. If a claim is brought against us, we might be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as pay uncovered damages awards resulting from a claim brought successfully against us and these damages could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Furthermore, whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending any such claims, we might be required to direct significant financial and managerial resources to such defense, and adverse publicity is likely to result. Risks associated with operating in foreign countries could materially adversely affect our business. We have expanded our operations into Europe in order to market Iclusig internationally. In addition, we have manufacturing, collaborative and clinical trial relationships outside the United States. Consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries. Risks associated with conducting operations in foreign countries include: • differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals and regulation of approved drugs in foreign countries; 39 Table of Contents • changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements; • economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; • compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad; • foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes; • foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses or reduced revenues, and other obligations incident to doing business or operating in another country; • workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the United States; • production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and • business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism. These and other risks associated with our international operations could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, our international operations are subject to regulation under United States law. For example, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act prohibits United States companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad. In many countries, the health care professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition of a foreign government official for purposes of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We are also subject to import and export control laws. Failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including the possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls, seizures, withdrawal of an approved product from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions, the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations and corresponding adverse publicity and negative perception of our company in foreign countries. The loss of key members of our scientific and management staff could delay and may prevent the achievement of our research, development and business objectives. We are substantially dependent on our key officers and members of our staff responsible for areas such as drug development, clinical trials, regulatory affairs, drug discovery, manufacturing, commercial operations, business development and intellectual property protection and licensing. As we continue to expand our capabilities in connection with the launch of Iclusig and in anticipation of the possible launch of any additional commercial products, a loss of key personnel or a failure to properly integrate new personnel could be disruptive. While we have entered into employment agreements with all of our executive officers, these officers may terminate their employment with us at any time. The value to employees of stock-related benefits that vest over time, such as options and restricted stock units, will be significantly affected by movements in our stock price that we cannot control, and may at any point in time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. The loss of, and failure to promptly replace, any member of our management team could significantly delay and may prevent the achievement of our research, development and business objectives. If we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. Our research and development efforts involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and 40 Table of Contents disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by state, federal and foreign regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. We are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. Although we maintain workers’ compensation insurance to cover us for costs we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. We maintain insurance to cover pollution conditions or other extraordinary or unanticipated events relating to our use and disposal of hazardous materials that we believe is appropriate based on the small amount of hazardous materials we generate. Additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. We may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. A breakdown or breach of our information technology systems could subject us to liability or interrupt the operation of our business. We rely upon our information technology systems and infrastructure for our business. The size and complexity of our computer systems make them potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion and random attack. Likewise, data privacy breaches by employees and others who access our systems may pose a risk that sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. There can be no assurance that our management or diligence efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business. Risks relating to regulatory approvals, pricing and reimbursement The manufacture, distribution and sale of Iclusig are subject to significant regulatory oversight and restrictions. Regulatory authorities may require the use of a risk mitigation strategy such as the Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) required by the FDA for Iclusig. These restrictions and requirements subject us to increased risks and uncertainties, any of which could negatively impact sales of Iclusig. In connection with the approval to resume marketing and commercial distribution of Iclusig in the United States in December 2013, the FDA required us to implement a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS. The objective of the REMS program is to inform prescribers of the risk of vascular occlusion associated with Iclusig and of the revised USPI. The REMS program includes letters to physicians and professional societies, a fact sheet and information that will be communicated through professional journals and displayed at scientific meetings. In addition, we have agreed to fulfill a series of post-marketing requirements beginning in 2014 to better understand the risks of vascular occlusion and to further explore various doses of Iclusig, including enhanced assessment and prospective observation of patients with vascular occlusive events, continued follow-up monitoring of patients from our Iclusig trials, and a randomized multi-arm trial to characterize a range of Iclusig doses and safe use. Any REMS required by the FDA may lead to increased costs to assure compliance with new post-approval regulatory requirements and potential requirements or restrictions on the sale of Iclusig, all of which could lead to lower sales volume and revenue. As required by the FDA and other regulatory agencies, the information that we collect while implementing our REMS could result in further required changes to the Iclusig label and prescribing information or require us to take other actions that could have an adverse effect on Iclusig’s commercial success, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 41 Table of Contents Clinical trials for our product candidates are expensive and time consuming, may take longer than we expect or may not be completed at all, and their outcome is uncertain. We and our collaborators are currently conducting multiple clinical trials for our clinical product candidates, and we and our collaborators expect to commence additional trials of Iclusig and our product candidates in the future. Each of our clinical trials requires the investment of substantial expense and time and the timing of the commencement, continuation and completion of these clinical trials may be subject to significant delays attributable to various causes, including scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions, difficulties in identifying and enrolling patients who meet trial eligibility criteria, failure of patients to complete the clinical trial, delay in or failure to obtain IRB approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site, shortages of available drug supply, or the imposition of a clinical hold by regulatory agencies, such as the partial clinical hold the FDA imposed on additional patient enrollment in all clinical trials of Iclusig in October 2013. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the target patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, the existence of competing clinical trials and the availability of alternative established or investigational treatments. We depend on medical institutions and clinical research organizations, or CROs, to conduct our clinical trials in compliance with FDA and other applicable requirements and guidelines, often referred to as Good Clinical Practices, and to the extent they fail to enroll patients for our clinical trials, are delayed for a significant time in achieving full enrollment, or fail to follow proper procedures, we may be affected by increased costs, program delays or both, which may harm our business. In addition, we conduct clinical trials in foreign countries which may subject us to further delays and expenses as a result of increased drug shipment costs, additional regulatory requirements and the need to engage foreign CROs, as well as expose us to risks associated with less experienced clinical investigators who are unknown to the FDA, different standards of medical care, and fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with Good Clinical Practices and are subject to oversight by the FDA, other foreign governmental agencies and IRBs at the medical institutions where the clinical trials are conducted. In addition, clinical trials must be conducted with product candidates produced under current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, conditions. We, the FDA, the EMA or other foreign governmental agencies could delay, suspend or halt our clinical trials of a product candidate for numerous reasons, including: • deficiencies in the conduct of the clinical trial, including failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or clinical protocols; • the product candidate may have unforeseen adverse side effects, including fatalities, or a determination may be made that a clinical trial presents unacceptable health risks, such as was reflected in our announcement in October 2013 that the FDA had imposed a partial clinical hold on all clinical trials for Iclusig following our review of additional clinical data from the PACE trial showing that a higher percentage of patients taking Iclusig had experienced serious arterial thrombosis and serious venous occlusion after a median of 24 months of follow-up; • the time required to determine whether the product candidate is effective may be longer than expected; • the product candidate may not be more effective than current therapies; • the quality or stability of the product candidate may fall below acceptable standards; • our inability to produce or obtain sufficient quantities of the product candidate to complete the trials; • our inability to obtain IRB approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; 42 Table of Contents • lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial, including the incurrence of unforeseen costs due to enrollment delays, requirements to conduct additional trials and studies and increased expenses associated with the services of our CROs and other third parties; • our inability to recruit and enroll patients to participate in clinical trials for reasons including competition from other clinical trial programs for the same or similar indications; or • our inability to retain patients who have initiated a clinical trial but may be prone to withdraw due to side effects from the therapy, lack of efficacy or personal issues, or who are lost to further follow-up. In addition, clinical trial results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events, including patient fatalities that may be attributable to our product candidates, during a clinical trial could cause it to be redone or terminated. Further, some of our clinical trials may be overseen by an independent data monitoring committee, or DMC, and a DMC may recommend a delay or suspension in one or more of these trials due to safety or futility findings based on events occurring during a clinical trial. If clinical trials of any of our product candidates fail, we or our collaborators may not be able to obtain marketing approval for the product candidate that is the subject of the failed clinical trials. The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies could also require additional clinical trials before or after granting of marketing approval for any products, which could result in increased costs and significant delays in the development and commercialization of such products and could result in the withdrawal of such products from the market after initially obtaining marketing approval. Our failure, or the failure of our collaborators, to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a product candidate in clinical development could delay or prevent obtaining marketing approval of the product candidate and, after obtaining marketing approval, data from post-approval studies could result in the product being withdrawn from the market, either of which would likely have a material adverse effect on our business. Iclusig and each of our product candidates will remain subject to ongoing regulatory review even if they receive marketing approval. If we or our collaborators or contractors fail to comply with applicable regulations, we or they may be subject to enforcement action that could adversely affect us. We and our collaborators and contractors will continue to be subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory authorities even after our product candidates are approved. We and our collaborators and contractors will continue to be subject to FDA requirements governing, among other things, the manufacture, packaging, sale, promotion, adverse event reporting, storage and recordkeeping of our approved products. For example, in October 2013, the FDA placed a partial clinical hold on all clinical trials of Iclusig and, at the request of the FDA, we suspended marketing and commercial distribution of Iclusig in the United States following our review of additional clinical data from the pivotal PACE trial of Iclusig. The FDA has also issued Drug Safety Communications concerning Iclusig and is investigating the drug to further understand its risks and potential patient populations in which the benefits of the drug may outweigh the risks. Additionally, the EMA and FDA announced in November 2013 and December 2013, respectively, that the approved indications for Iclusig should be narrowed and its product information should be updated to include strengthened warnings. If we or any of our collaborators fails to comply with the requirements of the FDA and other U.S. or foreign governmental or regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over our products or operations or previously unknown problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes are discovered, we or our collaborator could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including warning letters; civil or criminal penalties; fines; injunctions; product seizures or detentions; import bans; voluntary or mandatory product recalls; suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; total or partial suspension of production; and refusal to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications. 43 Table of Contents We may not be able to obtain government regulatory approval to market our product candidates. Other than Iclusig, none of our product candidates has been approved for commercialization in any country. Prior to commercialization, each product candidate will be subject to an extensive and lengthy review process in the United States and in other countries. We or our collaborators may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for any product candidates, or even if approval is obtained, the labeling for such products may place restrictions on their use that could materially impact the marketability and profitability of those products. Satisfaction of regulatory requirements, which includes satisfying the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities that the product is both safe and effective for its intended uses, typically takes several years or more depending upon the type, complexity, novelty and safety profile of the product and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Uncertainty with respect to meeting the regulatory requirements governing our product candidates may result in excessive costs or extensive delays in the regulatory review process. We will not be able to sell our product candidates if we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with current good manufacturing practice requirements. Before approving any of our product candidates, the FDA will inspect the facility or facilities at which the drug product is manufactured and will not approve the drug candidate unless it is satisfied with our or our third-party manufacturer’s compliance with cGMPs. The manufacturing of our product candidates must comply with cGMP requirements of the FDA and similar requirements of regulatory agencies in other countries. These requirements govern, among other things, manufacturing, quality control and documentation procedures. We, or any third-party manufacturer of our product candidates, may not be able to comply with these requirements, which would prevent us from obtaining approval for commercialization of our products. Material changes to the manufacturing processes or a change in manufacturer of products after approvals have been granted are also subject to review and approval by the FDA or other regulatory agencies. Following approval, such facilities are subject to continuing FDA and foreign regulatory requirements including inspections and failure to comply with cGMPs or similar regulations could result in regulatory action including market withdrawals and recalls. Government and other third-party payors seek to contain costs of health care through legislative and other means. If they fail to provide coverage and adequate reimbursement rates for our products, our revenues will be harmed. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of products depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. Third-party payors include government health programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, managed care providers, and private health insurers. Governments and other third-party payors continually try to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means. For example, in certain foreign markets, pricing of pharmaceutical products is subject to governmental control. In the United States, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental control. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010, collectively, the Affordable Care Act or ACA, will require discounts under the Medicare drug benefit program and increases the rebates paid by pharmaceutical companies on drugs covered by Medicaid. In addition, the ACA imposes an annual fee, which will increase annually, on sales by branded pharmaceutical manufacturers. The financial impact of these discounts, increased rebates and fees and the other provisions of the ACA on our business is unclear, and there can be no assurance that our business will not be materially harmed by future implementation of the ACA. In addition, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting both the types and variety of drugs that they will cover and the amounts that they will pay for drugs. As a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our products. We may have to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of Iclusig or any other of our future drugs to such payors’ satisfaction. 44 Table of Contents Such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of management’s time and financial and other resources. Our products might not ultimately be considered cost-effective. Adequate third-party reimbursement might not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. Reimbursement rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost products that already are reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services, and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or imperfections in Medicare or Medicaid data used to calculate these rates. Net prices for products are often reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs or by privately-negotiated discounts. Moreover, the United States federal government, state governments and private payors frequently pursue actions against pharmaceutical companies alleging that the companies have overstated prices in order to inflate reimbursement rates. Any such action could adversely affect the pricing of and the commercial success of our products. Any legislation or regulatory changes or relaxation of laws that restrict imports of drugs from other countries also could reduce the net price we receive for our products. If we market any of our products in a manner that violates federal or state health care laws, including fraud and abuse laws, laws prohibiting off-label promotion, disclosure laws or other similar laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. We are subject to health care “fraud and abuse” laws, such as the federal False Claims Act and the anti-kickback provisions of the federal Social Security Act, laws prohibiting off-label product promotion and other similar state and federal laws and regulations. While we have a corporate compliance program designed to actively identify, prevent and mitigate risk through the implementation of compliance policies and systems and the promotion of a culture of compliance, if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws our business could be materially harmed. The federal anti-kickback law prohibits knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the ordering, furnishing, arranging for or recommending of an item or service that is reimbursable, in whole or in part, by a federal health care program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. The federal statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, patients, purchasers and formulary managers on the other hand, and therefore constrains our marketing practices and our various service arrangements with physicians, including physicians who make clinical decisions to use our products. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchasing, or recommending may be subject to scrutiny or penalty if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. Pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the FDA has not approved, known as “off-label” uses, that caused claims to be submitted to Medicaid for non-covered off-label uses; and submitting inflated “best price” information to the Medicaid Rebate Program. Although physicians are permitted to, based on their medical judgment, prescribe products for indications other than those cleared or approved by the FDA, manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products for such off-label uses. We market Iclusig for the treatment of adult patients with T315I-positive 45 Table of Contents CML (chronic phase, accelerated phase, or blast phase) or T315I-positive Ph+ ALL and chronic phase, accelerated phase, or blast phase CML or Ph+ ALL for whom no other TKI therapy is indicated, and provide promotional materials to physicians regarding the use of Iclusig in these patient populations. If the FDA determines that our promotional materials or other activities constitute off-label promotion, it could request that we modify our promotional materials or other activities or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. It also is possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they believe that the alleged improper promotion led to the submission and payment of claims for an off-label use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. Even if it is later determined we were not in violation of these laws, we may be faced with negative publicity, incur significant expenses defending our actions and have to divert significant management resources from other matters. Also applicable to some of our practices is the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and its implementing regulations, which created federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program or making false statements relating to health care matters and which also imposes certain regulatory and contractual requirements regarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. In addition, certain states have laws governing the privacy of certain health information, which may differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, complicating compliance efforts. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a pharmaceutical manufacturer’s products from reimbursement under government programs and criminal fines. Even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could harm our business. In recent years, several states and localities, including California, the District of Columbia, Maine, Minnesota, Nevada, New Mexico, Vermont and West Virginia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, health care provider, or HCP payments and other activities. Similar legislation is being considered in other states. Additionally, as part of the ACA, the federal government has enacted the Physician Payment Sunshine provisions. The Physician Payment Sunshine provisions which were enacted in February 2013 and require pharmaceutical manufacturers to publicly report gifts and payments made to physicians and teaching hospitals beginning in March 2014. Many of these requirements are new and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements will be significant. If we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement action, fines and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity. The ACA also includes various provisions designed to strengthen significantly fraud and abuse enforcement, such as increased funding for enforcement efforts and the lowering of the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback statute and criminal health care fraud statute such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any such laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal health care programs and/or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are subject to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. 46 Table of Contents The sales and marketing practices of our industry have been the subject of increased scrutiny from federal and state government agencies, and we believe that this trend will continue. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. Future health care reform measures could hinder or prevent commercial success of our drugs and drug candidates. The U.S. federal government and other governments have shown significant interest in pursuing health care reform. Any government-adopted reform measures could adversely affect the pricing of health care products, including our approved product and/or any future product candidates approved for sale. The continuing efforts of governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors for health care products to contain or reduce health care costs may adversely affect our ability to set prices we believe are fair for our products or any drugs we may develop and commercialize. New laws, regulations and judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations and decisions, relating to health care availability, methods of delivery or payment for drugs, or sales, marketing or pricing, may limit our potential revenues, and we may need to revise our research and development or commercialization programs. The pricing and reimbursement environment may change in the future and become more challenging for any of several reasons, including policies advanced by the U.S. government, new health care legislation or fiscal challenges faced by government health administration authorities. Specifically, in the United States and in some foreign jurisdictions there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals and initiatives to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell products. Some of these proposed and implemented reforms could result in reduced reimbursement rates for our current or future products, which would adversely affect our business, operations and financial results. As discussed above, the recently enacted ACA may have far reaching consequences for companies like us. As a result of this new legislation, substantial changes could be made to the current system for paying for health care in the United States, including changes made in order to extend medical benefits to those who currently lack health insurance coverage. Extending coverage to a large population could substantially change the structure of the health insurance system and the methodology for reimbursement. If reimbursement for our products is substantially less than we expect in the future, or rebate obligations associated with them are substantially increased, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Further federal and state proposals and health care reforms in and outside of the United States could limit the prices that can be charged for our products and may further limit our commercial opportunity. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the ACA, by the Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation, by the possible effect of such current or future legislation on amounts that private insurers will pay and by other health care reforms that may be enacted or adopted in the future. 47 Table of Contents Risks relating to our common stock Results of our operations, new clinical and safety data, FDA actions, general market conditions for biotechnology stocks and other factors could result in a sudden change in the value of our stock. As a biopharmaceutical company, we continue to experience significant volatility in the price of our common stock. In the twelve months ended December 31, 2013, our stock price ranged from a high of $23.00 per share to a low of $2.15 per share. In connection with our October 2013 announcements concerning the safety, marketing and commercial distribution and further clinical development of Iclusig in the United States, our stock price declined by 87%, from $17.14 per share before the announcements to a low of $2.15 per share following the announcements. Some of the many factors that could contribute to such volatility include: • actual or anticipated results of our commercialization and development of Iclusig in light of our announcements in the fourth quarter of 2013 concerning the revised prescribing information and safety, marketing and commercial distribution and further clinical development of Iclusig; • our plans for seeking marketing approval and the expected timing of any regulatory approvals of our product candidates, including approval of Iclusig outside of the United States and the European Union; • additional actual or anticipated actions taken by regulatory agencies that may impact Iclusig and our product candidates; • evidence of the safety or efficacy of Iclusig and our product candidates, including additional data on serious arterial thrombosis and serious venous occlusion of CML patients being treated with Iclusig or the occurrence of other serious adverse events; • litigation, including the securities class action and derivative lawsuits pending against us and certain of our officers; • announcements regarding results and timing of preclinical studies and clinical trials for our product candidates; • announcements of financial results and other operating performance measures, including product revenues; • our funding resources and requirements, including announcements of new equity or debt financings; • the timing of our receipt of, or our failure to receive, future milestones under our license agreements with our stent collaborators; • announcements regarding existing collaborations or new collaborations or our failure to enter into collaborations; • announcements regarding product developments or regulatory approvals obtained by companies developing competing products; • announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic product candidates; • developments relating to intellectual property rights, including licensing, litigation and governmental regulation; • healthcare or cost-containment legislation and public policy pronouncements; • sales of our common stock by us, our insiders or our other stockholders; • market conditions for biopharmaceutical stocks in general; and • general economic and market conditions. The stock markets, and the markets for biotechnology stocks in particular, have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Investors may not be able to sell when they desire due to insufficient buyer demand and may realize less than, or lose all of, their investment. 48 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law, provisions in our charter and bylaws and our shareholder rights plan could delay, discourage or make more difficult a third-party acquisition of control of us. Because we are a Delaware corporation, the certain provisions of Delaware law could delay, discourage or make more difficult a third-party acquisition of control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to stockholders or the stockholders regard it as such. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or DGCL, which prohibits certain “business combination” transactions (as defined in Section 203) with an “interested stockholder” (defined in Section 203 as a 15 percent or greater stockholder) for a period of three years after a stockholder becomes an “interested stockholder”, unless the attaining of “interested stockholder” status or the transaction is pre-approved by our board of directors, the transaction results in the attainment of at least an 85 percent ownership level by an acquirer or the transaction is later approved by our board of directors and by our stockholders by at least a 66 2/3 percent vote of our stockholders other than the “interested stockholder”, each as specifically provided in Section 203. In addition, because our board of directors is a classified board, as described below, Section 141(k)(1) of the DGCL provides that directors may only be removed by the stockholders and then only for “cause”. Further, Section 242(b)(1) of the DGCL provides that amendment of our certificate of incorporation requires that the amendment be determined by the board of directors to be advisable and be submitted by our board of directors to our stockholders for action by them and then approved by our stockholders holding a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws, each as currently in effect, also contain certain provisions that may delay, discourage or make more difficult a third-party acquisition of control of us: • a classified board of directors, with three classes of directors, each serving for a staggered three-year term, such that not all members of the board of directors may be elected at one time; • the authorized number of directors may be changed only by resolution of the board of directors; • any vacancies on the board of directors may only be filled by a majority of the directors then serving, although not a quorum, and not by the stockholders; • the ability of the board of directors to issue preferred stock that could dilute the stock ownership of a potential unsolicited acquirer and so possibly hinder an acquisition of control of us that is not approved by our board of directors, including through the use of preferred stock in connection with a shareholder rights plan which we could adopt by action of the board of directors; • record date-setting provisions for annual and special meetings of stockholders and actions by written consent, provisions regulating the conduct of meetings of stockholders and action by written consent, and “advance notice” timing and informational requirements for stockholder nominations to our board of directors at stockholder meetings or for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings or by written consent; and • the inability of our stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders, the limitation of matters to be acted upon at an annual meeting of stockholders to those matters proposed by the Company or properly brought before the meeting and the limitation of matters to be acted upon at a special meeting of stockholders to matters which we place on the agenda for the meeting. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan in the form of a Section 382 Rights Plan, designed to help protect and preserve our substantial tax attributes primarily associated with our NOLs and research tax credits under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code and related U.S. Treasury regulations. Although this is not the purpose of the Section 382 Rights Plan, it could have the effect of making it uneconomical for a third party to acquire us on a hostile basis. 49 Table of Contents These provisions of the DGCL, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and our Section 382 Rights Plan may delay, discourage or make more difficult certain types of transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the current market price, and might limit the ability of our stockholders to approve transactions that they think may be in their best interest. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 