Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks relating to our business and our common stock, together with the other information described herein. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business We have a long history of operating losses. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $122.7 million. We incurred net losses of $17.4 million, $15.9 million and $15.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. There can be no assurance that we will ever become profitable. Additionally, our independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph in its report on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 with respect to substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of that uncertainty. We will need to raise additional capital, which, if through equity securities placements, will result in further dilution of existing and future stockholders. Historically, we have met our short- and long-term cash needs through debt issuances, the sale of common stock or other convertible securities in private placements, because cash flow from operations has been insufficient to fund our operations. We received gross proceeds of $9.3 million from the issuance of secured notes and warrants to a group of private investors in January 2008. We received net proceeds of $6.2 million and $4.9 million from the issuances of common stock to groups of private investors in February 2007 and September 2007, respectively. We believe that we will need to raise additional amounts before December 31, 2008 to continue development and launch commercialization of our next generation UWB products. The amount necessary will depend upon the results of ongoing UWB development efforts and our Semiconductor and Systems businesses. Our future capital requirements will remain dependent upon these and other factors, including cash flow from operations, maintaining our gross margins at current or increased levels, continued progress in research and development programs, competing technological and market developments, and our ability to market our new products successfully. There can be no assurance that additional equity or debt financing, if required, will be available on acceptable terms or at all. Moreover, any equity financing or convertible debt financing would result in dilution to existing stockholders and could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. Currently we do not meet the requirements to remain listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. If we are delisted, it could, among other things, decrease the liquidity of our common stock, limit our ability to raise additional capital and accelerate the amounts due under our $20.8 million in outstanding principal notes at the option of the holders. Our voting common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market. There are various quantitative listing requirements for a company to remain listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, including maintaining a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share of common stock and stockholders’ equity of $2.5 million or market capitalization of at least $35 million. On August 15, 2007, the Nasdaq Stock Market notified us that for the previous 30 consecutive business days, the bid price of our common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share price requirement for continued inclusion under Nasdaq Marketplace Rules. We were initially given until February 11, 2008 to regain compliance. On February 12, 2008, we were then advised of an additional six months extension or until August 11, 2008 to attain compliance with the Nasdaq Capital Market $1.00 minimum bid price rule. At December 31, 2007, we had total stockholders’ equity of $1.1 million. If we do not maintain a market value in our securities of at least $35 million, we would likely receive an additional notification from the Nasdaq Capital Market that we were not in compliance with its continued listing criteria. If we do not regain compliance within the allotted compliance period, including any extensions that may be granted by the Nasdaq Capital Market, the Nasdaq Capital Market would notify us that our common stock would be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, eliminating the only established trading market for our shares. While we would then be entitled to appeal this determination to a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel and to request a hearing, any future failure. If we fail at such hearing in our efforts to retain our listing, we would be delisted. 10 If we are delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, we would be forced to list our shares on the OTC Electronic Bulletin Board or some other quotation medium, such as the pink sheets, depending on our ability to meet the specific listing requirements of the specific quotation system. As a result, an investor might find it more difficult to trade, or to obtain accurate price quotations for, such shares. Delisting might also reduce our ability to raise capital as well as the visibility, liquidity, and price of our voting common stock. If our common stock were not listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market or another established automated over-the-counter trading market in the United States, all amounts outstanding under our $20.8 million senior secured notes would become due and payable at the option of the holders. We do not now have and we may not have sufficient resources or access to additional capital at the time such demand is made to satisfy those note obligations at the time they become due. We are dependent upon a significant shareholder to meet certain of our financing needs, and there can be no assurance that this shareholder will continue to provide such financing. We have relied upon Carl Berg, a director and significant owner of our common stock, for interim financing needs. Mr. Berg has provided a personal guarantee to Samsung Semiconductor Inc., one of our contract ASSP manufacturers, to secure our working capital requirements for ASSP purchase order fulfillment and another personal guarantee to our bank in connection with our existing $6.5 million credit facility. In connection with this second guarantee, Mr. Berg maintains a security interest in all the Company’s assets, subject to the bank’s lien on our accounts receivable, and he has subordinated that security interest in our accounts receivable to the holders of our $20.8 million in debt. There can be no assurances that Mr. Berg will continue to provide such interim financing or personal guarantees, should we need additional funds or increased credit facilities with our vendors. We have a significant number of outstanding securities that will dilute existing stockholders upon conversion or exercise. At March 14, 2008, we had 3,161 shares of preferred stock issued and outstanding, 32,176,199 warrants and 5,498,543 options outstanding which are all exercisable for or convertible into shares of common stock. The 3,161 shares of preferred stock are convertible into 3,161,000 shares of our voting common stock. Furthermore, at March 14, 2008, 2,795,643 additional shares of common stock were available for grant to our employees, officers, directors and consultants under our current stock option and incentive plans. We also may issue additional shares in acquisitions. Any additional grant of options under existing or future plans or issuance of shares in connection with an acquisition will further dilute existing stockholders. Delays in product development could adversely affect our market position or customer relationships. We have experienced repeated delays in product development in the past and may experience similar future delays. Given the short product life cycles in the markets for certain products, any delay or unanticipated difficulty associated with new product introductions or product enhancements could cause us to lose customers, damage our competitive position and fail to achieve anticipated revenue targets. Prior delays have resulted from numerous factors, such as: · changing product specifications; · the discontinuation of certain third party components; · difficulties in hiring and retaining necessary personnel; · difficulties in reallocating engineering resources and other resource limitations; · difficulties with independent contractors; · changing market or competitive product requirements; · unanticipated engineering complexity; · undetected errors or failures in software and hardware prior to or after product releases; and · delays in the acceptance or shipment of products by customers. The development of new, technologically advanced products, including our significant investment in UWB, is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and highly skilled engineering and development personnel, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. In order to compete, we must be able to deliver to 11 customers products that are highly reliable, operate with the customer’s existing equipment, lower the customer’s costs of acquisition, installation and maintenance, and provide an overall cost-effective solution. We may not be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products successfully, if at all, or on a timely basis. Further, our new products may not gain market acceptance or we may not be able to respond effectively to competitors’ new products, technological changes or emerging industry standards. Our failure to respond effectively to technological changes would significantly harm our business. Finally, there can be no assurances we will be successful in our product development efforts. We rely on certain vendors for a significant portion of our manufacturing. If these vendors experience delays in the production and shipping of our products, this would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 83% of our products were manufactured on a turnkey basis by four vendors: BTW Inc., Furthertec Company Ltd., Samsung Semiconductor Inc. and Veris Manufacturing, the latter of which ceased production of our mixers in October 2007. If our ongoing vendors experience production or shipping problems for any reason, we in turn could experience delays in the production and shipping of our products, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. A significant portion of our semiconductor revenue is from products that are designed for consumer goods. To the extent that consumers do not purchase those products, demand for our products and our revenues will decline. A significant portion of our semiconductor revenue is subject to risks associated with sales of certain end products through retail outlets, with a majority of such sales occurring from October through December. As a result, our annual operating results with respect to sales of our semiconductor chips incorporated as components of consumer products depend, in large part, on the quantity of anticipated consumer demand for certain end products during the relatively brief holiday season. We are dependent on our suppliers. If our suppliers experience labor problems, supply shortages or product discontinuations, this would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We purchase all of our parts from outside suppliers and from time-to-time experience delays in obtaining some components or peripheral devices. Additionally, we are dependent on sole source suppliers for certain components. There can be no assurance that labor problems, supply shortages or product discontinuations will not occur in the future, which could significantly increase the cost, delay shipment, or cause us to cease production of our products, which, in turn could adversely affect our results of operations. If we fail to meet certain covenants required by our credit facility, we may not be able to draw down on such facility and our ability to finance our operations could be adversely affected. We have access to a $6.5 million credit facility with our bank. The various agreements in connection with the credit facility requires us to maintain certain covenants. At December 31, 2007, we were in compliance with all covenants, including the net loss covenant. In the event we violate any covenants and are not able to obtain a waiver, we will not be able to draw down on the line of credit or term loan, and any amounts outstanding under such line of credit or term loan may become immediately due and payable. Either event could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operation. Furthermore, the restrictions contained in any of our credit facility documents, as well as the terms of other indebtedness we may incur from time-to-time, could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans. These restrictions could also adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, meet other capital needs, or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. Certain events will result in our senior secured notes becoming due and payable prior to maturity or will require us to repurchase those senior secured notes prior to maturity, either of which would adversely affect our ability to finance our operations. 12 Our senior secured notes, due January 1, 2011, provide that if we, among other things: (i) default on any principal or interest payment on our senior secured notes; (ii) fail to comply with any of our covenants in the documents governing the issuance of our senior secured notes; (iii) do not pay at final maturity (either at stated maturity or upon acceleration) any of our other indebtedness with an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 million, then the outstanding principal and accrued interest on all such senior secured notes will become due and payable. In addition, the senior secured notes provide that, upon the occurrence of any of the following events, the holders of the notes will have the right to require us to repurchase any or all of such notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest: (i) failure of our common stock to be traded on a national securities exchange, Nasdaq Stock Market or another established automated over-the-counter trading market in the United States or (ii) acquisition of more than 50% of our outstanding voting stock or merger with another company if our then existing shareholders do not continue to own a majority of our outstanding voting stock. As of March 14, 2008, we owed $20.8 million under these senior secured notes. Repayment of this amount prior to the stated maturity would adversely impact our ability to finance our operations or other capital needs. If we are unable to renew or extend our existing credit facilities upon their expiration dates, our ability to finance our operations could be adversely affected. On February 22, 2008, we replaced our existing credit facility for $6.5 million with Greater Bay Bank with a new credit facility in an equal amount at the Heritage Bank of Commerce. This new facility at Heritage Bank of Commerce is guaranteed by Carl Berg, as described above. Our $6.5 million credit facility entered into on February 22, 2008 expires on February 21, 2009. If we are unable to renew the new credit facility on favorable terms upon expiration, we would be required to immediately pay all outstanding obligations under this facility. Repayment of the principal amounts and interest due could adversely affect our other capital requirements, as well as our ability to finance our operations on an ongoing basis. We depend on a few customers for a high percentage of our revenues, and the loss or failure to pay of any one of these customers could result in a substantial decline in our revenues and margins and affect our cash flow. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our five largest customers collectively provided 34% of our total revenue, and as of December 31, 2007, comprised 42% of our accounts receivable balance. Sales to one customer accounted for 13% of our revenue in the year ended December 31, 2007. We do not have long-term contracts requiring any customer to purchase any minimum amount of products. There can be no assurance that we will continue to receive orders of the same magnitude as in the past from existing customers or will be able to market our current or proposed products to new customers to obtain similar revenues. The loss of any major customer, the failure of any major customer to pay us, or failure of a major customer to issue additional purchase orders, would have a material adverse effect on our revenue, results of operation, and business as a whole, absent the timely replacement of the associated revenues and gross margins associated with such business. Furthermore, since many of our semiconductor products are integrated into our customers’ products, these products are dependent upon the overall success of our customers’ products, over which we have no control. The loss of certain of our key personnel and any future potential losses of key personnel or our failure to attract additional personnel could seriously harm our company. We rely upon the continued service of a relatively small number of key technical, sales and senior management personnel. Our future success depends on retaining our key employees and our ability to retain, attract and train other highly qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel. Additional changes to our organizational structure may result in further voluntary and involuntary attrition and loss of key personnel. Our employees can typically resign with little or no prior notice. Our loss of any of our key technical, sales and senior management personnel, and the intellectual capital that they possess, or our inability to retain, attract and train additional qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. 13 Our quarterly financial results are subject to significant fluctuations, and if actual revenues are less than projected revenues, we may be unable to reduce expenses proportionately, and our operating results, cash flows and liquidity would likely be adversely affected. We have been unable in the past to forecast accurately our operating expenses and revenue. Revenues currently depend heavily on volatile customer purchasing patterns. If actual revenues are less than projected revenues, we may be unable to reduce expenses proportionately, and our operating results, cash flows and liquidity would likely be adversely affected. Our markets are subject to rapid technological change, and to compete effectively in the absence of profitable operations, we must continually introduce new products, requiring a significant influx of additional capital. Many of our markets are characterized by extensive research and development and rapid technological change resulting in short product life cycles. Development by others of better, new or improved products, processes or technologies may make our products or proposed products obsolete or less competitive. We must devote substantial efforts and financial resources to enhance our existing products and to develop new products, such as our significant investment in UWB technology. To fund such ongoing research and development in the absence of profitable operations, we will require a significant influx of additional capital. There can be no assurance that we will succeed with these efforts. Failure to effectively develop such products, notably our UWB technology, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to protect our proprietary information. As of December 31, 2007, we held five patents and had submitted five pending applications in the United States. Certain of these patents have also been filed and issued in countries outside the United States. We treat our technical data as confidential and rely on internal non-disclosure safeguards, including confidentiality agreements with employees, and on laws protecting trade secrets, to protect our proprietary information. There can be no assurance that these measures will adequately protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information or prove valuable in light of future technological developments. In addition, we occasionally receive notices by third parties of claims regarding infringement by our products of intellectual property rights held by such third parties. Since 2001, we have not had to engage in any material litigation or incur material expenses regarding such claims. However, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future or that such claims will not result in costly litigation or require us to license intellectual proprietary rights from third parties. In addition, there can be no assurance that any such licenses would be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to respond to rapid technological change in a timely manner, then we may lose customers to our competitors. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality and features of our products. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change, changes in user and customer requirements and preferences and frequent new product and service introductions. If competitors introduce products and services embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, then our existing proprietary technology and systems may become obsolete. Our future success will depend on our ability to do the following: · both license and internally develop leading technologies useful in our business; · enhance our existing technologies; · develop new services and technology that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective customers; and · respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. Developing proprietary technology entails significant technical and business risks. We may use new technologies ineffectively, or we may fail to adapt our proprietary technology and transaction processing systems to customer requirements or emerging industry standards. If we face material delays in introducing new services, products and enhancements, then our customers may abandon our products and use of our services replacing them with those of our 14 competitors. We typically operate without a significant amount of backlog, which could have an adverse impact on our operating results. We typically operate with a small amount of backlog. Accordingly, we generally do not have a material backlog of unfilled orders, and revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent on orders booked in that quarter. Any significant weakening in current customer demand for any of our primary products would therefore have, and has had in the past, an almost immediate adverse impact on our operating results. Our common stock price is volatile. The market price for our voting common stock is volatile and has fluctuated significantly to date. For example, between January 1, 2007 and March 14, 2008, the per share price has fluctuated between $0.33 and $1.57 per share, closing at $0.39 on March 14, 2008. The trading price of our voting common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors including the following: · actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; · announcements of technological innovations or failures, new sales formats or new products or services by us or our competitors; · cyclical nature of consumer products using our technology; · changes in financial estimates by us or securities analysts; · changes in the economic performance and/or market valuations of other multi-media, or fabless semiconductor companies; · announcements by us of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · additions or departures of key personnel; · additions or losses of significant customers; and · sales of common stock or issuance of other dilutive securities. In addition, the securities markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent times, and the market prices of the securities of technology companies have been especially volatile. These broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of stock, many companies have been the object of securities class action litigation, including us. If we are subject to a securities class action, then it could result in additional substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Any acquisitions of companies or technologies by us may result in distraction of our management and disruptions to our business. We may acquire or make investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products if appropriate opportunities arise. From time-to-time, we may engage in discussions and negotiations with companies regarding the possibility of acquiring or investing in their businesses, products, services or technologies. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates in the future, or if we do identify suitable candidates, we may not be able to make such acquisitions or investments on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. If we acquire or invest in another company, we could have difficulty assimilating that company’s personnel, operations, technology or products and service offerings. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and adversely otherwise affect operations. Furthermore, we may incur indebtedness or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions and/or pay for the legal, accounting or finders fees typically associated with an acquisition. The issuance of equity securities could be dilutive to our existing stockholders. In addition, the accounting treatment for any acquisition transaction may result in accounting for significant goodwill and intangible assets, which, if impaired, will adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. The accounting treatment for any potential acquisition may also result in a charge for in-process research and development expense, which will negatively affect our consolidated results of operations. 15 We are exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate financial controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls. We will file a management report on our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report for the year ended December 31, 2007. However, we will not be required to file an auditor’s attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting until we file our annual report for the year ending December 31, 2008. Compliance with Section 404 has been and will continue to be expensive and time-consuming. We estimate that we will pay third parties approximately $140,000 to assist us with preparation of our management report due with the filing of our December 31, 2007 annual report and an additional $300,000 to comply with the management report and auditor attestation report due with the filing of our December 31, 2008 annual report. If we fail to complete this evaluation in a timely manner, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot timely attest to our evaluation, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Risks Related to Our Industry International sales are subject to significant risk. Our revenues from outside the United States are subject to inherent risks related thereto, including currency rate fluctuations, and the general economic and political conditions in each country. There can be no assurance that an economic or currency crisis experienced in certain parts of the world will not reduce demand for our products and therefore have a material adverse effect on our revenue or operating results. Our businesses are very competitive. The computer peripheral and semiconductor markets are extremely competitive. We currently compete with other developers of video conversion products and with video-graphic integrated circuit developers. Many of our competitors have greater market recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing and human resources. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against existing companies or new entrants to the marketplace. Our markets are also characterized by rapid technological change, new product development and obsolescence, and evolving industry standards. Competition is fragmented with several hundred manufacturers supplying a variety of products. We anticipate increased competition from both existing manufacturers and new market entrants. Competition and rapid technological advances could result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors in these markets. In addition, some of our competitors also offer a wide variety of product offerings which may confer a competitive advantage based upon their ability either to bundle their equipment in certain large system sales or combine products more cost effectively than we can offer. We are exposed to general economic conditions that have resulted in reduced sales levels. If such adverse economic conditions were to continue or worsen, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely impacted. If the currently adverse economic conditions in the United States and throughout the world economy continue or worsen, we may continue to experience a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We continue to take actions and charges to reduce our cost of sales and operating expenses in order to address these adverse conditions. However, a prolonged continuation or worsening of existing trends may require additional actions and charges to reduce cost of sales and operating expenses in subsequent quarters. We may be unable to reduce cost of sales and operating expenses at a rate and to a level consistent with such a future adverse sales environment. If we must undertake further expense reductions, we may incur significant incremental special charges associated with such expense reductions that are disproportionate to sales, thereby adversely affecting our business, financial condition and operating results. Continuing weakness in the economy could decrease demand for our products, increase delinquencies in payments and otherwise have an adverse impact on our business. 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 