ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS THE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES DESCRIBED BELOW ARE THOSE THAT WE CURRENTLY BELIEVE MAY MATERIALLY AFFECT OUR COMPANY. IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING RISKS ACTUALLY OCCUR, THEY MAY MATERIALLY HARM OUR BUSINESS, OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Risks Relating to Our Business We have no product candidates that have been approved by the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority, and we and our partners may never succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for any products, developing marketable products or generating product revenues. We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery and development of drugs to provide therapeutic intervention in treating human diseases at the cellular level. As with all scientific endeavors, we face much trial and error, and we may fail at numerous stages along the way, which would inhibit us from successfully developing, manufacturing and marketing our drug candidates. Our lead product candidate, deforolimus, is currently being developed by us in collaboration with Merck for cancer indications and by our partners, Medinol and ICON, for use in stents or other medical devices to reduce reblockage of injured vessels following interventions in which stents are used in conjunction with balloon angioplasty. We initiated the SUCCEED Phase 3 clinical trial of deforolimus in patients with metastatic sarcoma in the third quarter of 2007. Deforolimus is also in Phase lb and 2 clinical trials for certain other cancers, and we expect to start additional clinical trials of deforolimus in 2008 in multiple cancer indications. We filed an IND for AP24534 in late 2007, and we expect to initiate two Phase 1 trials of AP24534 in 2008. We do not currently have any products on the market and have no product revenues. Therefore, our success is substantially dependent on (1) our ability to work in collaboration with Merck to obtain marketing approval for deforolimus for metastatic sarcoma and other cancer indications, (2) the ability of our partners, Medinol and ICON, to obtain marketing approval for stents or other medical devices delivering deforolimus, and (3) our ability to successfully initiate and complete clinical development and obtain marketing approval for AP24534. Neither we nor our partners have submitted any new drug applications for deforolimus, AP24534 or any other product candidate of ours to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities for marketing approval. Factors which could affect the ability to obtain regulatory approval and to achieve market acceptance and gain market share for deforolimus, AP24534 and any other product candidate of ours include, among other factors, product formulation, dose, dosage regimen, the ability to obtain timely and sufficient patient enrollment in clinical trials, the risk of occurrence of adverse side effects in patients participating in clinical trials, the ability to manufacture, directly or indirectly, sufficient and cost-effective quantities of product candidates, the ability to fund commercial development and to build or access a sales force in the marketplace, the ability to successfully differentiate product candidates from competitive product(s) and to sell, market and distribute, directly or indirectly, such product candidates. 16 In addition, positive results from early-stage clinical trials may not be replicated in later-stage Phase 3 clinical trials. Similarly, positive results from preclinical studies of a product candidate may not be predictive of similar results in humans during clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in early-stage development. Accordingly, the results from the completed preclinical studies and clinical trials for deforolimus may not be predictive of the results to be obtained in the SUCCEED Phase 3 clinical trial, and the promising activity we have seen in AP24534 in preclinical studies may not be predictive of the results obtained in clinical trials. Although we have entered into a collaboration agreement with Merck for the joint global development and commercialization of deforolimus, we do not currently have any partners to assist in developing and commercializing our other cancer product candidates. We will depend heavily on Merck for the successful development and commercialization of deforolimus, particularly with respect to the commercialization of deforolimus outside of the United States. We would expect to be dependent upon other partners, if we enter into arrangements with one or more of them, to successfully develop and commercialize our other cancer product candidates, including AP24534. There can be no assurance that our collaboration with Merck will be successful or that we will be able to secure any other partners on terms favorable to us, or at all. We and our medical device partners have limited experience in designing, conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approval of stents or other medical devices that deliver small-molecule drugs. We are dependent upon the success of Medinol and ICON and any future medical device partner to successfully develop, manufacture and market stents or other medical devices to deliver deforolimus to reduce blockage of injured vessels following interventions in which stents are used in conjunction with balloon angioplasty. If Medinol or ICON is not successful and/or if we are not able to enter into an agreement with an additional medical device company experienced in the development, manufacture, and marketing of medical devices to deliver deforolimus, we will not be able to generate revenues from the marketing of stents or other medical devices that deliver deforolimus. We do not expect to have any products on the market before 2010, at the earliest, and, ultimately, we and our partners may not have any products on the market for several years, if at all. We and our partners may not succeed in developing or commercializing any products which will generate product revenues for our company. If we and our partners are not successful in developing or marketing deforolimus or other product candidates, we will not be profitable. If our collaboration with Merck relating to the development and commercialization of deforolimus is unsuccessful, our ability to commercialize deforolimus on a timely basis, or at all, could be affected and our business could be materially harmed. In July 2007, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Merck for the joint global development and commercialization of deforolimus, our lead product candidate, for use in cancer. Other than with respect to our collaborative efforts in developing deforolimus to date, we do not have a history of working together with Merck and cannot predict the success of this collaboration. The collaboration involves a complex allocation of responsibilities, costs and benefits and provides for milestone payments to us upon the achievement of specified clinical, regulatory and sales milestones. 17 With respect to responsibilities and control over decisions, we and Merck have established a series of joint committees which are responsible for the development and commercialization of deforolimus. Under the committee structure, if the committees are unable to reach a decision, the matter is referred to senior executives of the parties. Each party has ultimate decision making authority with respect to a specified limited set of issues, and for all other issues, the matter must be resolved by consensus of the parties. Accordingly, Merck’s failure to devote sufficient resources to the development and commercialization of deforolimus or the failure of the parties to reach consensus on development or commercialization activities may delay its clinical development, which could lead to the delay in payment of clinical and regulatory milestones under the collaboration agreement and may delay commercialization of deforolimus. In addition, the collaboration agreement provides that, in certain circumstances, either party may opt out of conducting and funding certain late-stage clinical trials, which would result in changes in development and commercialization responsibilities and compensation arrangements. Furthermore, the collaboration agreement may be terminated by Merck (i) based on an uncured breach by us, (ii) on or after the third anniversary of the effective date of the agreement by providing at least 12 months prior written notice, (iii) upon the failure of deforolimus to meet certain developmental and safety requirements, or (iv) after discussions between the parties, in the event Merck concludes that it is not advisable to continue the development of deforolimus for use in a cancer indication. Any loss of Merck as a collaborator in the development or commercialization of deforolimus, any dispute over the terms of, or decisions regarding, the collaboration, or any other adverse developments in our relationship with Merck could result in our inability to fully develop and/or commercialize deforolimus, or at all, could materially harm our business and could accelerate our need for additional capital. Insufficient funding may jeopardize our research and development programs and may require us to reduce our operations or prevent commercialization of our products and technologies. We have funded our operations to date through sales of equity securities, debt, the upfront and milestone payments received from Merck in 2007, and, to a limited extent, operating revenues. Most of our operating revenue to date has been generated through previous collaborative research and development agreements and existing licenses. Although our collaboration agreement with Merck for the global development and commercialization of deforolimus is structured to provide substantial funding for the remaining development of deforolimus if we are successful in meeting specified milestones, we will require substantial additional funding for our other research and development programs (including pre-clinical development and clinical trials), for the pursuit of regulatory approvals and for establishing or accessing manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities related to other product candidates, and for other operating expenses (including intellectual property protection and enforcement) as well as capital expenditures to maintain and improve our facility, equipment and systems. We may from time to time access funding by issuing other securities in private placements or under our universal shelf registration statement under which we had $87.5 million available for issuance at December 31, 2007. We may also access funding from our equity financing facility with Azimuth Opportunity Ltd., or Azimuth, under which there remains $37.5 million available to us, which we can access, subject to certain terms and conditions including a minimum price of $3.00 per share below which Azimuth is not required to purchase shares of our common stock; any shares sold under this facility would be issued from our existing shelf registration statement. We may also from time to time seek additional funding from other product-based collaborations, technology licensing, issuance of debt, and public or private financings. However, such additional funding may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Accordingly, we may not be able to secure the significant funding which is required to maintain our operations or continue to fund current or future research and development programs at their current levels or at levels that may be required in the future. If we cannot secure adequate financing, we may be required to reduce our operations, to delay, scale back, eliminate or terminate clinical trials for one or more of our other research and development programs, or to enter into licenses, settlements or other arrangements with third parties on terms that may be unfavorable to us to purchase, commercialize or otherwise obtain rights in our products, technologies or intellectual property. 18 We have incurred significant losses to date and may never be profitable. We have incurred significant operating losses in each year since our formation in 1991 and have an accumulated deficit of $367.5 million through December 31, 2007. Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in research and development of our product candidates, including clinical development of deforolimus and preclinical development of AP24534, and from general and administrative costs, including costs incurred to prosecute and protect our intellectual property, associated with our operations. Although the collaboration with Merck is structured so that the expected milestone payments to be paid by Merck to us should largely offset our share of the costs of development of deforolimus over the first three years of the collaboration, it is likely that we will incur significant operating losses for the foreseeable future, and we expect such losses to increase as we advance AP24534 into clinical trials and begin to build a sales and marketing organization in anticipation of obtaining regulatory approval to market deforolimus in the United States, which approval may never occur. We currently have no product revenues, limited license revenues and limited commitments for future licensing revenues, and may not be able to generate such revenues in the future. If our losses continue and we and our existing partners or potential future partners are unable to successfully develop, commercialize, manufacture and market our product candidates and/or we are unable to enter into agreements and licenses of our intellectual property, we may never generate sufficient revenues to achieve profitability. Even if we and our partners are able to commercialize products and we are able to enter into agreements or licenses in the future, we may never generate sufficient revenues to have profitable operations. We have limited manufacturing experience and are dependent upon the ability of third parties, including Merck, to manufacture our product candidates, which raises uncertainty as to our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates. Under our collaboration with Merck, we are responsible for providing the active pharmaceutical ingredient used in deforolimus drug product and Merck will be responsible for the formulation of the finished product. Under our agreements with Medinol and ICON, we are responsible for providing the deforolimus to be delivered by the stents or medical devices being developed by Medinol and ICON. We have no experience in manufacturing any of our product candidates on a large scale and have contracted and expect to continue to contract with third party manufacturers, including Merck, to provide material for clinical trials and potential commercial launch, and to assist in the development and optimization of our manufacturing processes and methods. Our ability to conduct clinical trials and commercialize our product candidates will depend on the ability of such third parties to manufacture our products on a large scale at a competitive cost and in accordance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs, and other regulatory requirements. If we are not able to obtain contract manufacturing on commercially reasonable terms, obtain or develop the necessary materials and technologies for manufacturing, or obtain intellectual property rights necessary for manufacturing, or if our contract manufacturers fail to provide us with the quantities and quality of the products we require in a timely manner, we may not be able to conduct or complete clinical trials or commercialize our product candidates, including deforolimus. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such requisite terms, materials, technologies and intellectual property necessary to successfully manufacture our product candidates for clinical trials or commercialization. We have limited experience in conducting clinical trials and are dependent upon the ability of third parties, including Merck, contract research organizations, collaborative academic groups, clinical trial sites and investigators, to conduct or to assist us in conducting clinical trials for our product candidates, which raises uncertainty as to our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates. We have limited experience in designing, initiating, conducting and monitoring the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates. Our collaboration agreement with Merck provides that the development and commercialization of deforolimus, our lead product candidate, will be jointly conducted pursuant to a global development plan. Pursuant to the global development plan, in the third quarter of 2007, we initiated the SUCCEED Phase 3 clinical trial of deforolimus in patients with metastatic sarcoma. Deforolimus is also in Phase lb and 2 clinical trials for certain other cancers, and we expect to start additional clinical trials of deforolimus in 2008 in multiple cancer indications. Together with the efforts of Merck, contract research organizations, advisory boards, review committees, collaborative academic groups, clinical trial sites and investigators, we are heavily dependent on our and their ability to successfully initiate, enroll, conduct and monitor our SUCCEED Phase 3 clinical trial and other clinical trials of deforolimus, particularly outside the United States. In particular, we are dependent upon the review, advice and/or services of several independent committees, consultants and contractors with respect to protocol design, patient enrollment, data monitoring, radiology review, pathology and drug distribution to clinical trial sites for our SUCCEED trial and other clinical trials of deforolimus. We are also dependent upon our ability and the ability of Merck and our contractors to coordinate with us and to timely and accurately collect and report to regulatory authorities worldwide the patient data generated in our SUCEED trial and other clinical trials of deforolimus. We, Merck, and our respective contractors, collaborative academic groups, clinical trial sites or investigators may lack sufficient personnel, technology, expertise, experience or resources to effectively initiate clinical trial sites, recruit and enroll patients, conduct and monitor clinical trials, and to collect and report patient data relating to our SUCCEED trial or other clinical trials of deforolimus, either generally or in specific countries. We also filed an IND for AP24534 in late 2007, and we expect to initiate two Phase 1 trials of AP24534 in 2008. We do not currently have a commercial partner for the development of AP24534 and are dependent upon our ability and/or the ability of our contractors, collaborative academic groups, clinical trial sites and investigators, to successfully design, initiate, conduct and monitor clinical trials of AP24534. Failure by us or our partners, contractors, collaborative academic groups, clinical trial sites or investigators to timely and effectively initiate, conduct and monitor our clinical trials could significantly delay or materially impair our ability to complete clinical trials and/or obtain regulatory approval of deforolimus, AP24534 or our other product candidates and, consequently, could delay or materially impair our ability to generate revenues therefrom. 19 We will continue to expend significant resources on the enforcement and licensing of our NF-κB patent portfolio and may be unable to generate material revenues from these efforts if we are unable to enforce against, or license our NF-κB patents to, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. We are the exclusive licensee of a family of patents, three in the U.S. and one in Europe, including a pioneering U.S. patent covering methods of treating human disease by regulating NF-κB cell-signaling activity, hereinafter referred to as the ’516 Patent, awarded to a team of inventors from The Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard University. Dr. David Baltimore, the former president of the California Institute of Technology and one of our consultants and scientific founders, is a lead inventor of the ’516 Patent and a member of the board of directors of Amgen Inc. We have a licensing program to generate revenues from the discovery, development, manufacture and sale of products covered by our NF-κB patent portfolio. These patents have been, and in the future may be, challenged and may be subsequently narrowed, invalidated, declared unenforceable or circumvented, any of which could materially impact our ability to generate licensing revenues from them. We are currently engaged in two litigations concerning the ‘516 Patent. Together with the academic institutions, we filed a lawsuit in June 2002 in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts, against Lilly, alleging infringement of certain claims of the ’516 Patent through sales of Lilly’s osteoporosis drug, Evista ®, and its septic shock drug, Xigris®. Both a jury and a bench trial were held in this case in 2006. We prevailed with favorable verdicts in both trials followed by entry of a final Judgment in September 20007. Lilly then filed a notice of appeal on March 10, 2008. We are also the defendant in a lawsuit filed by Amgen and certain affiliated entities in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware seeking a declaratory judgment that each of the claims contained in the ’516 Patent is invalid and that Amgen has not infringed any of the claims of the ’516 Patent based on activities related to Amgen’s products, Enbrel ® and Kineret ®. We have filed a counterclaim against Amgen, and, for purposes of trial, we are alleging infringement of the ‘516 Patent based on activities related to Enbrel. In addition, upon requests filed by Lilly and by a third party, the PTO is reexamining the patentability of certain claims of the ’516 Patent in reexamination proceedings that are currently pending. See a description of the status of these matters in the section entitled “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot provide any assurance that other third parties, who may be infringing our NF-κB patents, will not seek to initiate similar, further proceedings for declaratory relief or reexamination with regard to the ’516 Patent or other NF-κB patents. As exclusive licensee of the ’516 Patent, we are obligated for the costs expended for its prosecution in the PTO, for its enforcement in the above noted litigations and otherwise. Therefore, we will continue to expend significant capital and management resources pursuing these matters in court and in the reexamination process in the PTO, and the outcome is uncertain. If some of the claims of the ’516 Patent are invalidated by the PTO or in the courts or found not to be infringed in these matters, we will not realize any revenues on sales of the above-named products, and could be liable under certain limited circumstances in these litigation proceedings for litigation costs and potentially attorneys’ fees. Additionally, although we have prevailed in the jury and bench trials in the Lilly litigation, the damages awarded to us and the other Plaintiffs could be subsequently eliminated or limited by an adverse ruling upon appeal, or in the event that the claims of the ’516 Patent are invalidated at trial or on appeal in the Amgen litigation or by the PTO. Invalidation of any of the claims of the ’516 Patent by the PTO or in the courts would have a significant adverse impact on our ability to generate revenues from our NF-κB licensing program from any potential licensee. Moreover, significant expenditures to enforce these patent rights, particularly with respect to the pending litigation initiated by Amgen, without generating revenues or accessing additional capital or other funding, could adversely impact our ability to further our clinical programs and our research and development programs at the current levels or at levels that may be required in the future. 20 Because we do not own all of the outstanding stock of our subsidiary, AGTI, we will not realize all of the potential future economic benefit from products developed based on technology licensed to or owned by AGTI. Our 80%-owned subsidiary, AGTI, holds licenses from Harvard University, Stanford University and other universities relating to the ARGENT cell-signaling regulation technology, and owns the intellectual property on mTOR inhibitors derived from the ARGENT programs, including deforolimus. The two directors of AGTI, Harvey J. Berger, M.D., our Chief Executive Officer, and Jay R. LaMarche, our former Chief Financial Officer, are also members of our Board of Directors. Minority stockholders of AGTI, including Harvard University, Stanford University, Dr. Berger, Mr. LaMarche, several of our scientific advisors, and several other current and former members of our management own 20% of the issued and outstanding common stock of AGTI. We do not have a license agreement with AGTI that provides us with rights to commercialize product candidates based on the ARGENT cell-signaling regulation technology or mTOR inhibitors derived from AGTI’s programs, solely for our benefit, as opposed to the benefit of AGTI. All of the research and development activities of AGTI, including the development of deforolimus, have been conducted by us on behalf of AGTI pursuant to a research and development agreement. The purpose of the agreement is to allow AGTI to develop products based on its technology, and AGTI owns all improvements to its technology developed by us. The agreement provides that, upon demand by us, AGTI will either advance funds to us or reimburse us, on a cost plus 10% basis, for all funds advanced by us associated with the cost of our research and development activities on its behalf. However, AGTI has no independent funding or capital resources, and we have funded all research and development services on AGTI’s behalf since its inception in 1994. As a result, we have accrued an inter-company receivable totaling approximately $129 million as of December 31, 2007. The inter-company receivable on our books and records and the related payable on the books of AGTI are eliminated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in our consolidated financial statements. We expect our inter-company receivable from AGTI to continue to increase as we seek to further advance the development of deforolimus. In addition, we have spent approximately $6.8 million through December 31, 2007, and expect to spend significant additional amounts, on pre-launch and other commercialization-related activities for deforolimus. The research and development agreement does not provide a mechanism for establishing a marketing plan or undertaking commercial activities on behalf of AGTI or for the reimbursement by AGTI to us of expenditures for such activities. Other than repayment of the amounts advanced by us on a cost plus 10% fee basis, we are not entitled to receive from AGTI any rights or other remuneration under the research and development agreement, and, accordingly, our future economic benefit from the commercialization of such products on behalf of AGTI will only be in the form of dividends or other payments received in respect of our 80% ownership interest in AGTI. Consequently, as the inter-company receivable has increased to fund the development of deforolimus, in order to maximize the value of ARIAD for our stockholders and to mitigate or eliminate the conflicts of interest which currently exist between ARIAD and AGTI, the independent members of our Board of Directors (all of ARIAD’s Board members other than Dr. Berger and Mr. LaMarche) are currently engaged in evaluating a variety of strategic alternatives with respect to acquiring the 20% minority interest of AGTI that we do not own and have hired independent legal counsel and financial consultants to assist them in their evaluation. Considerations being taken into account by the independent members of the Board in determining whether to acquire the 20% minority interest include the magnitude of our receivable from AGTI, which is expected to continue to increase, the expectation that the perceived value of the 20% minority interest of AGTI will likely increase as the clinical development of deforolimus progresses, the conflicts of interest that exist between ARIAD and AGTI, and the fact that we advance 100% of the research and development costs for deforolimus to AGTI but are only entitled to receive reimbursement of costs plus a 10% fee, together with whatever benefit may be received through our 80% ownership of AGTI. We anticipate that in the context of valuing the 20% minority interest in AGTI for purposes of a possible acquisition of the stock of the minority shareholders, the inter-company receivable from AGTI will be taken into consideration. 21 If ARIAD’s independent and disinterested directors determine it to be in the best interests of ARIAD’s stockholders to commercialize these product candidates solely for ARIAD’s own benefit, ARIAD may seek to negotiate with AGTI and/or its minority stockholders to obtain a license, on terms to be determined, granting ARIAD the rights to commercialize such product candidates and technologies. If we were to enter into such a license, the future economic benefit to ARIAD from the commercialization of such products, if any, will be diminished by any royalties or other payments paid under a future agreement with AGTI. If ARIAD does not enter into such a license, then the future economic benefit to ARIAD from the commercialization of such products on behalf of AGTI will only be in the form of dividends or other payments received in respect of ARIAD’s 80% ownership interest in AGTI. Alternatively, if ARIAD’s independent and disinterested directors determine it to be in the best interests of ARIAD’s stockholders, ARIAD may seek to acquire some or all of the interests of the minority stockholders in AGTI for cash, shares of ARIAD’s common stock, or other securities in a merger, exchange offer or other transaction. If ARIAD acquires all of the interests of the minority stockholders in AGTI, then ARIAD will receive all of the future economic benefit from the commercialization of such products on its own behalf to the extent that the securities or other consideration exchanged by ARIAD in the transaction do not entitle the minority stockholders of AGTI to continue to receive payments on a contingent and/or installment basis. If ARIAD acquires these minority interests, we anticipate that this transaction will require the incurrence of significant transaction costs, which are currently unknown, and if the consideration exchanged for these minority interests is in the form of equity of ARIAD, we anticipate that this transaction will result in dilution to ARIAD’s stockholders. On January 13, 2004, ARIAD acquired an additional 351,909 shares of AGTI common stock, representing approximately 6% of AGTI’s outstanding common stock, for a total purchase price of approximately $8.8 million, effected through the reduction of inter-company debt, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances, in order to maintain ARIAD’s 80% interest in AGTI. While such valuation was recommended by the Company and approved based on a good-faith determination made by the independent and disinterested members of ARIAD’s Board of Directors as of that date, the economic value of the minority stockholders’ interests is difficult to quantify in the absence of a public market. If ARIAD acquires all of the interests of the minority stockholders in AGTI, a variety of valuation methodologies may be employed to determine the value per share of AGTI common stock. Factors impacting this valuation would include the progress, likelihood and cost of development and commercialization of deforolimus and other product candidates and technologies, potential future income streams therefrom, availability of funding and other factors. If ARIAD acquires the minority interests for consideration valued in excess of the value implicitly attributed to such AGTI shares by the market, which implicit value is difficult to determine, this could result in a decline in ARIAD’s stock price. If ARIAD chooses to acquire some or all of these minority interests through a merger in which ARIAD does not solicit the consent of all of the minority stockholders of AGTI, ARIAD could become subject to litigation or an appraisal procedure, which would result in additional expense and diversion of management resources. As noted above, the independent and disinterested members of ARIAD’s Board of Directors have engaged legal counsel and financial consultants to help them evaluate strategic alternatives with respect to acquiring the 20% minority interest of AGTI that ARIAD does not own, and ARIAD’s independent and disinterested directors may engage other advisors to assist them with such evaluation. While this evaluation is currently ongoing, there can be no assurance that ARIAD will, at any time, enter into a transaction with AGTI as a result of this evaluation. If any of these strategic options is pursued as a result of the evaluation by ARIAD’s independent and disinterested directors, there can be no assurance as to the timing of any such transaction, the form of such transaction, the particular transaction terms such as the form, amount or timing of payment of consideration offered or provided by ARIAD to the minority stockholders in AGTI, ARIAD’s ability to effectuate any such transaction, or the consequences of any such proposed or completed transaction to ARIAD or the AGTI minority stockholders. 22 Because members of ARIAD’s management team and/or Board of Directors beneficially own a material percentage of the capital stock of its subsidiary, AGTI, and ARIAD has agreements with AGTI, there are conflicts of interest present in dealings between ARIAD and AGTI. Three members of ARIAD’s management team and/or Board of Directors own approximately 5.4% of the outstanding capital stock of AGTI. Harvey J. Berger, M.D., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, owns 3.2%, John D. Iuliucci, Ph.D., Senior Vice President and Chief Development Officer, owns 0.6% and Jay R. LaMarche, one of ARIAD’s directors and former Chief Financial Officer, owns 1.6%. These same individuals beneficially own an aggregate of approximately 3.1% of ARIAD’s outstanding common stock. David L. Berstein, Esq., our former Chief Patent Counsel and current consultant to ARIAD, owns 0.3% of the outstanding capital stock of AGTI. Dr. Stuart L. Schreiber, a Harvard professor who is one of our scientific founders, owns approximately 3.2% of the outstanding capital stock of AGTI. Dr. David Baltimore, the former president of the California Institute of Technology and one of our consultants and scientific founders, owns approximately 0.6% of the capital stock of AGTI. Additionally, Dr. Berger and Mr. LaMarche are the two ARIAD board members who are also the sole members of the Board of Directors of AGTI. All of the research and development activities of AGTI, including the development of deforolimus, have been conducted by us on behalf of AGTI pursuant to a research and development agreement. As a result, conflicts of interest exist in dealings between AGTI and ARIAD, including those relating to allocation of funds and resources between ARIAD and AGTI and the prioritization of research and development programs. In addition, these conflicts of interest create the risk that any transaction between ARIAD and AGTI will not provide terms as favorable to ARIAD as could be achieved in an arms-length negotiation. Moreover, even if the conflicts of interest do not influence a particular transaction between ARIAD and AGTI, because of the apparent conflicts of interest, the market may be more inclined to perceive the terms of any transaction between ARIAD and AGTI as being unfair to ARIAD. The loss of key members of our scientific and management staff could delay and may prevent the achievement of our research, development and business objectives. Our performance as a specialized scientific business is substantially dependent on our key officers and members of our scientific staff responsible for areas such as drug development, clinical trials, regulatory affairs, drug discovery, manufacturing, marketing, business development and intellectual property protection and licensing. We also are dependent upon a few of our scientific advisors to assist in formulating our research and development strategy. While we have entered into employment agreements with all of our executive officers, these officers may terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of, and failure to promptly replace, any member of our management team could significantly delay and may prevent the achievement of our research, development and business objectives. We are dependent upon the ability of our medical device partners to develop, manufacture, test and market stents or other medical devices to deliver deforolimus. We have no experience in the development of medical devices and do not intend ourselves to develop stents or other medical devices to deliver deforolimus. Instead, we have granted two licenses (to Medinol and to ICON) and, under those license agreements, we may grant one additional license, under our rights to deforolimus to a medical device company for its use in developing and commercializing such medical devices to reduce blockage of injured vessels following stent-assisted angioplasty. 23 While we expect to supply deforolimus to our medical device partners and any additional partner, we will be otherwise dependent upon them to develop and commercialize stents or other medical devices to deliver deforolimus. Such medical device partners have varying degrees of scientific, technical, medical and regulatory experience and resources to, directly or through third parties, develop, manufacture, test or market stents or other medical devices to deliver deforolimus. Their ability to conduct clinical trials and commercialize such medical devices will be dependent on both the safety profile of their medical devices and deforolimus, as well as their ability to manufacture and supply medical devices for clinical trials and marketing purposes and our ability to manufacture and supply deforolimus, either directly or through third parties, at a competitive cost and in accordance with cGMPs and other regulatory requirements. Although, under our collaboration with Merck, Merck is responsible for the formulation of deforolimus finished product for indications covered by the collaboration, we depend upon third-party manufacturers or collaborative partners for the production of deforolimus for clinical trials to be conducted by our medical device partners, and we intend to use third-party manufacturers to produce deforolimus on a commercial scale, if any partner receives regulatory approval. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers and their potential inability to meet our supply commitments to one or more of our partners could adversely impact the ability of our partners to commercialize stents or other medical devices to deliver deforolimus. We anticipate that our partners will seek to develop and commercialize stents or other medical devices to deliver deforolimus that do not infringe third-party patents. However, there can be no assurance that the devices delivering deforolimus marketed by our partners will not be subject to third-party claims. Furthermore, the patents issued to us or our partners covering deforolimus and/or medical devices, including stents, may be subject to challenge and may be subsequently narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. Either such event would adversely impact the ability of one or more of our partners to market their stents or other medical devices to deliver deforolimus. Our existing license agreements with Medinol and ICON allow either party to terminate under certain circumstances, including our partner’s reasonable business judgment that development of a medical device to deliver deforolimus is not feasible. Accordingly, Medinol or ICON may be unable to develop a medical device to deliver deforolimus and we may also not be able to enter into any additional licensing agreements with any other medical device companies to develop such devices on terms which are acceptable to us, or at all. Our inability to enter into such transactions, or the inability of one or more of our partners to develop or commercialize stents or other medical devices to deliver deforolimus for any reason, will adversely impact our ability to generate revenues from any licenses of deforolimus. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property relating to our research programs, technologies and product candidates. We and our licensors have issued patents and pending patent applications covering research methods useful in drug discovery, new chemical compounds discovered in our drug discovery programs including, among others, deforolimus, certain components, configurations and uses of our cell-signaling regulation technologies and products-in-development, methods and materials for manufacturing our products-in-development and other pharmaceutical products and methods and materials for conducting pharmaceutical research. We have a licensing program to generate revenues from the use of our ARGENT cell-signaling regulation technologies and our NF-κB intellectual property. Pending patent applications may not issue as patents and may not issue in all countries in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products or in countries where others develop, manufacture and sell products using our technologies. In addition, patents issued to us or our licensors may be challenged, as is the case with the PTO proceeding and the Lilly and Amgen litigations regarding the NF-κB ’516 Patent, and they may be subsequently narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. In that event, such patents may not afford meaningful protection for our technologies or product candidates, which would materially impact our ability to develop and market our product candidates and to generate licensing revenues from our patent portfolio. Certain technologies utilized in our research and development programs are already in the public domain. Moreover, a number of our competitors have developed technologies, filed patent applications or obtained patents on technologies, compositions and methods of use that are related to our business and may cover or conflict with our patent applications, technologies or product candidates. Such conflicts could limit the scope of the patents that we may be able to obtain or may result in the denial of our patent applications. If a third party were to obtain intellectual property protection for any of the foregoing, we may be required to challenge such protection, terminate or modify our programs impacted by such protection or obtain licenses from such third parties, which might not be available or acceptable terms or at all. Also, if a third party were to introduce a product into the market which we believe infringes our patents, we may be required to enforce our patent rights or seek to obtain an injunction or other relief, which could be time consuming or expensive. 24 We may be unable to develop or commercialize our product candidates if we are unable to obtain or maintain certain licenses on commercial terms or at all. We have entered, and will continue to enter, into agreements, either directly or through AGTI, with third parties to test compounds, blood and tissue samples, to perform gene expression analysis and to develop biological tests for use with our product candidates, which testing may yield new inventions and discoveries requiring us to obtain licenses in order to exclusively develop or market new products, alone or in combination with our product candidates, or to develop or market our product candidates for new indications. We have also entered into license agreements for some of our technologies, either directly or through AGTI. We use third parties to test blood and tissue samples and other biological materials in our clinical programs and to develop biological tests, with respect to which we may be required to obtain licenses or pay royalties or other fees in order to commercialize such tests for use with our product candidates. We also use gene sequences or proteins encoded by those sequences and other biological materials in each of our research programs which are, or may become, patented by others and to which we would be required to obtain licenses in order to develop or market our product candidates. Manufacturing and/or use of our products may also require licensing biological materials, technologies and intellectual property from third parties. Our inability to obtain any one or more of these licenses, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or to circumvent the need for any such license, could cause significant delays and cost increases and materially affect our ability to develop and commercialize or prevent us from developing and commercializing our product candidates. Obtaining licenses for these discoveries, materials and technologies may require us to make cumulative royalty payments or other payments to several third parties, potentially reducing amounts paid to us or making the cost of our products commercially prohibitive. Some of our licenses obligate us to exercise diligence in pursuing the development of product candidates, to make specified milestone payments and to pay royalties. In some instances, we are responsible for the costs of filing and prosecuting patent applications and actions to enforce our rights against infringers. These licenses generally expire upon the earlier of a fixed term of years after the date of the license or the expiration of the applicable patents, but each license is also terminable by the other party upon default by us of our obligations. Our inability or failure to meet our diligence requirements or make any payments required under these licenses would result in a reversion to the licensor of the rights granted which, with respect to the licenses pursuant to which we have obtained exclusive rights, would materially and adversely affect our ability to develop and market products based on our licensed technologies. Competing technologies may render some or all of our programs or future products noncompetitive or obsolete. Many well-known pharmaceutical, healthcare and biotechnology companies, academic and research institutions and government agencies, which have substantially greater capital, research and development capabilities and experience than us or our potential partners, are presently engaged in one or more of the following activities: 25 · developing products based on cell signaling, cancer biology, and computational chemistry; · conducting research and development programs for the treatment of the various disease indications in which we are focused; and · manufacturing, promoting, marketing and selling pharmaceutical or medical device products for treatment of diseases in all of the various disease indications in which we or our current or possible future partners are focused. Some of these entities already have competitive products on the market or product candidates in clinical trials or in more advanced preclinical studies than we do. Many of these entities also have substantially greater research, development, manufacturing and marketing resources and experience than us. In particular, we are aware that Wyeth and Novartis have mTOR inhibitors on the market and/or in development which are competitive with deforolimus, our lead product candidate. Additionally, PharmaMar has a marine derived antitumoral agent currently approved for the treatment of soft tissue sarcomas in Europe. By virtue of having or introducing competitive products on the market before us, these entities may gain a competitive advantage. Competing technologies may render some or all of our programs or future products noncompetitive or obsolete, and we may not be able to make the enhancements to our technology necessary to compete successfully with newly emerging technologies. If we are unable to successfully compete in our chosen markets, we will not become profitable. If our product candidates are not accepted by patients, physicians and insurers, we will not be successful. Our success is dependent on the acceptance of any approved products. Our product candidates may not achieve market acceptance among patients, physicians or third-party payors, even if we obtain necessary regulatory and reimbursement approvals. Physicians and health care payors may conclude that any of our product candidates are not as safe and/or effective as competing therapies or are not as attractive based on a cost/benefit analysis as alternative treatments. Failure to achieve significant market acceptance of our product candidates will harm our business. We believe that recommendations by physicians and health care payors will be essential for market acceptance of any product candidates. If we are unable to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we may be unable to successfully market and sell any products. Pursuant to our collaboration with Merck, we will distribute, sell and with Merck co-promote deforolimus for all cancer indications in the United States, and Merck will distribute, sell and promote deforolimus outside the United States. We are currently establishing a commercial oncology organization, but we have no experience in marketing or selling any products. Accordingly, we may be unable to successfully, directly or indirectly, sell deforolimus or any other product candidates that we obtain marketing approval to sell. If we are unable to effectively sell our products, our ability to generate revenues will be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to hire, in a timely manner, the qualified sales and marketing personnel we need, if at all. In addition, we may not be able to enter into any marketing or distribution agreements on acceptable terms, if at all. If we cannot establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities as we intend, either by developing our own capabilities or entering into agreements with third parties, sales of future products, if any, may be harmed. 26 If we develop a product for commercial use, a subsequent product liability-related claim or recall could have an adverse effect on our business. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products. Prior to obtaining regulatory approval to market our products, we or our partners are required to test such products in human clinical trials at health care institutions pursuant to agreements which indemnify such institutions in case of harm caused to patients by our products. We may not be able to avoid significant product liability exposure resulting from use of our products. A product liability-related claim or recall could be detrimental to our business. In addition, except for insurance covering product use in our clinical trials, we do not currently have any product liability insurance, and we may not be able to obtain or maintain such insurance on acceptable terms, or we may not be able to obtain any insurance to provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities, including liabilities arising from our clinical trials. Our inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or limit the commercialization of any products that we or our partners may develop. Significant additional losses or insufficient funding may cause us to default on certain covenants of our loan documents. At December 31, 2007, we had $3.8 million outstanding under a term loan agreement with a bank, pursuant to which we are required to maintain certain financial and non-financial covenants, including minimum cash, cash equivalents and investments of $13 million, a default of any of which would allow the bank to demand payment of its loan. We currently have sufficient liquidity to fund payment of this loan if demand for payment were made. In addition, under our equity financing facility with Azimuth Opportunity Ltd., we currently have $37.5 million available to us, which we can access, subject to certain terms and conditions. However, if we are unable to raise adequate financing to fund continuing operations or otherwise to refinance our loan, we may not be able to maintain compliance with loan covenants, may be required to pay off the loan and may be required to reduce our spending on operations. Risks Relating to Governmental Approvals We have limited experience in conducting clinical trials, which may cause delays in commencing and completing clinical trials of our product candidates. Clinical trials must meet FDA and foreign regulatory requirements. We have limited experience in designing, conducting and managing the preclinical studies and clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates in any country and no experience in conducting and managing post-approval studies of any products. We or our collaborative partners may encounter problems in clinical trials that may cause us or the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies to delay, suspend or terminate our clinical trials at any phase. These problems could include the possibility that we may not be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of cGMP materials for use in our clinical trials, conduct clinical trials at our preferred sites, enroll a sufficient number of patients for our clinical trials at one or more sites, or begin or successfully complete clinical trials in a timely fashion, if at all. Furthermore, we, our partners, the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may suspend clinical trials of our product candidates at any time if we or they believe the subjects participating in the trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks as a result of adverse events occurring in our trials or if we or they find deficiencies in the clinical trial process or conduct of the investigation. If clinical trials of any of our product candidates fail, we or our partners will not be able to market the product candidate which is the subject of the failed clinical trials. The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies could also require additional clinical trials before or after granting of marketing approval for any products, which would result in increased costs and significant delays in the development and commercialization of such products and could result in the withdrawal of such products from the market after obtaining marketing approval. Our failure, or the failure of our partners, to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a product candidate in clinical development could delay or prevent obtaining marketing approval of the product candidate and, after obtaining marketing approval, data from post-approval studies could result in the product being withdrawn from the market, either of which would likely have a material adverse effect on our business. 27 We may not be able to obtain government regulatory approval to market our product candidates. To date, neither we nor our partners have submitted a marketing application for any of our product candidates to the FDA or any foreign regulatory agency, and none of our product candidates has been approved for commercialization in any country. Prior to commercialization, each product candidate will be subject to an extensive and lengthy governmental regulatory approval process in the United States and in other countries. We or our partners may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for any product candidates, or even if approval is obtained, the labeling for such products may place restrictions on their use that could materially impact the marketability and profitability of the product subject to such restrictions. Satisfaction of these regulatory requirements, which includes satisfying the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities that the product is both safe and effective for its intended uses, typically takes several years or more depending upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Uncertainty with respect to meeting the regulatory requirements governing our product candidates may result in excessive costs or extensive delays in the regulatory approval process, adding to the already lengthy review process. If regulatory approval of a product is granted, such approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is proven safe and effective, as demonstrated by clinical trials, and may not include all of the indications necessary to successfully market the product. Even though we have obtained orphan drug designation from the FDA and EMEA for deforolimus in bone and soft-tissue sarcomas, this designation may be challenged by others or may prove to be of no practical benefit. In addition, even though we have reached agreement on a Special Protocol Assessment, or SPA, with the FDA with respect to our SUCCEED Phase 3 clinical trial of deforolimus for metastatic sarcoma, the FDA is not obligated to approve deforolimus as a result of the SPA, even if the clinical outcome of the SUCCEED trial is positive. Therefore, we cannot provide assurance that positive results in the SUCCEED trial will be sufficient for FDA approval of deforolimus. We will not be able to sell our product candidates if we, Merck or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with FDA manufacturing regulations. Under our collaboration with Merck, we are responsible for providing the active pharmaceutical ingredient used in deforolimus drug product, and Merck will be responsible for the formulation of the finished product. Under our agreements with Medinol and ICON, we are responsible for providing the deforolimus to be delivered by the stents or other medical devices being developed by Medinol and ICON. Before beginning to commercially manufacture any product candidates, we or Merck must either secure manufacturing in an FDA approved manufacturing facility or obtain regulatory approval of a manufacturing facility and processes. In addition, the manufacturing of our product candidates must comply with cGMP requirements of the FDA and similar requirements of regulatory agencies in other countries. These requirements govern, among other things, quality control and documentation procedures. We, Merck or any third-party manufacturer of product candidates, may not be able to comply with these requirements, which would prevent us from selling such products. Material changes to the manufacturing processes of products after approvals have been granted are also subject to review and approval by the FDA or other regulatory agencies. Post approval, such facilities are subject to continuing FDA and foreign regulatory inspections and failure to comply with cGMPs or similar regulations can result in regulatory action up to and including cessation of shipment of product. 28 Even if we or our partners bring products to market, we or they may be unable to effectively price the products or obtain adequate reimbursement for sales of the products, which would prevent the products from becoming profitable. If we or our partners succeed in bringing any product candidates to the market, they may not be considered cost-effective, and coverage and adequate payments may not be available or may not be sufficient to allow us to sell such products on a competitive basis. In both the United States and elsewhere, sales of medical products and treatments are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors, such as health maintenance organizations and other private insurance plans and governmental programs such as Medicare. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for pharmaceutical products and services. Our business may be affected by the efforts of government and third-party payors to contain or reduce the cost of health care through various means. In the United States, there have been and will continue to be a number of federal and state proposals to implement government controls on pricing. Similar government pricing controls exist in varying degrees in other countries. In addition, the emphasis on managed care in the United States has increased and will continue to increase the pressure on the pricing of pharmaceutical products. We cannot predict whether any legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted or the effect these proposals or managed care efforts may have on our business. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Results of our operations, general market conditions for biotechnology stocks and other factors could result in a sudden change in the value of our stock. As a biopharmaceutical company, we have experienced significant volatility in our common stock. In 2007, our stock price ranged from a high of $6.40 to a low of $3.84. Factors that can contribute to such volatility may include: announcements regarding results and timing of preclinical studies and clinical trials; announcements regarding our collaborations and partnerships; any transaction or transactions to acquire or otherwise maximize the value of technology held by AGTI; evidence of the safety or efficacy of pharmaceutical products; announcements regarding product developments or regulatory approvals obtained by companies developing competing products; decisions by regulatory agencies that impact or may impact our product candidates; the results and timing of efforts by our partner or future partners to develop stents or other medical devices to deliver deforolimus; announcements of new collaborations; announcements of new equity or debt financings or of issuances under our equity financing commitment; failure to enter into collaborations; our funding requirements; announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic products; developments relating to intellectual property rights, including licensing, litigation and governmental regulation and, in particular, our litigation with Lilly and with Amgen and reexamination proceedings in the PTO with respect to the ‘516 Patent; healthcare or cost-containment legislation; general market trends for the biotechnology industry and related high-technology industries; the impact of exchange rates for the U.S. dollar; the impact of changing interest rates and policies of the Federal Reserve; and public policy pronouncements. These and other factors could have a significant impact on the value and volatility of our common stock in future periods. Raising additional capital by issuing securities or through collaboration and licensing arrangements may cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. We may seek to raise the additional capital necessary to fund our operations through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, and collaboration and licensing arrangements, including from our equity financing facility pursuant to which we currently have $37.5 million available subject to certain terms and conditions. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders’ ownership interest will be diluted, and the terms of such securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect our stockholders’ rights. Under an existing loan agreement with a bank, we are required to maintain certain financial and non-financial covenants, including covenants limiting or restricting our ability to incur additional debt or declare dividends. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. 29 Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law, provisions in our charter and bylaws and our stockholders’ rights plan, or poison pill, could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult. Because we are a Delaware corporation, the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to stockholders. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, which prohibits us from engaging in certain business combinations, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws, each as currently in effect, also contain certain provisions that may make a third-party acquisition of us difficult, including: · a classified board of directors, with three classes of directors each serving a staggered three-year term; · the ability of the board of directors to issue preferred stock; and · the inability of our stockholders to call a special meeting. We also have implemented a stockholders’ rights plan, also called a poison pill, which could make it uneconomical for a third party to acquire our company on a hostile basis. These provisions, as well as Section 203, may discourage certain types of transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the current market price, and may limit the ability of our stockholders to approve transactions that they think may be in their best interests. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 