Item 1A. Risk Factors The risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are important factors, among others, that could cause actual results to differ from expected or historical results. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, this list should not be considered a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. (See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements.) The adverse impact of the current worldwide economic environment on the demand for cruises could adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. The demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic and business conditions. The current worldwide economic environment, including high unemployment rates, the volatility in the price of fuel and declines in the securities, real estate and other markets, has had an adverse effect on vacationers’ discretionary income and consumer confidence. This, in turn, has resulted in cruise booking slowdowns, decreased cruise prices and lower onboard revenues for us and for the others in the cruise industry. While we have recently begun to discern improvements in the current economic environment, we cannot predict the extent or strength of these improvements. If the current environment worsens, we could experience a prolonged period of booking slowdowns, depressed cruise prices and reduced onboard revenues. This could adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition including the impairment of the value of our ships, goodwill and other intangible assets. We may not be able to obtain sufficient financing or capital for our needs or may not be able to do so on terms that are acceptable or consistent with our expectations. To fund our capital expenditures and scheduled debt payments, we have historically relied on a combination of cash flows provided by operations, drawdowns under available credit facilities, the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the sale of equity or debt securities in private or public securities markets. The decrease in consumer cruise spending as a result of the current economic environment is adversely impacting our cash flows from operations. The disruption of the credit markets in 2008 and 2009 resulted in a lack of liquidity worldwide. A recurrence of these events may affect our ability to successfully raise capital or to do so on acceptable terms. These factors may prevent us from having sufficient available capital or financing to meet our needs or to do so on acceptable terms. In addition, our senior debt credit rating is currently BB- with a negative outlook by Standard and Poor’s and Ba3 with a negative outlook by Moody’s and our corporate credit rating is Ba2 with a negative outlook by Moody’s. There is no assurance that our credit ratings will not be lowered further. The lowering of our credit ratings may increase our cost of financing and can make it more difficult for us to access the financial markets. We will be required to secure Allure of the Seas if at the time we draw down on our loan to purchase the vessel our senior debt is rated below BB- by Standard & Poor’s or below Ba3 by Moody’s. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources. 21 The impact of disruptions in the global financial markets may affect the ability of our counterparties and others to perform their obligations to us. The economic events during 2008 and 2009, including failures of financial service companies and the related liquidity crisis, disrupted the capital and credit markets. A recurrence of these disruptions could cause our counterparties and others to breach their obligations to us under our contracts with them. This could include failures of banks or other financial service companies to fund required borrowings under our loan agreements or to pay us amounts that may become due under our derivative contracts for hedging of fuel prices, interest rates and foreign currencies or other agreements. If this occurs it may have a negative impact on our cash flows including our ability to meet our obligations, results of operations and financial condition. The increase in capacity resulting from delivery of newbuilds currently on order within the cruise industry could further adversely impact the demand for cruises or cruise pricing. A total of 27 new ships are on order for delivery through 2013 in the cruise industry, four of which are ours. The current worldwide economic environment has led to lower cruise prices and lower onboard purchases, all of which have adversely affected our revenues. The further growth in capacity from these new ships, without an increase in the cruise industry’s share of the vacation market, could further depress cruise prices and compound our ability to achieve yield improvement. We may lose business to competitors throughout the vacation market. We operate in the vacation market and cruising is one of many alternatives for people choosing a vacation. We therefore risk losing business not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators, which provide other leisure options including hotels, resorts and package holidays and tours. We face significant competition from other cruise lines on the basis of cruise pricing, travel agent preference and also in terms of the nature of ships and services we offer to passengers. Our principal competitors within the cruise vacation industry include Carnival Corporation & plc, which owns, among others, Aida Cruises, Carnival Cruise Lines, Costa Cruises, Cunard Line, Holland America Line, Iberocruceros, P&O Cruises and Princess Cruises; Disney Cruise Line; MSC Cruises; Norwegian Cruise Line and Oceania Cruises. In the event that we do not compete effectively with other vacation alternatives and cruise companies or our competitors offer travel agents higher commission rates and incentives in the future, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. Fears of terrorist and pirate attacks, war, and other hostilities and the spread of contagious diseases could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Events such as terrorist and pirate attacks, war, and other hostilities and the resulting political instability, travel restrictions, the spread of contagious diseases and concerns over safety, health and security aspects of traveling have had, and could have in the future, a significant adverse impact on demand and pricing in the travel and vacation industry. These events could also impact our ability to source qualified crew from throughout the world at competitive costs and, therefore, increase our shipboard employee costs. Incidents or adverse publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry or unusual weather conditions could affect our reputation and harm our future sales and results of operations. The operation of cruise ships involves the risk of accidents, illnesses and other incidents which may bring into question passenger safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction and create a perception that cruising is more dangerous than other vacation alternatives. Incidents involving cruise ships, adverse media publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry or unusual weather patterns or natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes, could impact demand and consequently have an adverse impact on our results of operations and on future industry performance. 22 Environmental, health and safety, financial responsibility and other maritime regulations could affect operations and increase operating costs. The United States and various state and foreign government or regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations or policies, such as requiring the use of low sulfur fuels, increasing fuel efficiency requirements or further restricting emissions that could increase our cost for fuel and adversely impact the cruise vacation industry. An increase in fuel prices not only impacts our fuel costs, but also some of our other expenses, such as crew travel, freight and commodity prices. In addition, initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions have been introduced or are being considered in several European countries, and numerous bills related to climate change have been introduced in the United States. Although not all are likely to become law, it is apparent that future legislation related to climate change could likely impact all businesses including the cruise industry and adversely impact our costs. Some environmental groups have also lobbied for more stringent regulation of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise vacation industry and its environmental impact. In addition, we are subject to various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties that govern, among other things, safety standards applicable to our ships, health and sanitary standards applicable to our passengers, security standards on board our ships and at the ship/port interface areas, and financial responsibilities to our passengers. These issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. This could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that would subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. Conducting business internationally may result in increased costs and other risks. We operate our business internationally and plan to continue to develop our international presence. Operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks. Examples include unstable local political or economic conditions and risk of increases in duties and taxes as well as changes in laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses, or governing the operations of foreign-based companies. Additional risks include currency fluctuations, interest rate movements, imposition of trade barriers and restrictions on repatriation of earnings. If we are unable to address these risks adequately, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have ship construction contracts which are denominated in euros. While we have entered into euro-denominated forward contracts to manage a portion of the currency risk associated with these ship construction contracts, we are exposed to fluctuations in the euro exchange rate for the portion of the ship construction contracts that has not been hedged. If the shipyard is unable to perform under the related ship construction contract, any foreign currency hedges that were entered into to manage the currency risk would need to be terminated. Termination of these contracts could result in a significant loss. Our attempts to expand our business into new markets may not be successful. Historically our focus has been to serve the North American cruise market, which continues to be our primary source of cruise passengers. We have expanded our focus to increase our international passenger sourcing, most recently, in the Brazilian, Asian and Australian markets. Expansion into new markets requires significant levels of investment. There can be no assurance that these markets will develop as anticipated or that we will have success in these markets, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Ship construction delays or mechanical faults may result in cancellation of cruises or unscheduled drydocks and repairs and thus adversely affect our results of operations. We depend on shipyards to construct and deliver our cruise ships on a timely basis and in good working order. The sophisticated nature of building a ship involves risks. Delays or mechanical faults in ship construction have in the past and may in the future result in delays or cancellation of cruises or necessitate unscheduled drydocks and repairs of ships. We have, for example, experienced mechanical problems with the pod propulsion units on certain ships and there can be no assurance that we will not experience such problems in the future. These events and any related adverse publicity could result in lost revenue, increased operating expenses, or both, and thus adversely affect our results of operations. 23 The current worldwide economic environment is resulting in financial difficulties for shipyards and their subcontractors. This may cause or result in delivery delays, ship cancellations or increases in shipbuilding costs that could adversely affect our results of operations. The current worldwide economic environment is causing a loss of business for shipyards and their subcontractors which could result in financial difficulties, liquidations or closures. These events could adversely affect the timely delivery or costs of new ships or the ability of shipyards to repair and refurbish our existing fleet in accordance with our needs or expectations. Delivery delays and cancelled deliveries can adversely affect our results of operations, as can any constraints on our ability to repair and maintain our ships on a timely basis. Our operating costs and taxes could increase due to market forces and economic or geo- political factors beyond our control. Our operating costs, including fuel, food, payroll, airfare for our shipboard personnel, insurance and security costs are subject to increases due to market forces and economic or political instability or other factors beyond our control. Increases in these operating costs could adversely affect our profitability. In addition, the recent volatility in the price of fuel is making our ability to predict fuel prices extremely difficult. United States, state and local authorities as well as foreign authorities periodically consider increases in taxes. Any such tax increases could also cause an increase in our costs. Unavailability of ports of call may adversely affect our results of operations. We believe that port destinations are a major reason why passengers choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. The availability of ports is affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, existing capacity constraints, security concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our competitors, local governmental regulations and local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists. Any limitations on the availability of our ports of call or on the availability of shore excursion and other service providers at such ports could adversely affect our results of operations. Price increases for commercial airline service for our passengers or major changes or reduction in commercial airline service could adversely impact the demand for cruises and undermine our ability to provide reasonably priced vacation packages to our passengers. Many of our passengers depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to or from the ports where our cruises embark or disembark. Increases in the price of airfare would increase the overall price of the cruise vacation to our passengers which may adversely impact demand for our cruises. In addition, changes in the availability of commercial airline services could adversely affect our passenger’s ability to obtain airfare as well as our ability to fly our passengers to or from our cruise ships which could adversely affect our results of operations. Changes or disruptions to the travel agency industry could adversely affect our results of operations. We rely on travel agencies to generate the majority of bookings for our ships. If the current economic environment continues for an extended period of time or worsens, these agencies could be adversely impacted and significant disruptions or contractions could occur to these businesses. This could reduce the number of travel agencies available for us to market and sell our cruises. If these events were to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. A disruption in our shoreside business may adversely affect our results of operations. Our principal executive office and shoreside operations are located at the Port of Miami, Florida and we have large call centers for reservations in Springfield, Oregon, Wichita, Kansas and Addlestone, England. Although we have developed disaster recovery and similar contingency plans, actual or threatened natural disasters (i.e. hurricanes, earthquakes, tornados, fires, floods), information systems failure or similar events in these locations may have a material impact to our business continuity and results of operations. Further, we do not carry business interruption insurance for the majority of our shoreside operations. As such, any losses or damages incurred by us could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. 24 Failure to develop the value of our brands and differentiate our products could adversely affect our results of operations. Our success depends on the strength and continued development of our cruise brands and on the effectiveness of our brand strategies. Our brands have the ability to expand and target the markets in which they operate which is critical to increasing our customer base. Failure to protect and differentiate our brands from competitors throughout the vacation market could adversely affect our results of operations. The loss of key personnel, our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel or disruptions among our shipboard personnel due to strained collective bargaining relationships could adversely affect our results of operations. Our success depends, in large part, on the skills and contributions of key executives and other employees, and on our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees. We must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees sufficient to maintain our current business and support our projected growth. Furthermore, as of December 31, 2009, 80% of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. A dispute under our collective bargaining agreements could result in a work stoppage of those employees covered by the agreements. A loss of key employees or disruptions among our shipboard personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. A change in our tax status under the United States Internal Revenue Code, or other jurisdictions, may have adverse effects on our income. We and a number of our subsidiaries are foreign corporations that derive income from a United States trade or business and/or from sources within the United States. Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP, our United States tax counsel, has delivered to us an opinion, based on certain representations and assumptions set forth in it, to the effect that this income, to the extent derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, is exempt from United States federal income tax pursuant to Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code. We believe that most of our income (including that of our subsidiaries) is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships. It should also be noted that the provisions of Section 883 are subject to change at any time by legislation. Moreover, changes could occur in the future with respect to the identity, residence or holdings of our direct or indirect shareholders, or relevant foreign tax laws, that could affect our eligibility for the Section 883 exemption. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be exempt from United States income tax on United States source shipping income in the future. If we were not entitled to the benefit of Section 883, we and our subsidiaries would be subject to United States taxation on a portion of the income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships, which would reduce our net income. See Taxation of the Company above for a discussion of such taxation in the absence of an exemption under Section 883. Finally, changes in the income tax laws affecting our operations in Malta, Spain, the United Kingdom or elsewhere could result in higher income taxes being charged against our operations, resulting in lower net income. We are controlled by principal shareholders that have the power to determine our policies, management and actions requiring shareholder approval. As of February 12, 2010, A. Wilhelmsen AS., a Norwegian corporation indirectly owned by members of the Wilhelmsen family of Norway, owned approximately 20.1% of our common stock and Cruise Associates, a Bahamian general partnership indirectly owned by various trusts primarily for the benefit of certain members of the Pritzker family and a trust primarily for the benefit of certain members of the Ofer family, owned approximately 15.5% of our common stock. A sale of shares by A. Wilhelmsen AS. or Cruise Associates could cause a drop in our share prices. A. Wilhelmsen AS. and Cruise Associates are parties to a shareholders’ agreement which provides that they will each vote their shares for the election of four nominees of A. Wilhelmsen AS., four nominees of Cruise Associates and our Chief Executive Officer. Our Articles of Incorporation require that during the term of the shareholders agreement the approval of at least one director nominated by A. Wilhelmsen AS. and one director nominated by Cruise Associates is required for certain corporate actions. As such, A. Wilhelmsen AS and Cruise Associates have the power to determine, among other things our policies, the persons who will be our officers, and actions requiring shareholder approval. 25 A. Wilhelmsen AS. and Cruise Associates are not prohibited from engaging in a business that may compete with our business, subject to certain exceptions. If any person other than A. Wilhelmsen AS. and Cruise Associates acquires ownership of more than 30% of our common stock and our two principal shareholders, in the aggregate, own less of our common stock than such person and do not collectively have the right to elect, or to designate for election, at least a majority of the board of directors, we may be obligated to prepay indebtedness outstanding under the majority of our credit facilities, which we may be unable to replace on similar terms. If this were to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our liquidity and operations. We are not a United States corporation and our shareholders may be subject to the uncertainties of a foreign legal system in protecting their interests. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Restated Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws and by the Business Corporation Act of Liberia. The provisions of the Business Corporation Act of Liberia resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, while most states have a fairly well developed body of case law interpreting their respective corporate statutes, there are very few judicial cases in Liberia interpreting the Business Corporation Act of Liberia. As such, the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under Liberian law are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain United States jurisdictions. For example, the right of shareholders to bring a derivative action in Liberian courts may be more limited than in United States jurisdictions. There may also be practical difficulties for shareholders attempting to bring suit in Liberia and Liberian courts may or may not recognize and enforce foreign judgments. Thus, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests with respect to actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. Litigation, enforcement actions, fines or penalties could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations and/or damage our reputation. Our business is subject to various United States and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. In addition, improper conduct by our employees or agents could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. In certain circumstances it may not be economical to defend against such matters and/or a legal strategy may not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter. Such events could lead to an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 