Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Proposed Plan of Dissolution If our expectations regarding operating and liquidation expenses are inaccurate, the amount we distribute to our shareholders may be reduced or eliminated. The amount of cash ultimately distributed to shareholders pursuant to the plan of dissolution depends on the amount of our liabilities, obligations and expenses and claims against us, and contingency reserves that we establish during the liquidation process. We have attempted to estimate the amount of and reasonable reserves for such liabilities, obligations, expenses and claims against us. However, those estimates may be inaccurate. Factors that could impact our estimates include the following: • If currently unknown or unanticipated claims are asserted against us, we will have to defend, resolve or reserve for such claims before making distributions to shareholders, which will reduce amounts otherwise available for distribution. • We have made estimates regarding the expense of personnel required and other operating expenses (including legal, accounting and other professional fees) necessary to wind up our business and affairs. Our actual expenses could vary significantly. If the time it takes to wind up of our business takes longer than anticipated, we may incur additional expenses above our current estimates, which could substantially reduce or eliminate funds available for distribution to our shareholders. Distributions to our shareholders could be delayed, diminished or eliminated. Any future distributions could be delayed, reduced or eliminated depending on many factors, including without limitation: • If a creditor or other third party seeks an injunction against the making of distributions to our shareholders on the ground that the amounts to be distributed are needed to provide for the satisfaction of our liabilities or other obligations. • If we become a party to lawsuits or other claims asserted by or against us, including any claims or litigation arising in connection with our decision effect the Transaction or to liquidate and dissolve. 4 Table of Contents • If we are unable to resolve claims with creditors or other third parties, or if such resolutions take longer than expected. • If it takes longer to collect or sell our tax receivable than expected. Any of the foregoing could delay or substantially diminish or eliminate the amount available for distribution to our shareholders. We may delay the distribution of some or all of the estimated amounts that we expect to distribute to shareholders to satisfy claims against and obligations of the Company that may arise during the five-year period following the effective date of dissolution. Under the IBCA unbarred claims and demands may be asserted against us at any time during the five years following the effective date of dissolution, which was October 28, 2010. Accordingly, the board of directors may obtain and maintain insurance coverage or establish and set aside a reasonable amount of cash or other assets as a contingency reserve to satisfy claims against and obligations of the Company that may arise during the five-year period following the effective date. As a result of these factors, we may retain for distribution at a later date some or all of the estimated amounts that we expect to distribute to shareholders. If we fail to retain sufficient funds to pay our creditors, our shareholders could be held responsible for these liabilities up to the amount of any liquidating distributions they have received. If we fail to obtain insurance or to retain or reserve sufficient funds to pay our creditors or claimants, including for contingent claims or claims that are not known to us by the time we make final liquidating distribution to shareholders, our shareholders could be held responsible for these liabilities up to the amount distributed to them as liquidating distributions under the plan of dissolution. The potential for shareholder liability continues for unbarred claims made within five years after our articles of dissolution were filed, which was on October 28, 2010. In this event, a shareholder could be required to return all amounts received as liquidating distributions and ultimately could receive nothing under the plan of dissolution. Furthermore, an aggrieved claimant could seek to enjoin any proposed liquidating distributions to preserve assets pending resolution of the claimant's claim. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, payments made by a shareholder in satisfaction of our liabilities not covered by our cash or reserves or otherwise satisfied through insurance or other reasonable means generally would produce a capital loss for such shareholder in the year the liabilities are paid. The deductibility of any such capital loss generally would be subject to limitations under the Internal Revenue Code. Shareholders may not be able to recognize a loss for United States federal income tax purposes until they receive a final distribution from us. As a result of our dissolution and liquidation, for United States federal income tax purposes, our shareholders generally will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between (1) the sum of the amount of cash and the fair market value (at the time of distribution) of property, if any, distributed to them, and (2) their tax basis for their common shares of the Company. Liquidating distributions pursuant to the plan of dissolution may occur at various times and in more than one tax year. Any loss generally will be recognized by a shareholder only when the shareholder receives our final liquidating distribution to shareholders, and then only if the aggregate value of all liquidating distributions with respect to a share is less than the shareholder's tax basis for that share. Shareholders are urged to consult their own tax advisors as to the specific tax consequences to them of our dissolution and liquidation pursuant to the plan of dissolution. We expect to close our transfer books, which may prevent our shareholders from liquidating their holdings in our shares. The plan of distribution provides that we may close our share transfer books at any time after we file our articles of dissolution. Upon the closing of our transfer books, share certificates evidencing our common stock will not be assignable or transferable on our books except by will, intestate succession or operation of law, and we will not issue any new stock certificates, other than replacement certificates. Accordingly, shareholders may not be able to liquidate their investment in the Company or otherwise receive value for their shares of our common stock other than through receipt of liquidating distributions pursuant to the plan of dissolution. No assurance can be given that our shareholders will receive notice of the date our transfer books closed in sufficient time, if at all, to effect a sale of their shares of our common stock. If we fail to retain the services of certain key personnel, the plan of dissolution may not succeed. The success of the plan of dissolution depends in large part upon our ability to retain the services of Bernay Box, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Murrey Wanstrath, our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer. We expect them to continue to remain to assist in our liquidation. Failure to retain these personnel could harm the implementation of the plan of dissolution. If we fail to retain the services of these personnel, we will need to hire others to oversee our liquidation and dissolution, which could involve additional compensation expenses, if such other personnel are available at all. 5 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Common Stock The ability to buy and sell shares of our common stock may be materially impaired; termination of SEC reporting obligations limits information available to shareholders. On January 21, 2011, we filed a Form 15 with the SEC to voluntarily deregister the Company's common stock and suspend our 2011 obligations to file periodic reports on a going-forward basis under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Our shareholders, therefore, will have limited public information available to them about the Company. We expect the deregistration to become effective within 90 days after filing with the SEC. As a result of this filing, the Company's common stock ceased to be eligible for trading on the OTC Bulletin Board. Although our common stock is currently quoted in the Pink Sheets, we intend to take no action to encourage or support continued trading in our shares. Shares listed on our former registration statement on Form SB-2 (File no. 333-136194) were sold during a period utilizing the registration statement on Form SB-2 when it was not effective. Any purchaser of these shares may have rescission rights that could require us to repurchase their shares. Our registration statement on Form SB-2 (File no. 333-136194) was declared effective by the SEC on February 13, 2007 but was not longer effective as of November 13, 2007 because the registration statement was not properly updated with our current audited financial information. It was then properly updated and a Post-Effective Amendment No.2 to the registration statement was declared effective on February 10, 2010. Any shares offered and sold utilizing that registration statement and the related prospectus after November 13, 2007, but before the Post-Effective Amendment No. 2 was declared effective on February 10, 2010, would not comply with Section 10(a)(3) and Sections 5(b)(1) and 5(b)(2) of the Act and may be subject to rescission. We believe that 9,200 of our shares were sold pursuant to the registration statement on Form SB-2 after November 13, 2007 and before February 10, 2010 and it is possible that there were an additional 32,872 of our shares that could have also been sold during that period. In order to address this issue, if the identity of any purchasers of such shares is ascertained, we will make a rescission offer to the purchasers of these shares. If any such rescission offer is accepted we could be required to make a payment(s) to the purchaser(s) of these shares at the price of the shares on the date of the transaction plus any applicable statutory interest. Federal securities laws do not provide that a rescission offer will terminate a purchaser's right to rescind a sale of stock that was not registered as required or was not otherwise exempt from such registration requirements. If any or all of the potential offerees reject the rescission offer we may continue to be liable under federal and state securities laws for such sales of shares pursuant to the registration statement on Form SB-2 since November 13, 2007 plus any statutory interest we may be required to pay. In addition, regulators could impose monetary fines or other sanctions as provided under federal or state securities laws. We filed a Post-Effective Amendment No. 4 with respect to this registration statement to terminate the effectiveness of this registration statement, which Post-Effective Amendment became effective December 14, 2010. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. As we are no longer an operating company, the only value underlying the trading price of our common shares is the right to receive further distributions, if any, as part of the liquidation process. Because of the difficulty in estimating the amount and timing of the liquidating distributions and due to the other risk factors discussed, our common shares are likely to continue to be subject to significant volatility and may trade above or below the amount of any future liquidating distribution that may be made. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 