Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If that happens the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our results of operations and financial condition. The risk factors below contain forward-looking statements regarding the Company. Actual results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Risks Related to our Business We face substantial competition and rapid change from other industry participants and competitors, including other securities and financial services firms, which could harm our financial performance if we fail to compete. We encounter aggressive competition from numerous competitors in most areas of our business. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater resources than we do and offer a wider range of brokerage and brokerage related products and services. Many also have greater name recognition, greater market acceptance and lager customer bases. These competitors may conduct extensive promotional activities and offer better terms, lower prices and/or different products and services than we do. In addition, new competitors may emerge at any time. The competitiveness of our operations may be threatened by new technologies or market trends which could lead to reduced financial results. In addition, the market for securities and financial services and the related infrastructure products and services is rapidly evolving and highly competitive. Competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies and client requirements and may be able to implement significant technology enhancements or offerings, undertake more extensive promotional activities, offer more attractive terms to clients and adopt more aggressive pricing policies than ours, based on our limited resources. If we fail to compete effectively our revenue could decrease and our operating results could be materially harmed. Our procedures may not be sufficient to properly monitor our correspondents or clearing partners or protect us from liability for their acts under current laws and regulations. Any intentional failure, negligence or unintentional errors in properly performing our clearing functions or any mishandling of funds and securities held by us on behalf of our correspondents and their clients could lead to censures, fines or other sanctions by applicable authorities, cease and desist orders or suspension or disqualification of employees or officers as well as actions in tort brought by parties who are financially harmed by those failures or mishandlings. The growth of our business and expansion of our client base may place a significant strain on our management and operations. While many of our systems and processes are designed to accommodate additional growth without redesign or replacement, we may nevertheless need to make significant investments in additional hardware and software to accommodate growth or such enhancement, change or addition may not be timely enough. If we fail to implement or adapt proper procedures we may be subject to liability or loss of revenues that could result in substantial costs to us and distract our management from our business. 8 Table of Contents We operate in a highly regulated industry and compliance failures could adversely affect our business. We operate under extensive regulation which increases our cost of doing business and is a limiting factor on the operations and development of our business. Our business and operations are subject to regulation by the SEC, FINRA, the CFTC, the NFA and other SROs, and state securities commissions. We also may be subject to regulation by securities regulatory authorities in other foreign countries where our customers are located. The securities industry in the United States covers all aspects of the securities business, including: • sales and marketing methods, • use and safekeeping of customers' funds and securities, • trade practices, • capital structure, • record-keeping, • financing of customers' purchases, and • conduct of directors, officers and employees. Failure to comply with any of the laws, rules or regulations applicable to us, even inadvertently, could lead to adverse consequences including investigation, censure, fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, other penalties from regulatory agencies, criminal penalties, civil lawsuits, or the suspension or disqualification of Terra Nova, or the suspension or disqualification of our directors, officers or employees. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our business. Downturns or disruptions in the securities markets could reduce trade volumes and margin borrowing and increase our dependence on our more active customers. Like other financial services firms we are affected directly by national and global economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in business and finance, distributions to the securities markets and changes in volume and price levels of securities and futures transactions. Historically, securities trading volume in the United States has fluctuated considerably. We expect our revenues to be adversely affected by periods of low trading volume. Decreases in trade volume may be more significant for us with respect to our less active customers, increasing our dependence on our more active trading customers. Decreases in volumes, as well as securities prices, are also typically associated with a decrease in margin borrowing. Because we generate revenue from interest charged on margin borrowing by our customers such decreases result in a reduction of revenue. When transaction volume is low our operating results may suffer in part because some of our overhead costs may remain relatively fixed. Market conditions and short-term interest rates remaining low would negatively impact our revenues and profitability. The profitability of our margin lending activities depends to a great extent on the difference between interest income earned on margin loans and investments of client cash and the interest expense paid on client cash balances and borrowings. If short-term interest rates remain low we generally expect to receive less interest income on client cash deposits held in reserve and on margin debit balances and potentially a smaller gross interest spread causing our net interest income to decline. Short-term interest rates are highly sensitive to factors that are beyond our control including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Our level of business activity depends upon a healthy and active market for the purchase and sale of securities. Bear markets, flat market trends, or market interruptions generally decrease the overall market, trading volumes and investor activity. We find that during these times both gross commissions, total trades, and overall volume can increase or decrease substantially. We have off-balance sheet risk associated with our broker-dealers and our margin lending business which subjects us to credit risks. 9 Table of Contents We provide margin loans to investors, therefore, we are subject to risks inherent in extending credit. Our credit risks include the risk that margin requirements may be inadequate and the value of the collateral we hold could fall below the amount of an investor's indebtedness especially when the market is rapidly declining. During periods of fast market movement, as the securities markets have recently experienced, and in cases where leverage or collateral is concentrated and market movements occur, the risks associated with margin credit and leverage increase. During such times, customers who utilize margin credit or leverage and who have collateralized their obligations with securities may find that securities have a rapidly depreciating value and may not be sufficient to cover their obligations in the event of liquidation. Agreements with margin account investors permit us to liquidate their securities with or without prior notice in the event that the amount of margin collateral becomes insufficient or might be considered questionable. Despite those agreements we may be unable to liquidate the clients' securities. In connection with securities activities, we also execute client transactions involving the sale of securities not yet purchased, known as "short sales," all of which are transacted on a margin basis subject to federal, self-regulatory organization and individual exchange regulations and its clearing broker's internal policies. In all cases, such transactions may expose us to significant off-balance sheet credit risk in the event client collateral is not sufficient to fully cover losses that clients may incur. We provide guarantees to clearing organization and exchanges under standard membership agreements, which require members to guarantee the performance of other members. Under the agreements, if another member becomes unable to satisfy its obligations to the clearing organization and exchanges other members would be required to meet shortfalls. Our liability under these arrangements is not quantifiable and may exceed the cash and securities we have posted as collateral. We have exposure to liquidity risk. We fund customer margin loans with customer credit balances. A reduction of funds available from client credit balances may require us to seek other potentially more expensive forms of financing such as borrowings on lines of credit. Economic conditions and other securities industry risks could adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our revenues are derived from our securities brokerage business. Like other securities brokerage businesses we are directly affected by economic and political conditions, broad trends in business and finance and changes in volume and price levels of securities transactions. Events in global financial markets over the past year, including failures and government bailouts of large financial services companies resulted in substantial market volatility. Any sustained downturn in general economic conditions or U.S. equity markets could result in reduced client trading volume and net revenues. Severe market fluctuations or weak economic conditions could reduce our trading volume and net revenues and have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Changes in legislation or rules or regulations could negatively impact our business and financial results. The regulatory environment in which we operate may change. These changes may affect our ability to conduct our business or reduce our profitability. Our activities may be affected not only by legislation or regulations of general applicability, but also by industry-specific legislation or regulations. Our brokerage customers may also be affected by changes in rules and regulations that could negatively impact us. The SEC, other U.S. governmental authorities, FINRA, the NFA or other SROs may adopt new or revised regulations which affect our business. Changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by those entities may also affect our business. Recently, firms in the financial services industry have been operating in a difficult regulatory environment. Legislators and regulators have proposed an unprecedented amount of new legislation, rule changes or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing federal, state and self-regulatory organization rules and regulations impacting our industry. Recent market disruptions have led to numerous proposals for changes in the regulation of the financial services industry, including significant additional regulation. The adoption of any such new legislation, rule changes or enforcement standards could directly affect or change both our operation and financial condition. Our financial condition could also be affected by rules and regulations that impact the business and financial communities generally, including changes to the laws governing fiduciary duties, conflicts of interest, taxation, electronic commerce, client privacy and security of client data. In addition, we use the Internet as the distribution channel to provide services to our customers. We must comply with a variety of federal and state laws affecting the content of materials distributed over the Internet, as well as regulations and other laws restricting the collection, use and disclosure of personal information that we may obtain in the course of providing our online services. Any new law or regulation pertaining to the Internet, or the application or interpretation of existing laws, could increase our cost of doing business, decrease the demand for our products and services, or otherwise harm our business. A number of regulatory agencies have recently adopted regulations regarding customer privacy and the use of customer information by service providers. Additional laws and regulations relating to the Internet may be adopted in the future, including regulations regarding the pricing, privacy, taxation, content and quality of products and services delivered over the Internet. Compliance with future laws and regulations, or existing laws as they may be interpreted in the future, could be expensive, time consuming, impractical or impossible. 10 Table of Contents We are subject to litigation and regulatory investigations and proceedings and may not always be successful in defending against such claims and proceedings. The financial services industry faces substantial litigation and regulatory risks. We are subject to arbitration claims and lawsuits in the ordinary course of our business. We also are the subject of inquiries, investigations and proceedings by regulatory and other governmental agencies. Actions brought against us may result in settlements, awards, injunctions, fines, penalties and other results adverse to us. Predicting the outcome of such matters is inherently difficult, particularly when claimants seek substantial or unspecified damages or when investigations or legal proceedings are at an early stage. A substantial judgment, settlement, fine or penalty could be material to our operating results or cash flows for a particular period, depending on our results for that period, or could cause us significant reputational harm, which could harm our business prospects. In market downturns, the volume of legal claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial services companies have historically increased. The volume of claims and amount of damages claimed in litigation and the volume of regulatory matters have been increasing and remain high. If we lose the services of any of our key personnel our business may be unable to attract qualified replacements. Our success is heavily dependent on the performance of our executive officers and managers. Our growth and future success will depend, in large part, on the continued contributions of these key individuals as well as our ability to motivate and retain our personnel. Loss of any of our key personnel could result in severe hardship in our ability to execute our business plan. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to recruit and retain highly skilled management, sales and marketing, and technical personnel. Competition in recruiting personnel in the industry is intense. Operational changes may disrupt our operations. We continually evaluate our products, services and corporate strategy. We have in the past undertaken, and will in the future undertake, operational changes and/or product, technology and marketing strategy modifications. These operational changes increase the risk that objectives will not be met due to the allocation of valuable limited resources to implement changes. Further, due to the uncertain nature of any of these undertakings, these efforts may not be successful and we may not realize any benefit from these efforts. Legal and regulatory compliance continues to become more complex and costly. We are subject to a high degree of legal and regulatory requirements. The cost and complexity of meeting these requirements continues to increase. We have implemented and continue to implement formal compliance procedures to respond to regulatory requirements and changes. Our future operating results will depend on our ability: • to improve our systems for operations, financial controls, communication and information management; and • to refine our compliance procedures and enhance our compliance oversight, and to recruit, train, manage and retain our employees. Increases in costs associated with these efforts would cause our operating margins to decline from current levels. We rely on intellectual property and proprietary rights to protect the products that we have developed as well as those of third-party vendors. The success of our business depends, in part, on obtaining intellectual property protection for our products, defending our intellectual property once obtained, preserving our trade secrets and the protection of our third party vendors. To protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of trademark laws, copyright laws, patent laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our affiliates, clients, strategic investors and third-party vendors. The protective steps we have taken may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. Even if we are able to defend our intellectual property, there may be little recognition of our brand and trademark in the marketplace. We may also be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Failure to protect our intellectual property adequately could harm our brand and affect our ability to compete effectively. Further, defending our intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 11 Table of Contents Also, protection may not be available for our intellectual property. We currently do not own any patents and we cannot verify with certainty the intellectual property owned by our third-party vendors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure significant protection for any or our intellectual property. In addition, we cannot assure you that we are or will be aware of all patents containing claims that may pose risk of infringement by our products and services. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management resources and attention. Successful challenges against us could require us to modify or change or discontinue use of the portions of our products or services that are found to be infringing or violating the rights of others or to obtain licenses from third parties. Such claims could result in awards of substantial damages which could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to: • cease licensing, incorporating or using any of our products or those of our third-party vendors that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, which would adversely affect our financial operating results; • obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right which may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; • or redesign our products, which would be costly and time-consuming, and divert the attention of limited technical and management resources. Our risk management policies and procedures may not be effective and may leave us exposed to unidentified or unexpected risks. Our policies, procedures and practices used to identify, monitor and control a variety of risks may fail to be effective. As a result, we face the risk of losses, including losses resulting from firm errors, customer defaults, market movements, fraud and money-laundering. Our risk management methods rely on a combination of technical and human controls and supervision that are subject to error and failure. Some of our methods of managing risk are based on internally developed controls and observed historical market behavior, and also involve reliance on industry standard practices. These methods may not adequately prevent future losses, particularly as they relate to extreme market movements, which may be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. These methods also may not adequately prevent losses due to technical errors if our testing and quality control practices are not effective in preventing technical software or hardware failures. The loss of or change in our third-party vendors may adversely affect our business. We rely on a number of third parties for various services. These include the services of market makers and exchanges to execute customer orders and other third parties for back-office services and other information necessary to run our business, including transaction summaries, data feeds for compliance and risk management, execution reports and trade confirmations. Third-party content providers provide us with all of the financial information, market news, charts, option and stock quotes, research reports and other fundamental data that we offer to customers. Furthermore, we have offsite third-party data center operations that are critical to our business. We cannot assure you that any of these providers will be able to continue to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner or that they will be able to adequately expand their services to meet our needs. An interruption in or the cessation of service by any third-party service provider as a result of systems failures, capacity constraints, unanticipated trading market closures or for any other reason, and our inability to make alternative arrangements in a smooth and timely manner, if at all, may impact our ability to process trades and have other material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Introduction of new operating systems or the inability to retain third-party technologies may disrupt our operations and cause significant fluctuations in our financial results. Our financial technology products are designed to run on Microsoft operating systems and integrate with security products from other industry leading vendors. Although we believe that the target operating systems and products are and will be widely offered and utilized by businesses in the corporate market, no assurances can be given that this will continue and in the future we might be forced to migrate to other computing technologies that we do not currently support. Moreover, if our products and technology are not compatible with new developments from these companies, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected as a result of the expenses we incur to make our products compatible. We may be unsuccessful in utilizing new marketing and/or new distribution channels which may decrease our ability to implement our business plan. We have pursued, and may continue to invest in both new and proven marketing channels that historically have been cost effective for advertising and marketing which include strategic alliances with complementary businesses and internet marketing. In an effort to diversify our sources of revenue and expand our client bases new or existing marketing channels may increase costs and delay or divert management's attention. In addition, we rely upon the internet for marketing and the distribution of our products and services. This form of marketing may not be successful in the future. 12 Table of Contents The length of the product development and sales cycles are difficult to predict, and our offering may not reach the market at opportune times. The implementation of financial services and software products are inherently difficult to plan for when interfacing with many vendors for input and output of data. Therefore, we may incur delays in the introduction of new products or features. Also, any new feature that users do not favorably receive could damage our reputation and brand name. We cannot be certain that we will get enough revenue from any expanded products or services to offset related costs. The length of our product development and sales cycles has generally been greater than we originally expected. These delays could have a material adverse effect on the amount and timing of future revenues. Systems failures and delays could harm our business. We receive and process trade orders through a variety of electronic channels. Our online trading services and our products are heavily dependent on the integrity of the systems supporting them. Our systems and operations, including our web servers and those of our third party service providers, are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, sabotage, encryption failures, break-ins, intentional acts of vandalism, earthquakes, terrorist attacks, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks or other attempts to harm our systems and operations, and similar events. Our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all potential eventualities. In addition, extraordinary trading volumes could cause our computer systems to operate at an unacceptably low speed or even fail. While we have invested significant amounts to upgrade the reliability and scalability of our systems there can be no assurance that our systems will be sufficient to handle such extraordinary trading volumes. Systems failures or delays may occur in the future and could cause, among other things, unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients, slower system response time resulting in transactions not being processed as quickly as our clients desire, decreased levels of customer service and customer satisfaction and harm to our reputation. If any of these events were to occur, we could suffer: • a loss of clients; • increased operating expenses; • financial losses; and • litigation or other customer claims and regulatory sanctions or additional regulatory burdens. Our business also depends on the continued reliability of the internet infrastructure. This includes maintenance of a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity and security for providing reliable internet services. Internet infrastructure may be unable to support the demands placed on it if the number of internet users continues to increase or if existing or future internet users access the internet more often or increase their bandwidth requirements. In addition, viruses, worms and similar programs may harm the performance of the internet. We have in the past experienced outages and other delays as a result of internet failure. Additional cash resources may be needed in the future but may not be available. While we have limited but adequate cash resources now we may have additional cash and liquidity needs in the future that are difficult to meet. Additional financing sources may include debt and/or equity financing though there is no guarantee that adequate amounts of debt or equity financing will be available if needed on acceptable terms. Any future issuance of stock may have a negative impact on the stock price. Failure to comply with net capital requirements could adversely affect our business. The SEC, FINRA, CFTC, NFA and other SRO's have stringent rules with respect to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital by securities broker-dealers. Our operating broker-dealer subsidiary, Terra Nova, is required to comply with these net capital requirements. If we fail to maintain the required net capital, the SEC or CFTC could fine us or even suspend or revoke our registration, or the applicable SRO could sanction us, including by limiting our growth or expelling us from membership. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our business. If such net capital rules are changed or expanded, or if there is an unusually large charge against net capital, trading operations that require the use of capital could be restricted. A large operating loss or charge against net capital could adversely affect our ability to expand or even maintain our then present levels of business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and projections. As a holding company we access the earnings of our broker-dealer subsidiary through receipt of capital. Net capital requirements may limit our ability to access those earnings. 13 Table of Contents Certain of our directors and largest stockholders may have a significant influence on matters submitted to stockholders for approval. We have a few large shareholders who each hold more than 5% of our outstanding shares. Together our directors and holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock beneficially own greater than 70% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, may have significant influence over the election of our directors, the appointment of new management and the potential outcome of all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including entering into mergers, the sale of substantially all of our assets and other extraordinary items. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders. Procedures and requirements of the Patriot Act may expose us to significant costs or penalties. As participants in the financial services industry our subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations, including the U.S. Patriot Act of 2001, that require that they know their clients and monitor transactions for suspicious financial activities. The cost of complying with the Patriot Act and related laws and regulations is significant. We face the risk that our policies, procedures, technology and personnel directed toward complying with the U.S. Patriot Act are insufficient and that we could be subject to significant criminal and civil penalties due to noncompliance. Such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. As an online broker with clients worldwide we may face particular difficulties in identifying our clients and monitoring their activities. Our controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, believes that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must consider the benefits of controls relative to their costs. Inherent limitations within a control system include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by an unauthorized override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in a cost effective control system misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be prevented or detected. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting may have an adverse effect on our stock price. We have in the past, and may in the future, discover areas of our internal control over financial reporting which may require improvement. For example, in March 2008 we identified an error in the way we recorded non-cash stock compensation expense for certain warrant grants in 2006 which resulted in a restatement of our 2006 consolidated financial statements. Management determined that the error went undetected due to inadequate processes for assuring that the documentation of the awards properly reflected the non-economic terms of the grants and properly recording the awards as documented. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Our self-clearing operations for securities expose us to liability for errors in clearing functions. Clearing and execution services include the confirmation, receipt, settlement and delivery functions involved in securities transactions. Clearing brokers also assume direct responsibility for the possession and control of client securities and other assets and the clearance of client securities transactions. However, clearing brokers also must rely on third-party clearing organizations such as DTCC and OCC in settling client securities transactions. Self-clearing securities firms are subject to substantially more regulatory control and examination than introducing brokers that rely on others to perform clearing functions. Errors in performing clearing functions, including clerical and other errors related to the handling of funds and securities held by us on behalf of our clients could lead to losses and liability in related lawsuits brought by clients and others. We are dependent on third-party clearing agents for executing and processing our futures transactions and any failures by them or difficulties in our third-party relationships could materially harm our business. We are dependent on certain third-party clearing agents for the orderly processing of futures and options on futures transactions. Our clearing agreements with our clearing firms may be terminated by any of the parties upon prior written notice. Breaches or termination of these agreements or the clearing firms' agreements with their third-party suppliers could harm our business. Termination of our relationship with our clearing firms could expose us to certain capital reserve requirements and other complex regulatory requirements imposed by federal and state securities laws, and additional system modifications, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, we have agreed to indemnify and hold harmless our clearing firms from certain liabilities or claims, including claims arising from the transactions of our clients, and may incur significant costs as a result. 14 Table of Contents Losses due to employee or customer fraud could have an adverse effect on our business. We are exposed to potential losses resulting from fraud and other misconduct by employees, clients or third-parties. Employees may bind us to transactions that exceed authorized limits or present unacceptable risks, hide from us unauthorized or unsuccessful activities or improperly use confidential information. Third-parties may engage in fraudulent activities, including fraudulent access to legitimate customer accounts, the use of a false identity to open an account, or the use of forged or counterfeit checks for payment. Such types of fraud may be difficult to prevent or detect and we may not be able to recover the losses caused by such activities. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. There is increasing globalization with associated risks. We are receiving increasing inquiries from foreign nationals who wish to trade financial instruments in the United States. To the extent that we may become increasingly reliant on foreign investors for revenue we face risks that foreign economic downturns may disrupt that revenue and also that servicing foreign clients may involve costly additional regulatory requirements. The banks in which we hold funds may cease doing business in the normal course. We hold large sums of both our and our customers' funds in various bank deposit accounts. Should those banking institutions become insolvent or are unable for any other reason such as governmental controls or extraordinary events in the financial system from returning our deposits the firm's operations and financial results could be materially impacted which could lead to a loss of customers, litigation and other adverse results to us. Servicing customers outside the United States involves special challenges that we may not be able to meet, which could negatively impact our financial results. Since our services are available over the Internet in foreign countries and we have customers residing in foreign countries, foreign jurisdictions may claim that we are required to qualify to do business in their country. We may be required to comply with the laws and regulations of each country in which we conduct business, including laws and regulations currently in place or which may be enacted related to Internet services available to their citizens from service providers located elsewhere. Any failure to develop effective compliance and reporting systems could result in regulatory penalties in the applicable jurisdiction, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our operations outside of the United States are subject to political, investment and local business risks. We have a Romanian subsidiary that performs software development. While the amount of revenues from such operations are not currently material to us, operations outside of the United States are subject to a variety of risks which are different from or additional to the risks we face within the United States. Among others, these risks include: • imposition of limitations on the remittance of dividends and payments by foreign subsidiaries; • adverse currency exchange rate fluctuations, including significant devaluations of currencies; • tax-related risks, including the imposition of taxes and lack of beneficial treaties, that result in higher effective tax rate for us; • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign local systems; • domestic and foreign customs, tariffs and quotas or other trade barriers; • difficulties in protecting intellectual property; • hiring and retaining qualified management personnel for our overseas operations; and • required compliance with a variety of local laws and regulations which may be materially different than those to which we are subject in the United States. The occurrence of one or more of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations. 15 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Common Stock The future sale of shares of our common stock may negatively impact our stock price. Our stock is thinly traded. If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock the market price of our common stock could fall. A reduction in ownership by one of our large shareholders could cause the market price of our common stock to fall. The price of our stock can fluctuate significantly. The market price of our stock has been volatile in the past and could decrease substantially. This could result for many reasons including variations in actual or anticipated annual or quarterly financial results, industry developments, or our reputation is harmed. Our quarterly financial results are subject to significant fluctuations which could cause our stock price to decrease. We have been subject to substantial fluctuations in quarterly net revenues and operating results and these fluctuations may recur in the future. We have previously experienced shortfalls in revenue and earnings from levels expected by investors which have had an immediate and significant adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock and this may recur in the future. Fluctuations may be caused by a number of factors, including: • the timing and volume of new customer accounts, trade volumes and software subscription fees; • the timing and amount of our expenses; • the introduction of competitive products by existing or new competitors; • reduced demand for any given product; • strategic alliances that fail to meet expectations; and • the market's transition between operating systems. These factors increase the chances that our results could diverge from the expectations of investors and analysts. If so, the market price of our stock would potentially decrease. Please see our accompanying financial statements. Our stock has traded historically at low values and has received little interest from the investment community. For the past three years our shares have traded at prices below $3.00 per share (as adjusted for the one-for-ten reverse stock split we completed in August 2007) and our highest closing price during the two year period ending December 31, 2009 was $1.62 per share. In August 2002, we were delisted from the NASDAQ SmallCap Market because of our failure to maintain minimum continued listing requirements. We will need to attract substantially more investor interest, post better financial results and profits, and continue to show upward sales trends in order to achieve an increased value for our shares. Even then, we will still face obstacles due to our penny stock status, lack of analyst following and our trading market on the OTC Bulletin Board. Holders of our common stock may not be able to sell their shares when desired if a liquid trading market does not develop or for their purchase price or more per share even if a liquid trading market develops. Our stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. The OTC Bulletin Board is a market with generally less liquidity and fewer buyers and sellers than the NASDAQ or other stock exchanges. Even if a liquid market develops for our stock there is no assurance that it can be maintained. This may affect the investors ability to sell shares on short notice and the sale of a large number of shares at one time could temporarily depress the market price of our stock. It should also be noted that we have only approximately 1,300 shareholders of which 192 are registered and more than 1,100 are beneficial holders holding through brokers. For these and other reasons our stock should not be viewed as a short-term investment. Shares listed on our registration statement on Form SB-2 (File no. 333-136194) were sold during a period utilizing the registration statement on Form SB-2 when it was not effective. Any purchaser of these shares may have rescission rights that could require us to repurchase their shares. Our registration statement on Form SB-2 (File no. 333-136194) was declared effective by the SEC on February 13, 2007 but was no longer effective as of November 13, 2007 because the registration statement was not properly updated with our current audited financial information. It has since been properly updated and a Post-Effective Amendment No.2 to the registration statement was declared effective on February 10, 2010. Any shares offered and sold utilizing that registration statement and the related prospectus after November 13, 2007, but before the Post-Effective Amendment No. 2 was declared effective on February 10, 2010, would not comply with Section 10(a)(3) and Sections 5(b)(1) and 5(b)(2) of the Act and may be subject to rescission. We believe that 9,200 of our shares were sold pursuant to the registration statement on Form SB-2 after November 13, 2007 and before February 10, 2010 and it is possible that there were an additional 32,872 of our shares that could have also been sold during that period. In order to address this issue, if the identity of any purchasers of such shares is ascertained, we will make a rescission offer to the purchasers of these shares. If any such rescission offer is accepted we could be required to make a payment(s) to the purchaser(s) of these shares at the price of the shares on the date of the transaction plus any applicable statutory interest. Federal securities laws do not provide that a rescission offer will terminate a purchaser's right to rescind a sale of stock that was not registered as required or was not otherwise exempt from such registration requirements. If any or all of the potential offerees reject the rescission offer we may continue to be liable under federal and state securities laws for such sales of shares pursuant to the registration statement on Form SB-2 since November 13, 2007 plus any statutory interest we may be required to pay. In addition, regulators could impose monetary fines or other sanctions as provided under federal or state securities laws. 16 Table of Contents Substantial sales of our shares may have an adverse impact on the trading price of our shares. Shareholders may decide that they do not want to continue holding shares in us and may sell their shares. We cannot predict whether shareholders will resell large numbers of our shares in the public market. If our shareholders sell large numbers of our shares over a short period of time, or if investors anticipate large sales of our shares over a short period of time, this could adversely affect the trading price of our shares. Our shareholders may experience significant dilution if future equity offerings are used to fund operations or acquire complementary businesses or as a result of option and warrant exercises. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of up to 150,000,000 shares of common stock and up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. There are 25,054,508 shares of common stock outstanding and no shares of preferred stock outstanding as of March 1, 2010. Additionally, we have issued options and warrants to purchase our common stock. There are an additional approximately 17.7 million shares available for purchase under outstanding warrants and options. We may seek to raise additional capital to meet our financial needs through the sale of equity or other securities, acquire complementary businesses through the issuance of equity or other securities or have stock options exercised. Our Board of Directors has the power to issue substantial additional shares of common stock and preferred stock without shareholder approval. Potential investors should be aware that any such stock issuance may result in reduction of the book value or market price, if any, of the outstanding shares of common stock. If we issue any additional shares of common stock or preferred stock such issuance will reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of all shareholders. Further, any new issuance of shares may result in a change in control of us. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management's attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified board members. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act"), and the other rules and regulations of the SEC. The requirements of these rules and regulations create additional legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and may also place undue strain on our systems and resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls for financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight will be required. As a result, management's attention may be diverted from other business concerns which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified independent members of our Board of Directors. Additionally, we expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. We may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. If we fail to remain current on our reporting requirements we could be removed from the OTCBB, which would limit the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and the ability of shareholders to sell their securities in the secondary market. If we fail to remain current on our reporting requirements under the Exchange Act we could be removed from the OTCBB. As a result, the market liquidity for our securities could be severely adversely affected by limiting the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and the ability of shareholders to sell their securities in the secondary market. In the past we have on occasion extended the date required for filing annual and quarterly reports and have been late on one or more filings. Our common stock is subject to the "penny stock" rules of the SEC and the trading market in our securities is limited, which makes transactions in our stock cumbersome and may reduce the value of an investment in our stock. The SEC has adopted Rule 15g-9 which establishes the definition of a "penny stock," for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the "penny stock" rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of our common stock and cause a decline in the market value of our stock. 17 Table of Contents Because we have no plans to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future investors must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their investment in us. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to support our operations and growth. Any payment of cash dividends in the future will be dependent on the amount of funds legally available, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Some provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws may discourage takeovers and serve to entrench management. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain some anti-takeover provisions that may discourage or make more difficult a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by our Board of Directors. In particular, our articles of incorporation and/or bylaws: • require shareholders to give us advance notice to nominate candidates for election to our Board of Directors; • permit our Board of Directors to issue, without shareholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the board may determine; and • require the vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the voting shares for shareholder amendments to certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws. These provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and Illinois law, could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control of us, even though a majority of our shareholders may consider such proposals, if effected, desirable. These provisions could also make it more difficult for third parties to remove and replace the members of our Board of Directors. Moreover, these provisions could diminish the opportunities for shareholders to participate in some tender offers, including tender offers at prices above the then-current market value of our shares and may also inhibit increases in the trading price of our shares that could result from takeover attempts or speculation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 