Risk Factors The risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are important factors, among others, that could cause actual results to differ from expected or historical results. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, this list should not be considered a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. (See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a note regarding forward-looking statements.) We may lose business to competitors throughout the vacation market. We operate in the vacation market and cruising is one of many alternatives for people choosing a vacation. We therefore risk losing business not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators, which provide other leisure options including hotels, resorts and package holidays and tours. We face significant competition from other cruise lines, both on the basis of cruise pricing and also in terms of the nature of ships and services we offer to passengers. Our principal competitors within the cruise vacation industry include Carnival Corporation & plc, which owns, among others, Carnival Cruise Lines, Princess Cruises, Costa Cruises, Holland America Line, P&O Cruises, Cunard Line and Aida Cruises; Star Cruises; NCL Corporation Ltd., which owns, among others, Norwegian Cruise Line; Mediterranean Shipping Company, which owns MSC Cruises; Disney Cruise Line; and Oceania Cruises. 19 In the event that we do not compete effectively with other vacation alternatives and cruise companies, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. Overcapacity within the cruise vacation industry, a reduction in demand or geo-political and economic uncertainties could have a negative impact on revenues, result in impairment of assets and may adversely affect our results of operations. Cruising capacity has grown in recent years and we expect it to increase further as the major cruise vacation companies introduce new ships. Demand for cruises has been and is expected to continue to be dependent on the strength of the economies in the countries in which we market our products, the public’s attitude towards the safety of travel and the geo-political climate. Economic or political changes may reduce demand for cruise vacations and may lead to reduced occupancy and/or price discounting. For instance, the current weakening of the U.S. economy and the tighter credit markets could have an adverse effect on vacationers’ discretionary income and consumer confidence, which could result in a lower demand for cruises, lower cruise prices and lower onboard revenues, all of which would adversely affect our revenues. In turn, these results could have a negative impact on revenues, result in impairment of assets and may adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Fears of terrorist attacks, war and other hostilities and the spread of contagious diseases could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Events such as terrorist attacks, war and other hostilities and the resulting political instability, travel restrictions, the spread of contagious diseases and concerns over safety, health and security aspects of traveling have had, and could have in the future, a significant adverse impact on demand and pricing in the travel and vacation industry. These events could also impact our ability to source qualified crew from throughout the world at competitive costs and, therefore, increase our shipboard employee costs. Incidents or adverse publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry or unusual weather conditions could affect our reputation and harm our future sales and results of operations. The operation of cruise ships involves the risk of accidents, illnesses and other incidents which may bring into question passenger safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction and thereby adversely affect future industry performance. Incidents involving cruise ships, adverse media publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry or unusual weather patterns or natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes, could impact demand and consequently have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Environmental, health and safety, financial responsibility and other maritime regulations could affect operations and increase operating costs. The United States and various state and foreign government or regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations or policies that could adversely impact the cruise vacation industry. Some environmental groups have lobbied for more stringent regulation of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise vacation industry and its environmental impact. In addition, we are subject to various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties that govern, among other things, safety standards applicable to our ships, health and sanitary standards applicable to our passengers, security standards on board our ships and at the ship/port interface areas, and financial responsibilities to our passengers. These issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. This could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that would subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. In November 2007, the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (“CBP”) proposed an interpretive rule to the United States Passenger Vessel Services Act (“PVSA”) which would require that all roundtrip U.S. cruises by foreign flag vessels spend at least 48 hours in each foreign port of the cruise and that the time spent in foreign ports must be more than 50% of the time spent in all U.S. ports on the cruise. We believe that the CBP issued the proposed rule to protect Norwegian Cruise Line's operations in Hawaii by making it more difficult for foreign-flagged ships to conduct cruises going to Hawaii. However, if the rule is adopted as proposed, it could 20 be construed to apply to other non-Hawaii itineraries such as Seattle-based Alaska and some Caribbean cruises, which may no longer qualify under the PVSA. If this was to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to obtain financing on terms that are favorable or consistent with our expectations. To fund our capital expenditures and scheduled debt payments, we rely on a combination of cash flows provided by operations, drawdowns under our available credit facilities, the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the sales of equity or debt securities in private or public securities markets. Our credit ratings impact our ability to obtain financing in financial markets and the terms of the financing. Any lowering of our credit ratings may have adverse consequences on our ability to access the financial markets and/or on our cost of financings. In addition, interest rates and our ability to obtain financing are dependent on many economic and political factors beyond our control. Accordingly, we cannot be sure that our cash flows from operations and additional financings will be available in accordance with our expectations. Conducting business internationally may result in increased costs and other risks. We operate our business internationally and plan to continue to develop our international presence. Operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks. Examples include political risks and risk of increases in duties and taxes as well as changes in laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses, or governing the operations of foreign-based companies. Additional risks include currency fluctuations, interest rate movements, imposition of trade barriers and restrictions on repatriation of earnings. If we are unable to address these risks adequately, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have ship construction contracts, which are denominated in euros. While we have entered into euro-denominated forward contracts to manage a portion of the currency risk associated with these ship construction contracts, we are exposed to fluctuations in the euro exchange rate for the portion of the ship construction contracts that has not been hedged. If the shipyard is unable to perform under the related ship construction contract, any foreign currency hedges that were entered into to manage the currency risk would need to be terminated. Termination of these contracts could result in a significant loss. Ship construction delays or mechanical faults may result in cancellation of cruises or unscheduled drydocks and repairs and thus adversely affect our results of operations. We depend on shipyards to construct and deliver our cruise ships on a timely basis and in good working order. The sophisticated nature of building a ship involves risks. Delays or mechanical faults in ship construction have in the past and may in the future result in delays or cancellation of cruises or necessitate unscheduled drydocks and repairs of ships. We have, for example, experienced mechanical problems with the pod propulsion units on certain ships and there can be no assurance that we will not experience such problems in the future. Delays or cancellations of cruise ships may also adversely impact our ability to maintain our contractual minimum commitments to our ports. These events and any related adverse publicity could result in lost revenue, increased operating expenses, or both, and thus adversely affect our results of operations. Shipyard financial difficulties or insolvencies, shortages in available shipbuilding facilities and component parts due to strong demand for shipbuilding services within the industry, and industry consolidations may cause delivery delays or price increases that could adversely affect our results of operations. Conditions in the shipyard industry over which we have no control can affect our financial results. For example, we regularly introduce new ships to our fleet, and regularly repair and refurbish our existing fleet. The timely delivery of new ships and our ability to repair and refurbish our fleet can be adversely affected by factors such as shipyard financial difficulties, shortages in shipbuilding component parts and capacity constraints at qualified shipyard repair facilities. Delivery delays and cancelled deliveries can adversely affect our results of operations, as can any constraints on our ability to repair and maintain our ships on a timely basis. In addition, the cruise shipyard industry is undergoing consolidation, which could result in stronger bargaining power on the part of the shipyards, and thus higher prices for our ships. 21 Aker Yards Oy, the shipyard that is building Independence of the Seas and our two Project Genesis class ships, announced a lowering of its projected profits and delays in the construction of its vessels. We have engaged in discussions with Aker Yards Oy to assess the impact of this situation on the ships they are building for us. Based on such discussions, we do not expect that this situation will have a material impact on our results of operations. However, in the event that the financial situation of Aker Yards Oy deteriorates further, it could have a material impact on the delivery and costs associated with our Project Genesis class ships and our future results of operations. Our operating costs and taxes could increase due to market forces and economic or political factors beyond our control. Our operating costs, including fuel, food, payroll, insurance and security costs are subject to increases due to market forces and economic or political instability or other factors beyond our control. Increases in these operating costs could adversely affect our profitability. In addition, United States state and local authorities as well as foreign authorities periodically consider increases in taxes. The implementation of these and other taxes could also cause an increase in our costs. The Office of the Attorney General for the State of Florida is conducting a review of our temporary fuel supplement that we implemented in the fourth quarter of 2007 on our Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, and Azamara Cruises brands. We are cooperating with the Attorney General’s office in connection with this review and investigation. At this time, we are unable to determine the impact of this item on our 2008 consolidated financial statements. Unavailability of ports of call may adversely affect our results of operations. We believe that port destinations are a major reason why passengers choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. The availability of ports is affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, existing capacity constraints, security concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our competitors, local governmental regulations and local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists. Any limitations on the availability of our ports of call or on the availability of shore excursion and other service providers at such ports could adversely affect our results of operations. Price increases for commercial airline service for our passengers or major changes or reduction in commercial airline service could undermine our ability to provide reasonably priced vacation packages to our guests. Many of our guests depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to or from the ports where our cruises embark or disembark. Increases in the price of airfare would increase the overall price of the cruise vacation to our guests which may adversely impact demand for our cruises. In addition, changes in the availability of commercial airline services could adversely affect our ability to fly our passengers to or from our cruise ships which could adversely affect our results of operations. A change in our tax status under the United States Internal Revenue Code, or other jurisdictions, may have adverse effects on our income. We and a number of our subsidiaries are foreign corporations that derive income from a United States trade or business and/or from sources within the United States. Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP, our United States tax counsel, has delivered to us an opinion, based on certain representations and assumptions set forth in it, to the effect that this income, to the extent derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, is exempt from United States income tax pursuant to Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code. We believe that most of our income (including that of our subsidiaries) is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships. In 2005, final regulations under Section 883 became effective, which narrowed somewhat the scope of activities that are considered by the Internal Revenue Service to be incidental to the international operation of ships. To the extent the income from non-incidental activities is earned from sources within the United States, that income will be subject to United States taxation; but the determination of the precise amount of such United States source income involves some uncertainties. 22 It should also be noted that the provisions of Section 883 are subject to change at any time by legislation. Moreover, changes could occur in the future with respect to the identity, residence or holdings of our direct or indirect shareholders that could affect our eligibility for the Section 883 exemption. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be exempt from United States income tax on United States source shipping income in the future. If we were not entitled to the benefit of Section 883, we and our subsidiaries would be subject to United States taxation on a portion of the income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships, which would reduce our net income. See Taxation of the Company above for a discussion of such taxation in the absence of an exemption under Section 883. Finally, changes in the income tax laws affecting our operations in Malta, the United Kingdom or elsewhere could result in higher income taxes being charged against our operations, resulting in lower net income. We are controlled by principal shareholders that have the power to determine our policies, management and actions requiring shareholder approval. As of February 12, 2008, A. Wilhelmsen AS., a Norwegian corporation indirectly owned by members of the Wilhelmsen family of Norway, owned approximately 20.1% of our common stock and Cruise Associates, a Bahamian general partnership indirectly owned by various trusts primarily for the benefit of certain members of the Pritzker family and a trust primarily for the benefit of certain members of the Ofer family, owned approximately 15.6% of our common stock. A. Wilhelmsen AS. and Cruise Associates have the power to determine, among other things: • our policies and the policies of our subsidiaries, • the persons who will be our directors and officers, and • actions requiring shareholder approval. A. Wilhelmsen AS. and Cruise Associates are parties to a shareholders’ agreement. The agreement provides that our board of directors will consist of the following persons: • four nominees of A. Wilhelmsen AS., • four nominees of Cruise Associates and • our Chief Executive Officer. During the term of the shareholders’ agreement, certain corporate actions require the approval of at least one director nominated by A. Wilhelmsen AS. and one director nominated by Cruise Associates. Our principal shareholders are not prohibited from engaging in a business that may compete with our business, subject to certain exceptions. If any person other than A. Wilhelmsen AS. and Cruise Associates, our two principal shareholders, acquires ownership of more than 30% of our common stock and our two principal shareholders, in the aggregate, own less of our common stock than such person and do not collectively have the right to elect, or to designate for election, at least a majority of the board of directors, we may be obligated to prepay indebtedness outstanding under the majority of our credit facilities, which we may be unable to replace on similar terms. If this were to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our liquidity and operations. The holders of our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their equity interest as a result of the sale of currently restricted shares of our common stock into the public market. A substantial number of shares of our common stock were either issued by us in private transactions not involving a public offering or are held by our affiliates and, therefore the sale of these securities is subject to restrictions under the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”). These shares include the 20.1% shares of our common stock held by A. Wilhelmsen AS. and the 15.6% held by Cruise Associates. No predictions can be made as to the effect, if any, that market sales of such shares, or the availability of such shares for future market sales, will have on the market price of our common stock prevailing from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perceptions that such sales could occur, could materially adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through an offering of equity securities. Each of A. Wilhelmsen AS. and Cruise Associates has the right, pursuant to a registration rights agreement, to require us, subject to certain qualifications, to effect the registration under the Securities Act of all or part of their shares of common stock which would allow these shares to be sold into the public market. 23 We are not a United States corporation and our shareholders may be subject to the uncertainties of a foreign legal system in protecting their interests. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Restated Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws and by the Business Corporation Act of Liberia. The provisions of the Business Corporation Act of Liberia resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, while most states have a fairly well developed body of case law interpreting their respective corporate statutes, there are very few judicial cases in Liberia interpreting the Business Corporation Act of Liberia. For example, the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under Liberian law are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain United States jurisdictions. Thus, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests with respect to actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. Litigation, enforcement actions, fines or penalties could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations and/or damage our reputation. Our business is subject to various United States and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. In addition, improper conduct by our employees or agents could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. In certain circumstances it may not be economical to defend against such matters and/or a legal strategy my not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter. Such events could lead to an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 