Item 1A. Risk Factors The risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are important factors that could cause actual results to differ from expected or historical results. It is not possible to predict or identify all such risks. The risks described below are only those known risks relating to our operations and financial condition that we consider material. There may be additional risks that we consider not to be material, or which are not known, and any of these risks could have the effects set forth below. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements. Adverse worldwide economic conditions could reduce the demand for cruises and adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. The demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic and business conditions and is sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending. The recent severe economic downturn coupled with continued negative economic indicators, including high unemployment rates, the volatility in the price of fuel and declines in the securities, real estate and other markets, has had an adverse effect on vacationers’ discretionary income and consumer confidence. This, in turn, has resulted in cruise booking slowdowns, decreased cruise prices and lower onboard revenues for us and for the others in the cruise industry. Although the cruise industry began to recover in 2010, we cannot 22 Table of Contents predict with any certainty whether demand for cruises will continue to improve or the rate of such improvement. Stagnant or worsening global economic conditions could result in a prolonged period of booking slowdowns, depressed cruise prices and reduced onboard revenues. This could adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition including the impairment of the value of our ships, goodwill and other assets. We may not be able to obtain sufficient financing or capital for our needs or may not be able to do so on terms that are acceptable or consistent with our expectations. To fund our capital expenditures and scheduled debt payments, we have historically relied on a combination of cash flows provided by operations, drawdowns under available credit facilities, the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the sale of equity or debt securities in private or public securities markets. The decrease in consumer cruise spending as a result of the recent severe economic downturn had an adverse impact on our cash flows from operations and if the current economic conditions worsen our operational cash flows could continue to be negatively affected. See “–Adverse worldwide economic conditions could reduce the demand for cruises and adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition.” Although we believe we have or can access sufficient liquidity to fund our operations and obligations as expected, there can be no assurances to that effect. Our ability to timely refinance and/or replace our credit facilities on acceptable terms and our ability to access additional funding, as may be needed, will depend upon continued and sustained improvements in the financial markets as well as our financial results and credit ratings and the performance of our industry in general. In addition, our ability to make draws under our revolving credit facilities is subject to the absence of any material adverse changes in our business. Our inability to satisfy the covenants required by our credit facilities would adversely impact our liquidity. Our debt agreements contain covenants, including covenants restricting our ability to take certain actions and financial covenants that require us to maintain minimum net worth and fixed charge coverage ratios and limit our net debt-to-capital ratio. Our ability to comply with the terms of our outstanding facilities may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions and other events, some of which may be beyond our control. Our failure to comply with the terms of our debt facilities could result in an event of default. Generally, if an event of default under any debt agreement occurs, then pursuant to cross default acceleration clauses, substantially all of our outstanding debt and derivative contract payables could become due and/or terminated. We cannot provide assurances that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay or refinance the borrowings under any of the credit facilities or settle our outstanding derivative contracts if such amounts were accelerated upon an event of default. In addition, we have agreements with a number of credit card companies and processors that accept credit cards for the sale of cruises and other services. Under certain of these agreements, the credit card processor may hold back a reserve from our credit card receivables following the occurrence of certain events, including a default under our major credit facilities. As of December 31, 2010, we were not required to maintain any reserve under such agreements. If circumstances were to occur that would allow a credit card processor to require us to maintain a reserve, our liquidity would be negatively impacted. The impact of disruptions in the global financial markets may affect the ability of our counterparties and others to perform their obligations to us. The recent severe economic downturn, including failures of financial service companies and the related liquidity crisis, disrupted the capital and credit markets. A recurrence of these disruptions could cause our counterparties and others to breach their obligations to us under our contracts with them. This could include failures of banks or other financial service companies to fund required borrowings under our loan agreements or to pay us amounts that may become due under our derivative contracts for hedging of fuel prices, interest rates and foreign currencies or other agreements. If this occurs it may have a negative impact on our cash flows including our ability to meet our obligations, results of operations and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents The increase in capacity resulting from delivery of newbuilds currently on order within the cruise industry could further adversely impact the demand for cruises or cruise pricing. A total of 20 new ships are on order for delivery through 2014 in the cruise industry, two of which are ours. The further growth in capacity from these new ships, without an increase in the cruise industry’s share of the vacation market, could depress cruise prices and compound our ability to achieve yield improvement. If we are unable to appropriately balance our cost management strategy with our goal of satisfying guest expectations it may adversely impact our business success. Our goals are to provide high quality products and deliver high quality services. There can be no assurances that we can successfully balance these goals with our cost containment strategy. We may lose business to competitors throughout the vacation market. We operate in the vacation market and cruising is one of many alternatives for people choosing a vacation. We therefore risk losing business not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators, which provide other leisure options including hotels, resorts and package holidays and tours. We face significant competition from other cruise lines on the basis of cruise pricing, travel agent preference and also in terms of the nature of ships and services we offer to guests. Our principal competitors within the cruise vacation industry include Carnival Corporation & plc, which owns, among others, Aida Cruises, Carnival Cruise Lines, Costa Cruises, Cunard Line, Holland America Line, Iberocruceros, P&O Cruises and Princess Cruises; Disney Cruise Line; MSC Cruises; Norwegian Cruise Line and Oceania Cruises. In the event that we do not compete effectively with other vacation alternatives and cruise companies, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. Fears of terrorist and pirate attacks, war, and other hostilities and the spread of contagious diseases could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Events such as terrorist and pirate attacks, war, and other hostilities and the resulting political instability, travel restrictions, the spread of contagious diseases and concerns over safety, health and security aspects of traveling or the fear of any of the foregoing have had, and could have in the future, a significant adverse impact on demand and pricing in the travel and vacation industry. These events could also impact our ability to source qualified crew from throughout the world at competitive costs and, therefore, increase our shipboard employee costs. Incidents or adverse publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry, unusual weather conditions and other natural disasters or disruptions could affect our reputation and harm our future sales and results of operations. The operation of cruise ships involves the risk of accidents, illnesses and other incidents which may bring into question guest safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction and create a perception that cruising is more dangerous than other vacation alternatives. Incidents involving cruise ships, and, in particular our cruise ships, adverse media publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry or unusual weather patterns or natural disasters or disruptions, such as hurricanes and earthquakes, could impact demand for our cruises. In addition, any events which impact the travel industry more generally may negatively impact our ability to deliver guests to our cruises and/or interrupt our ability to obtain services and goods from key vendors in our supply chain. Any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and on future industry performance. 24 Table of Contents Environmental, labor, health and safety, financial responsibility and other maritime regulations could affect operations and increase operating costs. The United States and various state and foreign government or regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations or policies, such as requiring the use of low sulfur fuels, increasing fuel efficiency requirements or further restricting emissions that could increase our cost for fuel and adversely impact the cruise vacation industry. See “Item 1. Business — Regulation —Environmental Regulations.” An increase in fuel prices not only impacts our fuel costs, but also some of our other expenses, such as crew travel, freight and commodity prices. In addition, initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions have been introduced or are being considered in several European countries, and, beginning in January 2011, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency began regulating the carbon emissions of companies operating in the United States. Although not all initiatives are likely to be implemented, it is apparent that future legislation and regulations related to climate change could impact the cruise industry and adversely impact our costs. Some environmental groups have also lobbied for more stringent regulation of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise vacation industry and its environmental impact. With regards to labor, we anticipate that the new standards set forth in the Maritime Labour Convention when ratified and effective (which we currently believe may occur in 2011 and 2012, respectively) will likely result in increased costs associated with our onboard employees. See “Item 1. Business —Regulation —Labor Regulations.” While we have been actively seeking ways to mitigate the potential impact on our business, there can be no assurances that our efforts will be successful or that our financial results of operations will not be materially impacted. In addition, we are subject to various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties that govern, among other things, safety standards applicable to our ships, treatment of disabled persons, health and sanitary standards applicable to our guests, security standards on board our ships and at the ship/port interface areas, and financial responsibilities to our guests. These issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. This could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that would subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. Conducting business internationally may result in increased costs and other risks. We operate our business internationally and plan to continue to develop our international presence. Operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks, including unstable local economic conditions. Certain countries have been more severely impacted by the recent economic downturn than other economies around the world where we do business including, for example, Spain where we operate our Pullmantur brand. Other risks attendant to operating internationally include volatile local political conditions, potential increases in duties and taxes, changes in laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses or governing the operations of foreign-based companies, currency fluctuations, interest rate movements, imposition of trade barriers and restrictions on repatriation of earnings. If we are unable to address these risks adequately, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected, including the impairment of the value of our ships, goodwill and other assets. Operating internationally exposes us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements. In many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate, practices in the local business communities might not conform to international business standards. We may not be successful in ensuring that our employees and other representatives stationed throughout the world properly adhere to our policies or applicable laws or regulations. Failure to adhere to our policies or applicable laws or regulations could result in penalties, sanctions, damage to our reputation and related costs which in turn could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. We have ship construction contracts which are denominated in euros. While we have entered into euro-denominated forward contracts to manage a portion of the currency risk associated with these ship construction contracts, we are exposed to fluctuations in the euro exchange rate for the portion of the ship construction contracts that has not been hedged. If the shipyard is unable to perform under the related ship construction contract, any foreign currency hedges that were entered into to manage the currency risk would need to be terminated. Termination of these contracts could result in a significant loss. Our attempts to expand our business into new markets may not be successful. Historically our focus has been to serve the North American cruise market, which continues to be our primary source of cruise passengers. We have expanded our focus to increase our international passenger sourcing, most recently, in the Brazilian, Asian and Australian markets. Expansion into new markets requires significant levels of investment. There can be no assurance that these markets will develop as anticipated or that we will have success in these markets, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Ship construction, repair or refurbishment delays or mechanical faults may result in cancellation of cruises or unscheduled drydocks and repairs and thus adversely affect our results of operations. We depend on shipyards to construct and deliver our cruise ships on a timely basis and in good working order. The sophisticated nature of building a ship involves risks. Delays or mechanical faults in ship construction have in the past and may in the future result in delays or cancellation of cruises or necessitate unscheduled drydocks and repairs of ships. We have, for example, experienced mechanical problems with the pod propulsion units on certain ships and there can be no assurance that we will not experience such problems in the future. These events and any related adverse publicity could result in lost revenue, increased operating expenses, or both, and thus adversely affect our results of operations. Shipyards and their subcontractors may experience financial difficulties which could cause or result in delay, ship cancellations or increases in shipbuilding costs that could adversely affect our results of operations. We rely on shipyards to construct, repair and refurbish our vessels. Financial difficulties, liquidations or closures suffered by these shipyards and/or their subcontractors may impact the timely delivery or costs of new ships or the ability of shipyards to repair and refurbish our existing fleet in accordance with our needs or expectations. Delivery delays and cancelled deliveries can adversely affect our results of operations, as can any constraints on our ability to repair and maintain our ships on a timely basis. Our operating costs, especially fuel expenditures, could increase due to market forces and economic or geo- political factors beyond our control. Expenditures for fuel represent a significant cost of operating our business. If fuel prices rise significantly in a short period of time, we may be unable to increase fares or other fees sufficiently to offset fully our increased fuel costs. We routinely hedge a portion of our future fuel requirements to protect against rising fuel costs. However, there can be no assurance that our hedge contracts will provide a sufficient level of protection against increased fuel costs or that our counterparties will be able to perform under our hedge contracts, such as in the case of a counterparty’s bankruptcy. Further volatility in fuel prices or disruptions in fuel supplies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our other operating costs, including food, payroll, airfare for our shipboard personnel, taxes, insurance and security costs are all subject to increases due to market forces and economic or political conditions or other factors beyond our control. Increases in these operating costs could adversely affect our profitability. Unavailability of ports of call may adversely affect our results of operations. We believe that port destinations are a major reason why passengers choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. The availability of ports is affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, existing capacity constraints, security concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our competitors, local governmental regulations and local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists. Any limitations on the availability of our ports of call or on the availability of shore excursion and other service providers at such ports could adversely affect our results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Price increases for commercial airline service for our guests or major changes or reduction in commercial airline service could adversely impact the demand for cruises and undermine our ability to provide reasonably priced vacation packages to our guests. Many of our guests depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to or from the ports where our cruises embark or disembark. Increases in the price of airfare would increase the overall price of the cruise vacation to our guests which may adversely impact demand for our cruises. In addition, changes in the availability of commercial airline services could adversely affect our guest’s ability to obtain airfare as well as our ability to fly our guests to or from our cruise ships which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our reliance on travel agencies to sell and market our cruises exposes us to certain risks which, if realized, could adversely impact our business. Because we rely on travel agencies to generate the majority of bookings for our ships, we must ensure that our commission rates and incentive structures remain competitive. If we fail to offer competitive compensation packages, these agencies may be incentivized to sell cruises offered by our competitors to our detriment, which could adversely impact our operating results. In addition, the travel agent industry is sensitive to economic conditions that impact discretionary income. Significant disruptions or contractions in the industry could reduce the number of travel agencies available for us to market and sell our cruises, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. A disruption in our shoreside business may adversely affect our results of operations. Our principal executive office and shoreside operations are located at the Port of Miami, Florida and we have call centers for reservations throughout the world. Although we have developed disaster recovery and similar contingency plans, actual or threatened natural disasters (e.g. hurricanes, earthquakes, tornados, fires, floods), substantial or repeated information systems failures, computer viruses and hackers or similar events in these locations may have a material impact to our business continuity and results of operations. Further, we do not carry business interruption insurance for the majority of our shoreside operations. As such, any losses or damages incurred by us could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Failure to develop the value of our brands and differentiate our products could adversely affect our results of operations. Our success depends on the strength and continued development of our cruise brands and on the effectiveness of our brand strategies. Failure to protect and differentiate our brands from competitors throughout the vacation market could adversely affect our results of operations. The loss of key personnel, our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel or disruptions among our shipboard personnel due to strained employee relations could adversely affect our results of operations. Our success depends, in large part, on the skills and contributions of key executives and other employees, and on our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees. We must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees sufficient to maintain our current business and support our projected growth. Furthermore, as of December 31, 2010, 80% of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. A dispute under our collective bargaining agreements could result in a work stoppage of those employees covered by the agreements. A loss of key employees or disruptions among our shipboard personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. 27 Table of Contents Business activities that involve our co-investment with third parties may subject us to additional risks. Partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties, such as our joint venture to operate TUI Cruises, generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create additional risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. In addition, actions by another investor may present additional risks of operational difficulties. We may not realize the intended benefits of our technological investments. As part of our strategic focus, we intend to invest resources into technology that will be complementary to our business. Technology development can require a significant amount of management time and financial resources and is subject to integration and implementation challenges, rapid change, short life cycles and obsolescence. There can be no assurances that the resources we invest will be sufficient to materially improve the guest experience or customer satisfaction with our company. Accordingly, there can be no assurances that these investments will generate positive returns. A change in our tax status under the United States Internal Revenue Code, or other jurisdictions, may have adverse effects on our income. We and a number of our subsidiaries are foreign corporations that derive income from a United States trade or business and/or from sources within the United States. Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP, our United States tax counsel, has delivered to us an opinion, based on certain representations and assumptions set forth in it, to the effect that this income, to the extent derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, is exempt from United States federal income tax pursuant to Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code. We believe that most of our income (including that of our subsidiaries) is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships. The provisions of Section 883 are subject to change at any time by legislation. Moreover, changes could occur in the future with respect to the identity, residence or holdings of our direct or indirect shareholders, or relevant foreign tax laws, that could affect our eligibility for the Section 883 exemption. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be exempt from United States income tax on United States source shipping income in the future. If we were not entitled to the benefit of Section 883, we and our subsidiaries would be subject to United States taxation on a portion of the income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships, which would reduce our net income. See “Item 1. Business —Taxation of the Company” for a discussion of such taxation in the absence of an exemption under Section 883. As part of our growth strategy, we have recently expanded our presence within the U.K. tonnage tax regime and maintained our participation in various other international tonnage tax regimes. See “Item 1. Business —Taxation of the Company.” To the extent the tonnage tax laws change or we do not continue to meet the applicable requirements, we may be required to pay higher income tax in these jurisdictions, resulting in lower net income. As budgetary constraints continue to adversely impact the jurisdictions in which we operate, increases in income tax regulations affecting our operations may be imposed. We are controlled by principal shareholders that have the power to determine our policies, management and actions requiring shareholder approval. As of February 14, 2011, A. Wilhelmsen AS., a Norwegian corporation indirectly owned by members of the Wilhelmsen family of Norway, owned approximately 19.4% of our common stock and Cruise Associates, a Bahamian general partnership indirectly owned by various trusts primarily for the benefit of certain members of the Pritzker family and a trust primarily for the benefit of certain members of the Ofer family, owned approximately 15.4% of our common stock. A significant sale of shares by A. Wilhelmsen AS. or Cruise Associates, or a perception that either may sell a material amount of shares, could cause a drop in our share prices. 28 Table of Contents A. Wilhelmsen AS. and Cruise Associates are parties to a shareholders’ agreement which provides that they will each vote their shares for the election of four nominees of A. Wilhelmsen AS., four nominees of Cruise Associates and our Chief Executive Officer. Our Articles of Incorporation require that during the term of the shareholders agreement the approval of at least one director affiliated with A. Wilhelmsen AS. and one director affiliated with Cruise Associates is required for certain corporate actions. As such, A. Wilhelmsen AS and Cruise Associates or either of them have the power to determine, among other things, certain of our policies, the persons who will be our officers, and actions requiring shareholder approval. A. Wilhelmsen AS. and Cruise Associates are not prohibited from engaging in a business that may compete with our business, subject to certain exceptions. If any person other than A. Wilhelmsen AS. and Cruise Associates acquires ownership of more than 30% of our common stock and our two principal shareholders, in the aggregate, own less of our common stock than such person and do not collectively have the right to elect, or to designate for election, at least a majority of the board of directors, we may be obligated to prepay indebtedness outstanding under the majority of our credit facilities, which we may be unable to replace on similar terms. If this were to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our liquidity and operations. We are not a United States corporation and our shareholders may be subject to the uncertainties of a foreign legal system in protecting their interests. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Restated Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws and by the Business Corporation Act of Liberia. The provisions of the Business Corporation Act of Liberia resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, while most states have a fairly well developed body of case law interpreting their respective corporate statutes, there are very few judicial cases in Liberia interpreting the Business Corporation Act of Liberia. As such, the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under Liberian law are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain United States jurisdictions. For example, the right of shareholders to bring a derivative action in Liberian courts may be more limited than in United States jurisdictions. There may also be practical difficulties for shareholders attempting to bring suit in Liberia and Liberian courts may or may not recognize and enforce foreign judgments. Thus, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests with respect to actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. Litigation, enforcement actions, fines or penalties could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations and/or damage our reputation. Our business is subject to various United States and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. In addition, improper conduct by our employees or agents could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. In certain circumstances it may not be economical to defend against such matters and/or a legal strategy may not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter. Such events could lead to an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Provisions of our Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws and Liberian law could inhibit others from acquiring us, prevent a change of control, and may prevent efforts by our shareholders to change our management. Certain provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and Liberian law may inhibit third parties from effectuating a change of control of the Company without Board approval which could result in the entrenchment of current management. These include provisions in our Articles of Incorporation that prevent third parties, other than A. Wilhelmsen AS. and Cruise Associates, from acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of our outstanding shares without the consent of our Board of Directors. 29 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 