Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If that happens, the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly. The risk factors below contain forward-looking statements regarding the Company. Actual results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. We face substantial competition and rapid change from other industry participants and competitors, including other securities and financial services firms, which could harm our financial performance if we fail to compete. We encounter aggressive competition from numerous competitors in most areas of our business. In addition, new competitors may emerge at any time. The competitiveness of our operations may be threatened by new technologies or market trends which could lead to reduced financial results. In addition, the market for securities and financial services and the related infrastructure products and services is rapidly evolving and highly competitive. Competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, offer a wider range of services and financial products and may have greater name recognition and more extensive client bases. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies and client requirements and may be able to implement significant technology enhancements or offerings, undertake more extensive 8 Table of Contents promotional activities, offer more attractive terms to clients and adopt more aggressive pricing policies than ours, based on our limited resources. If we fail to compete effectively, our revenue could decrease and our operating results could be materially harmed. We operate in a highly regulated industry and compliance failures could adversely affect our business. Our procedures may not be sufficient to properly monitor our correspondents or clearing partners or protect us from liability for their acts under current laws and regulations. Any intentional failure, negligence or unintentional errors in properly performing our clearing functions or any mishandling of funds and securities held by us on behalf of our correspondents and their clients could lead to censures, fines or other sanctions by applicable authorities, cease and desist orders or suspension or disqualification of employees or officers as well as actions in tort brought by parties who are financially harmed by those failures or mishandlings. The growth of our business and expansion of our client base may place a significant strain on our management and operations. While many of our systems and processes are designed to accommodate additional growth without redesign or replacement, we may nevertheless need to make significant investments in additional hardware and software to accommodate growth or such enhancement, change or addition may not be timely enough. If we fail to implement or adapt proper procedures we may be subject to liability or loss of revenues that could result in substantial costs to us and distract our management from our business. Market conditions and decreases in short-term interest rates would negatively impact our revenues and profitability. The profitability of our margin lending activities depends to a great extent on the difference between interest income earned on margin loans and investments of client cash and the interest expense paid on client cash balances and borrowings. If short-term interest rates fall we generally expect to receive less interest income on client cash deposits held in reserve and on margin debit balances and potentially a smaller gross interest spread causing our net interest income to decline. Short-term interest rates are highly sensitive to factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Our level of business activity depends upon a healthy and active market for the purchase and sale of securities. Bear markets, flat market trends, or market interruptions generally decrease the overall market, trading volumes and investor activity. We find that during these times both gross commissions, total trades, and overall volume can increase or decrease substantially. We have off-balance sheet risk associated with our broker-dealers and our margin lending business which subjects us to credit risks. We provide margin loans to investors, therefore, we are subject to risks inherent in extending credit. Our credit risks include the risk that margin requirements may be inadequate and the value of the collateral we hold could fall below the amount of an investor's indebtedness, especially when the market is rapidly declining. Agreements with margin account investors permit us to liquidate their securities with or without prior notice in the event that the amount of margin collateral becomes insufficient or might be considered questionable. Despite those agreements, we may be unable to liquidate the clients' securities. In connection with securities activities, we also execute client transactions involving the sale of securities not yet purchased, known as "short sales," all of which are transacted on a margin basis subject to federal, self-regulatory organization and individual exchange regulations and its clearing broker's internal policies. In all cases, such transactions may expose us to significant off-balance sheet credit risk in the event client collateral is not sufficient to fully cover losses that clients may incur. We provide guarantees to clearing organization and exchanges under standard membership agreements, which require members to guarantee the performance of other members. Under the agreements, if another member becomes unable to satisfy its obligations to the clearing organization and exchanges other members would be required to meet shortfalls. Our liability under these arrangements is not quantifiable and may exceed the cash and securities we have posted as collateral. Difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. The stress experienced by global capital markets that began in the second half of 2007 continued and substantially increased during the third and fourth quarter of 2008. Recently, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the U.S. have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and a global recession. Domestic and international equity markets have been experiencing heightened volatility and turmoil. These events and the continuing market upheavals may have an adverse effect on our business. In the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the global credit crisis, we could incur significant losses. 9 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that actions taken by the U.S. government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will achieve the intended effect. In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, numerous regulatory and governmental actions have been proposed. The Federal Reserve has taken action through reduced federal funds rates and the expansion of acceptable collateral for its loans to provide additional liquidity. In October 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, referred to in this annual report as the "EESA," was signed into law. The EESA provides the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury with the authority to establish a Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets. Additionally, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, referred to in this annual report as the "ARRA," was signed into law in February 2009. The ARRA is intended to provide a stimulus to the U.S. economy and includes federal tax cuts, expansion of unemployment benefits and other social welfare provisions, and domestic spending in education, health care and infrastructure, including marine infrastructure and dredging. There can be no assurance as to what impact such actions will have on our business or the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility, or that the EESA, the ARRA, or any monetary or fiscal actions of the U.S. Federal Reserve Board will have a stabilizing effect on the economy or a beneficial impact on economic growth. It is not possible to predict whether or when such actions may occur or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations or financial condition or the trading price of our common stock. The current weakness in the economic environment and other factors could lead to our goodwill and other intangible assets becoming impaired. Under current accounting guidelines, we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of our goodwill and other intangible assets have been impaired. Any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets as a result of such analysis would result in a non-cash charge against earnings, which charge could materially adversely affect our reported net income and our stock price. Due to the continuing economic uncertainty and market and credit crisis, we considered whether there were any indicators that our goodwill was impaired. We concluded that no indicators of impairment were present. A significant and sustained decline in the our future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the economic environment, slower growth rates or if our stock price falls below our net book value per share for a sustained period could result in the need to perform additional impairment analysis in future periods. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of goodwill or other intangible assets is necessary, then we would be required to record a non-cash charge against earnings, which, in turn, could have a material adverse affect on our reported net income and the book value of our stockholders' equity. If we lose the services of any of our key personnel our business may be unable to attract qualified replacements. Our success is heavily dependent on the performance of our executive officers and managers. Our growth and future success will depend, in large part, on the continued contributions of these key individuals as well as our ability to motivate and retain our personnel. Loss of any of our key personnel could result in severe hardship in our ability to execute our business plan. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to recruit and retain highly skilled management, sales and marketing, and technical personnel. Competition in recruiting personnel in the industry is intense. Operational changes may disrupt our operations. We continually evaluate our products, services and corporate strategy. We have in the past undertaken, and will in the future undertake, operational changes and/or product, technology and marketing strategy modifications. These operational changes increase the risk that objectives will not be met due to the allocation of valuable limited resources to implement changes. Further, due to the uncertain nature of any of these undertakings, these efforts may not be successful and we may not realize any benefit from these efforts. Legal and regulatory compliance continues to become more complex and costly. We are subject to a high degree of legal and regulatory requirements. The cost and complexity of meeting these requirements continues to increase. We have implemented and continue to implement formal compliance procedures to respond to regulatory requirements and changes. Our future operating results will depend on our ability: • to improve our systems for operations, financial controls, communication and information management; and • to refine our compliance procedures and enhance our compliance oversight, and to recruit, train, manage and retain our employees. Increases in costs associated with these efforts would cause our operating margins to decline from current levels. 10 Table of Contents We can become party to litigation and we may be unsuccessful in our defense of claims made against us. The Company can become a defendant in claims, arbitrations and suits at any time in the ordinary course of business. These claims can require the Company to pay material amounts of money for legal fees, costs, settlements, awards and judgments. These claims may include customer claims related to the purchase or sale of investment securities, regulatory actions or other legal issues. The outcome of litigation in court or before arbitration panels is extremely difficult to predict, especially when claimants seek substantial or unspecified damages. A substantial judgment, settlement, fine or penalty could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. We rely on intellectual property and proprietary rights to protect the products that we have developed as well as those of third-party vendors. The success of our business depends, in part, on obtaining intellectual property protection for our products, defending our intellectual property once obtained, preserving our trade secrets and the protection of our third party vendors. To protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of trademark laws, copyright laws, patent laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our affiliates, clients, strategic investors and third-party vendors. The protective steps we have taken may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. Even if we are able to defend our intellectual property, there may be little recognition of our brand and trademark in the marketplace. We may also be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Failure to protect our intellectual property adequately could harm our brand and affect our ability to compete effectively. Further, defending our intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We currently do not own any patents and we cannot verify with certainty the intellectual property owned by our third-party vendors. In addition, we cannot assure you that we are or will be aware of all patents containing claims that may pose risk of infringement by our products and services. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management resources and attention. Successful challenges against us could require us to modify or change or discontinue use of the portions of our products or services that are found to be infringing or violating the rights of others or to obtain licenses from third parties. Such claims could result in awards of substantial damages, which could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to: • cease licensing, incorporating or using any of our products or those of our third-party vendors that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, which would adversely affect our financial operating results; • obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; or • redesign our products, which would be costly and time-consuming, and divert the attention of limited technical and management resources. Introduction of new operating systems or the inability to retain third-party technologies may disrupt our operations and cause significant fluctuations in our financial results. Our financial technology products are designed to run on Microsoft operating systems and integrate with security products from other industry leading vendors. Although we believe that the target operating systems and products are and will be widely offered and utilized by businesses in the corporate market, no assurances can be given that this will continue and in the future we might be forced to migrate to other computing technologies that we do not currently support. Moreover, if our products and technology are not compatible with new developments from these companies, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected as a result of the expenses we incur to make our products compatible. We may be unsuccessful in utilizing new marketing and/or new distribution channels which may decrease our ability to implement our business plan. We have pursued, and may continue to invest in both new and proven marketing channels that historically have been cost effective for advertising and marketing which include strategic alliances with complementary businesses and Internet marketing. In an effort to diversify our sources of revenue and expand our client bases, new or existing marketing channels may increase costs and delay or divert management's attention. In addition, we rely upon the Internet significantly for marketing and the distribution of our products and services. This form of marketing may not be successful in the future. The length of the product development and sales cycles are difficult to predict, and our offering may not reach the market at opportune times. 11 Table of Contents The implementation of financial services and software products are inherently difficult to plan for when interfacing with many vendors for input and output of data. Therefore, we may incur delays in the introduction of new products or features. Also, any new feature that users do not favorably receive could damage our reputation and brand name. We cannot be certain that we will get enough revenues from any expanded products or services to offset related costs. The length of our product development and sales cycles has generally been greater than we originally expected. These delays could have a material adverse effect on the amount and timing of future revenues. Systems failures and delays could harm our business. We receive and process trade orders through a variety of electronic channels. Our online trading services and our products are heavily dependent on the integrity of the systems supporting them. Our systems and operations, including our Web servers and those of our third party service providers, are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, sabotage, encryption failures, break-ins, intentional acts of vandalism, earthquakes, terrorist attacks, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks or other attempts to harm our systems and operations, and similar events. Our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all potential eventualities. In addition, extraordinary trading volumes could cause our computer systems to operate at an unacceptably low speed or even fail. While we have invested significant amounts to upgrade the reliability and scalability of our systems, there can be no assurance that our systems will be sufficient to handle such extraordinary trading volumes. Systems failures or delays may occur in the future and could cause, among other things, unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients, slower system response time resulting in transactions not being processed as quickly as our clients desire, decreased levels of customer service and customer satisfaction and harm to our reputation. If any of these events were to occur, we could suffer: • a loss of clients or a reduction in the growth of our customer base; • increased operating expenses; • financial losses; and • litigation or other customer claims and regulatory sanctions or additional regulatory burdens. Our business also depends on the continued reliability of the Internet infrastructure. This includes maintenance of a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity and security for providing reliable Internet services. Internet infrastructure may be unable to support the demands placed on it if the number of Internet users continues to increase or if existing or future Internet users access the Internet more often or increase their bandwidth requirements. In addition, viruses, worms and similar programs may harm the performance of the Internet. We have in the past experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of Internet failure. The need for additional cash resources in the future may not be available. While we have limited but adequate cash resources now, we may have additional cash and liquidity needs in the future that are difficult to meet. Additional financing sources may include debt and/or equity financing, though there is no guarantee that adequate amounts of debt or equity financing will be available if needed on acceptable terms. Any future issuance of stock may have a negative impact on the stock price. Failure to comply with net capital requirements could adversely affect our business. The SEC, FINRA, CFTC, NFA and other self-regulatory agencies or organizations, known as an "SRO," have stringent rules with respect to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital by securities broker-dealers. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are required to comply with these net capital requirements. If we fail to maintain the required net capital, the SEC or CFTC could fine us or even suspend or revoke our registration, or the applicable SRO could sanction us, including by limiting our growth or expelling us from membership. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our business. If such net capital rules are changed or expanded, or if there is an unusually large charge against net capital, trading operations that require the use of capital could be restricted. A large operating loss or charge against net capital could adversely affect our ability to expand or even maintain our then present levels of business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and projections. As a holding company we access the earnings of our broker-dealer subsidiary through receipt of capital. Net capital requirements may limit our ability to access those earnings. Certain of our directors and largest stockholders may have a significant influence on matters submitted to stockholders for approval. We have a few large shareholders who each hold more than 5% of our outstanding shares. Together our directors and holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock beneficially own greater than 60% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, may have significant influence over the election of our directors, the appointment of new management and the potential outcome of all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including entering into mergers, the sale of substantially all of our assets and other extraordinary items. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders. 12 Table of Contents Procedures and requirements of the Patriot Act may expose us to significant costs or penalties. As participants in the financial services industry, our subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations, including the U.S. Patriot Act of 2001, that require that they know their clients and monitor transactions for suspicious financial activities. The cost of complying with the Patriot Act and related laws and regulations is significant. We face the risk that our policies, procedures, technology and personnel directed toward complying with the U.S. Patriot Act are insufficient and that we could be subject to significant criminal and civil penalties due to noncompliance. Such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. As an online broker with clients worldwide, we may face particular difficulties in identifying our clients and monitoring their activities. Our controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, believes that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must consider the benefits of controls relative to their costs. Inherent limitations within a control system include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by an unauthorized override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be prevented or detected. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting may have an adverse effect on our stock price. We have in the past, and may in the future, discover areas of our internal control over financial reporting which may require improvement. For example, in March 2008 we identified an error in the way we recorded non-cash stock compensation expense for certain warrant grants in 2006 which resulted in a restatement of our 2006 consolidated financial statements. Management determined that the error went undetected due to inadequate processes for assuring that the documentation of the awards properly reflected the non-economic terms of the grants and properly recording the awards as documented. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Our self-clearing operations for securities expose us to liability for errors in clearing functions. Clearing and execution services include the confirmation, receipt, settlement and delivery functions involved in securities transactions. Clearing brokers also assume direct responsibility for the possession and control of client securities and other assets and the clearance of client securities transactions. However, clearing brokers also must rely on third-party clearing organizations such as the DTCC and the OCC in settling client securities transactions. Self-clearing securities firms are subject to substantially more regulatory control and examination than introducing brokers that rely on others to perform clearing functions. Errors in performing clearing functions, including clerical and other errors related to the handling of funds and securities held by us on behalf of our clients, could lead to losses and liability in related lawsuits brought by clients and others. We are dependent on third-party clearing agents for executing and processing our futures transactions and any failures by them or difficulties in our third-party relationships could materially harm our business. We are dependent on certain third-party clearing agents for the orderly processing of futures and options on futures transactions. Our clearing agreements with our clearing firms may be terminated by any of the parties upon prior written notice. Breaches or termination of these agreements or the clearing firms' agreements with their third-party suppliers could harm our business. Termination of our relationship with our clearing firms could expose us to certain capital reserve requirements and other complex regulatory requirements imposed by federal and state securities laws, and additional system modifications, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, we have agreed to indemnify and hold harmless our clearing firms from certain liabilities or claims, including claims arising from the transactions of our clients, and may incur significant costs as a result. 13 Table of Contents Losses due to employee or customer fraud could have an adverse effect on our business. We are exposed to potential losses resulting from fraud and other misconduct by employees, clients or third-parties. Employees may bind us to transactions that exceed authorized limits or present unacceptable risks, hide from us unauthorized or unsuccessful activities or improperly use confidential information. Third-parties may engage in fraudulent activities, including fraudulent access to legitimate customer accounts, the use of a false identity to open an account, or the use of forged or counterfeit checks for payment. Such types of fraud may be difficult to prevent or detect, and we may not be able to recover the losses caused by such activities. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The future sale of shares of our common stock may negatively impact our stock price. Our stock is thinly traded. If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could fall. A reduction in ownership by one of our large shareholders could cause the market price of our common stock to fall. The price of our stock can fluctuate significantly. The market price of our stock has been volatile in the past and could decrease substantially. This could result for many reasons including variations in actual or anticipated annual or quarterly financial results, industry developments, or our reputation is harmed. There is increasing globalization with associated risks. The Company is receiving increasing inquiries from foreign nationals who wish to trade financial instruments in the United States. To the extent that the Company may become increasingly reliant on foreign investors for revenue, it faces risks that foreign economic downturns may disrupt that revenue and also that servicing foreign clients may involve costly additional regulatory requirements. The banks in which we hold funds may cease doing business in the normal course. We hold large sums of both the Company's and our customers' funds in various bank deposit accounts. Should those banking institutions become insolvent or are unable for any other reason such as governmental controls or extraordinary events in the financial system from returning our deposits the firm's operations and financial results could be materially impacted which could lead to a loss of customers, litigation and other adverse results to the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 