Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors should be considered carefully along with the other information contained or incorporated herein by reference. The risk and uncertainties described or incorporated by reference herein are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. 23 Table of Contents Our future financial and operational results are subject to a number of material risks and uncertainties that may affect our results of operations and financial condition, including: We expect that we will need to obtain additional capital in the near future in order to continue our operations. As of December 31, 2006, we only had $1.5 million of cash and cash equivalents, we had negative working capital of $3.6 million and we had a net loss of $11.9 million in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 which raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Excluding all obligations which could potentially be paid in stock we had working capital of $0.6 million at December 31, 2006. Although we completed a financing in January 2007, our net proceeds were only approximately $3.8 million. As a result, we expect that we will need to secure additional capital in order to continue our operations through fiscal 2007. In addition, we are required by the terms of our Secured Convertible Notes to repay more than $525,000 of principal and interest in June 2007 and we may have to pay a portion of the amount due in cash unless we are able to renegotiate payment terms with the holders of the 2007 Secured Convertible Notes. Failure to timely make payments due on our Secured Convertible Notes would constitute an event of default under those Secured Convertible Notes and could result in our inability to continue operations, as further described in “Risk Factors — We may be unable to comply with provisions of our Secured Convertible Notes and could suffer significant consequences in the event of non-compliance”. We have a history of operating losses, are continuing to lose money and may never be profitable. We have incurred losses since we began operations in 1987. These losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in research and development and from selling, general and administrative costs associated with our market development and selling efforts. Our accumulated deficit from inception through December 31, 2006 is $110 million. Our product sales and net losses for each of the past three fiscal years have been: 2004 2005 2006 Product Sales $ 7,275,000 $ 10,290,000 $ 12,085,000 Net Losses $ 11,123,000 $ 7,865,000 $ 11,935,000 We expect to continue to incur additional operating losses in the future as we continue to develop new products and seek to commercialize the results of our research and development efforts. Our ability to achieve long-term profitability is dependent upon our success in those development and commercialization efforts. We expect that we will need to continue to obtain additional capital in the future until we become profitable and, if we are unable to obtain such capital on acceptable terms or at the appropriate time, we may not be able to continue our operations. We do not currently generate revenues sufficient to operate our business at breakeven. In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, we had an operating loss of $8.0 million and a net loss of $11.9 million. From March 2003 through January 2007, we raised capital on six occasions through the sale of various securities including Convertible Debentures, common stock, Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (“Series A Preferred Stock”), Secured Convertible Notes and warrants to purchase common stock. We will, as we deem necessary or prudent, continue to seek to raise additional capital through various financing alternatives, including equity or debt financings, issuances of securities convertible into equity and corporate partnering arrangements. However, we may not be able to raise needed capital on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. The terms of our 2005 sale of Series A Preferred Stock and our 2006 and 2007 sales of Secured Convertible Notes greatly restrict our ability to raise capital. Under the terms of our Series A Preferred Stock, we are prohibited from issuing senior equity securities or having indebtedness in excess of $12.0 million except in limited forms. Under the terms of our Secured Convertible Notes, we are prohibited from issuing any debt securities or incurring any indebtedness except in limited forms with ceilings on the level of permitted borrowings. These provisions may severely limit our ability to attract new investors and raise additional financing on acceptable terms. In addition, in order to attract new investors and obtain additional 24 Table of Contents capital, we may be forced to provide rights and preferences to new investors that are not available to current stockholders or note holders and that may be adverse to existing investors. If we do not receive an adequate amount of additional financing in the future or we do not consummate future financings on a timely basis, we will likely be unable to fund future cash operating deficits or to meet our cash payment obligations required by the Secured Convertible Notes. We also will likely be required to curtail our expenses or to take other steps that could hurt our future performance, including but not limited to, the termination of major portions of our research and development activities, the premature sale of some or all of our assets or product lines on undesirable terms, merger with or acquisition by another company on unsatisfactory terms or the cessation of operations. We may be unable to comply with provisions of our Secured Convertible Notes and could suffer significant consequences in the event of non-compliance. In January 2006 and January 2007, we sold Secured Convertible Notes which contain substantial penalties in the event we fail to comply with their terms. Potential events of default under the Secured Convertible Notes include: • our failure to make payments as they become due; • our failure to remain listed on any of a Nasdaq Market, NYSE or AMEX; • our failure to have an effective registration statement available for resale of the shares (except in the case of the 2007 Secured Convertible Notes only if registration has been demanded); • failure to timely remove restrictive legends from any stock certificates delivered upon conversion; • our written notice or public announcement of the intention not to issue shares upon conversion; • our making an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or applying for or consenting to the appointment of a receiver or trustee for a substantial portion of our property or business or that of any subsidiary; • bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceedings being filed by or against us or any subsidiary; • a sale or disposition of substantially all our assets; • our default on our existing or future liabilities in excess of $250,000; and • a breach of any material term of any other transaction document we entered into with the purchasers of the Secured Convertible Notes. If we default on our obligations under the Secured Convertible Notes, we could be required to pay interest and liquidated damages; the Secured Convertible Notes could become immediately due and payable in cash at a premium of 120% of the outstanding principal amount plus accrued interest and damages; and the Note holders, through the collateral agent to whom we have granted a security interest in collateral relating to our NMP22 product line, could assume control of and sell the collateral. Any of these events could, if they occurred at a time when we had limited financial resources or had not yet developed a substantial revenue source other than our NMP22 product line, jeopardize our financial position and viability as a going concern. We may not be able to meet our payment obligations on our outstanding debt if we are required to make these payments in cash. The Secured Convertible Notes permit us to make interest and principal payments in shares of common stock instead of cash, but only if we are in compliance with all of the following: (i) issuance of the shares will not result in a holder of a Secured Convertible Note and its affiliates owning more than 9.99% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, unless waived by the affected holder; (ii) we have not issued any notice relating to the redemption of any warrant(s) during the 30 day period immediately prior to the payment date, (iii) our common stock is not selling at a price below $0.40 per share; (iv) for the 2006 Secured Convertible Notes only, one or more registration statements is effective and available for the resale of the shares required to be registered by the terms of a Registration Rights Agreement entered into in connection 25 Table of Contents with the January 2006 financing and (v) for the 2007 Secured Convertible Notes only, the number of shares to be issued to all holders of Secured Convertible Notes on a specific payment date shall not exceed 20% of the trading volume (as reported by Bloomberg) of our common stock for the period of 20 consecutive trading days ending on the trading day immediately prior to such payment date. If we are not able to make interest and principal payments on the Secured Convertible Notes in shares of stock, we will have to make these payments in cash. We may not have sufficient funds to make future payments on the Secured Convertible Notes as they become due. If we make payments on the Secured Convertible Notes in stock, however, it will result in significant dilution. We have incurred substantial indebtedness and may be unable to service our debt. As a result of our sales of Secured Convertible Notes, we substantially increased our indebtedness from approximately $800,000 at the end of 2005 to approximately $10.2 million as of January 31, 2007. In addition, our Secured Convertible Notes bear interest at the rate of 15% per annum, which is much higher than our previously outstanding 7.5% Convertible Debentures. This level of our indebtedness could, among other things: • make it difficult for us to make payments on this debt and other obligations; • make it difficult for us to obtain future financing; • require us to redirect significant amounts of cash flow from operations to servicing our indebtedness; • require us to take measures such as the reduction in scale of our operations that might hurt our future performance in order to satisfy our debt obligations; and • make us more vulnerable to bankruptcy. We have granted a security interest in our NMP22 product line to the purchasers of our Secured Convertible Notes which restricts our operation of this product line and could result in the loss of all assets related to this product line if we default on our obligations. In connection with the sale of our Secured Convertible Notes, we granted to SDS Capital Group SPC, Ltd., as collateral agent for the purchasers, a security interest in collateral including some cell lines, equipment, inventory and general intangibles related to our NMP22 product line, as well as proceeds from any sale of that product line pursuant to an amended and restated security agreement. The collateral excludes receivables for product sales. The security interest covers assets related to both our NMP22 Test Kit and our NMP22 BladderChek Test, the two products that represented approximately 92% of our product sales in 2006. We also entered into an amended and restated contingent license agreement with the collateral agent granting license rights in the field of bladder cancer detection to some of our patents related to the NMP22 products, sublicense rights to patents licensed to us and used in connection with the NMP22 product line, and license rights to trademarks used exclusively in connection with the NMP22 product line. The security agreement and license agreement impose restrictions on our sale or abandonment of the collateral and the patent rights. Further, these agreements afford the collateral agent the right to assume control of and sell the collateral and to use the license rights exclusively within the field of bladder cancer detection in the event of our default in our obligations under the Secured Convertible Notes. If we default on these obligations, and the collateral is sold, we will lose our primary source of revenue, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and would severely jeopardize our ability to continue operations. We may fail to meet the standards for continued listing of our shares of common stock on the American Stock Exchange or for listing of such shares on another national exchange. National stock trading exchanges, including AMEX where our common stock is currently listed, maintain standards and requirements for initial and continued listing of securities. In September 2006, we received notice from AMEX that we were not in compliance with certain continued listing standards relative to maintenance of stockholders’ equity and profitability. On October 23, 2006, we submitted to AMEX a plan of proposed actions we believe will bring us into compliance with applicable listing standards no later than 26 Table of Contents March 21, 2008. On December 8, 2006, we received notice that AMEX had accepted our plan. AMEX may initiate delisting procedures against us if we do not make progress consistent with our plan during the plan period or we are not in compliance with applicable listing standards at the end of the plan period. Delisting of shares of our common stock would violate terms of our various financing documents, could result in the declaration of an event of default on our Secured Convertible Notes and could cause holders to seek to recover potential damages from us. In addition, any suspension of trading or delisting of our shares could make it more difficult for us to raise needed additional capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. Further, suspension of trading or delisting of our shares could seriously impair the ability of our stockholders to sell shares of our stock. Market volatility and fluctuations in our stock price and trading volume may cause sudden decreases in the value of an investment in our common stock. The market price of our common stock has historically been, and we expect it to continue to be, volatile. The price of our common stock has ranged between $0.52 and $1.56 in the fifty-two week period ended December 31, 2006. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, particularly in the biotechnology sector, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Factors such as announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors or disappointing results by third parties, as well as market conditions in our industry, may significantly influence the market price of our common stock. For example, in the past, our stock price has been affected by announcements of clinical trial results and technical breakthroughs at other biotechnology companies. Our stock price has also been affected by our own public announcements regarding such things as quarterly sales and earnings, regulatory agency actions and corporate partnerships. Consequently, events both within and beyond our control may cause shares of our stock to lose their value rapidly. In addition, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by stockholders could adversely affect the market price of our shares. In the fourth quarter of 2006, our shares had an average daily trading volume of only approximately 118,000 shares. We may be required to file a resale registration statement during the summer of 2007 if we receive a valid demand for registration of shares that may be issued in connection with our 2007 Secured Convertible Notes and accompanying warrants. In connection with our January 2006 sale of Secured Convertible Notes and accompanying warrants, we filed two resale registration statements covering an aggregate of up to 25,797,839 shares of common stock for the benefit of the selling security holders. In connection with our March 2005 private placement of Series A Preferred Stock and accompanying warrants, we filed a resale registration statement covering up to 18,922,907 shares of common stock for the benefit of those investors. In connection with our March 2004 private placement of common stock and accompanying warrants, we filed a resale registration statement covering up to 7,121,031 shares for the benefit of those investors. We have also filed numerous resale registration statements in connection with previous sales of our equity securities. The actual or anticipated resale by such investors under these registration statements may depress the market price of our common stock. Bulk sales of shares of our common stock in a short period of time could also cause the market price for our shares to decline. Future equity or convertible debenture financings will result in additional dilution of the ownership interest of our existing investors and may have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. We expect that we will need to raise additional capital in the future to continue our operations. The primary source of the additional capital we raised from 2003 through early 2007 has been equity and convertible debentures, and we expect that equity-related instruments will continue to be a source of additional capital. Any future equity or convertible debenture financings will dilute the ownership interest of our existing investors and may have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. In addition, the terms of our Series A Preferred Stock and our Secured Convertible Notes provide for anti-dilution adjustments to their conversion prices and to the exercise prices of the accompanying warrants. Since their issuance on March 31, 2003, the warrants issued in connection with our Convertible Debentures have been repriced four times due to later sales deemed to be dilutive issuances under their terms. As a result, the March 2003 Warrants are now exercisable at an exercise price of $0.65 per share. 27 Table of Contents The Series A Preferred Stock and the accompanying warrants issued in connection with our March 2005 private placement also include anti-dilution protection provisions that were triggered by our sale of the 2006 Secured Convertible Notes. As a result, the conversion price of the Series A Preferred Stock was reduced from $0.88 per share to $0.70 per share and the exercise price of the March 2005 warrants was reduced from $1.47 per share to $1.34 per share. Both the Series A Preferred Stock and the March 2005 warrants have reached their contractual floor prices and further dilutive issuances will not result in any further reduction in conversion or exercise price for these securities. The sale of the 2007 Secured Convertible Notes triggered the anti-dilution protection provisions of the 2006 Secured Convertible Notes and accompanying warrants. As a result, both the conversion price of the Notes and the exercise price of the warrants were reduced from $0.65 and $0.67, respectively, to $0.63 per share. Future dilutive issuances could result in further reduction of the conversion price and exercise price of the 2006 Secured Convertible Notes and accompanying warrants. Our 2007 Secured Convertible Notes and accompanying warrants also contain anti-dilution protection provisions. Currently, the 2007 Secured Convertible Notes are convertible to common stock at a price of $0.63 per share and the accompanying warrants are exercisable at an exercise price of $0.63 per share. If we complete a future financing at a price of less than $0.63 per common share and we receive stockholder approval of proposals to allow issuances of our common stock at a price below $0.63 per share in satisfaction of our obligations under the 2007 Secured Convertible Notes or under the 2007 Warrants, the conversion price of our 2007 Secured Convertible Notes would be reduced to the new financing price per common share and the exercise price of the 2007 Warrants would be reduced to the new financing price per common share. We will not be able to significantly increase revenue or achieve profitability unless we increase the number of urologists using our NMP22 BladderChek Test, increase the per-urologist usage of our tests and/or successfully penetrate markets other than urologists. Currently the primary market for our NMP22 BladderChek Test consists of urologists who utilize our NMP22 BladderChek Test as an adjunct to their cystoscopic examination of patients for detecting initial cases of bladder cancer and monitoring diagnosed cases for recurrence. We have focused our sales and marketing on developing urologist users for either or both of these applications. In order to achieve increased revenue and profitability, we must increase sales to urologists, increase the usage per urologist and/or expand our market for our product to other physicians, such as gynecologists and primary care doctors. While we have had success in developing new urologist customers, we are still in the early stages of convincing a large number of them to use the test more widely than their current practice. In addition, we have had limited experience in implementing our strategy of expanding users to include gynecologists and other physicians in Germany. In the United States, we have not yet implemented a program to sell our NMP22 BladderChek Tests to physicians other than urologists and we may not be successful in penetrating these physician markets. We may not be able to significantly expand the categories of physicians who use our NMP22 BladderChek Test. Failure to achieve one or more of these objectives may significantly limit our long term revenue potential and may require substantially more investment to achieve profitability. Our inability to develop and commercialize additional products may limit our future prospects for our business, sales and profits. We believe that our ability to achieve profitability and to increase profits will be affected by our progress in producing additional revenue-generating products and technologies. We will receive royalties and other payments from Sysmex Corporation if and when it is successful in commercializing a cervical cancer testing system incorporating our NMP179 technology. Other than our NMP22 products, the allergy and other diagnostic products distributed by our German subsidiary and any product or test that may be offered by Sysmex Corporation incorporating our NMP179 technology, none of our technologies has been commercialized or is close enough to commercialization to be expected to generate revenue in the foreseeable future, if at all. If we are unable to successfully develop and commercialize other products or technologies, the future prospects for our business, sales and profits will be materially limited. In addition, if we are unable to develop 28 Table of Contents and commercialize additional products to diversify our revenue streams, great reliance will be placed on the success of our few existing products. If we are unable to manufacture or otherwise obtain the product volumes we need, we may be unable to achieve profitability. We currently manufacture our NMP22 Test Kits and package our NMP22 BladderChek Tests in our Newton, Massachusetts facility but we rely on third party vendors for certain components and processes for each of these products. Neither we nor our vendors have experience in manufacturing and assembling our NMP22 Test Kits and our BladderChek Tests in large volumes. As a result of the execution in November 2006 of a supply agreement with Inverness, we have arranged for Inverness to become an additional supplier for this product and to have multiple manufacturing locations for our NMP22 BladderChek Test. However, the ability of a new manufacturer to make this product satisfactorily is largely untested, as is the ability of a new manufacturer to produce large volumes of the product satisfactorily and on a timely basis. Further, the FDA must approve and qualify any new manufacturing locations of our NMP22 BladderChek Test before tests manufactured at the new location can be sold in the United States. We expect the sales volume of our NMP22 BladderChek Test will generally continue to grow, although we expect that quarter-over-quarter sales may not always increase and the rate of increase will likely not remain constant. We and/or our suppliers of our NMP22 BladderChek Test may encounter difficulties in scaling up production of products, including problems involving: • production yields; • quality control and assurance; • component supply; and • shortages of qualified personnel. These problems could make it difficult to produce sufficient quantities of product to satisfy customer needs and could result in customer dissatisfaction and decreased sales. In addition, if quality problems arise or if we need to undertake any significant manufacturing changes in order to achieve desired product volumes, we may be subject to review and/or other action by the governmental authorities that extensively regulate our manufacturing operations. If we lose the services of our suppliers or assemblers, we may be unable to meet commitments to our customers and our results of operations would suffer. We do not currently have alternative suppliers manufacturing our NMP22 BladderChek Tests or providing processes for our NMP22 Test Kits. Unless and until we secure additional suppliers for the NMP22 BladderChek Test and for processes for the NMP22 Test Kit and we demonstrate to the FDA that additional suppliers are equivalent to our current sources, we will be at risk of disruption of our product supply and may be unable to meet our sales commitments to customers. Although we have executed a supply agreement with Inverness for our NMP22 BladderChek Test and Inverness plans on having multiple manufacturing locations qualified and available for the manufacture of this product, to date the product is being manufactured at only one location and only one location has been qualified. We have not yet obtained approval from the FDA to use a different manufacturing location. We may face delays in securing FDA approval for use of an additional manufacturing location for the NMP22 BladderChek Test and we may not be able to secure the necessary approval at all. In that event, we would expect that our product would continue to be manufactured at the same location it has been for several years. While we attempt to maintain an adequate level of inventory to provide for contingencies such as key product components becoming unavailable or available in insufficient quantities, or an assembler failing to meet our requirements, our inventory levels may not be adequate to meet our commitments for an extended period of time. We may be forced to modify our products to enable another supplier or another manufacturing location to meet our requirements or we may be required to cease production and sale of our products altogether if our existing supply sources do not continue to provide sufficient quantities of product to us for whatever reason. Any product modification or cessation of production 29 Table of Contents and sale of our products would likely cause us to fail to satisfy our sales commitments to customers. Our failure or delay in meeting our sales commitments would likely cause sales to decrease, could result in significant expense to obtain alternative sources of supply or assembly with the necessary facilities and know-how, and would negatively affect our results of operations. We may need to stop selling our NMP22 BladderChek Tests if we cannot obtain necessary licenses or waivers to use lateral flow technology, and we may need to stop selling other products if third parties assert infringement claims against us. Our NMP22 BladderChek Test uses lateral flow technology consisting of an absorbent material that soaks up urine from a small reservoir at one end of the container housing the test strip and exposes the urine to chemicals and antibodies arranged on the surface of or imbedded in the test strip. After a reaction with our proprietary antibodies, a test result appears in a window located on the container housing the test strip. The manufacture, use, sale, or import of point-of-care products that include lateral flow technology requires us to obtain patent licenses in some jurisdictions. In August 2004, we entered into a license agreement, effective as of April 1, 2004, with one holder of certain patent rights, Abbott Laboratories. In November 2006, we entered into a supply agreement with Inverness, which holds substantial patent rights in the lateral flow area covering the professional field, which includes licensed health care providers and diagnostic laboratories. As part of this agreement, we have secured protection from claims by Inverness of infringement of its lateral flow patent rights for products we purchase from Inverness and resell in the professional field. Inverness has also agreed not to sue us, our resellers, distributors and end-customers for infringement of these lateral flow patent rights for products sold prior to November 3, 2006. If we are unable to obtain any additional patent licenses we need or similar protection from infringement claims in order to permit us to make, use, sell, or import our NMP22 BladderChek Test products in the United States or in other jurisdictions, we will have to stop selling our NMP22 BladderChek Tests in these jurisdictions until the expiration of the relevant patents or until we are able to develop an alternative non-infringing design solution that uses a different technology. We may not, however, be able to do this on a timely basis. In addition, we may also be subject to litigation that seeks a percentage of the revenues we have received from the sale of our NMP22 BladderChek Tests. We accrue estimated royalties on sales of our NMP22 BladderChek Test based on estimates of our obligations under existing licensing agreements and, when probable and estimable, based upon our appraisal of intellectual property claims to which we may be subject. If we are required to obtain additional licenses, the additional royalties due for those licenses may substantially reduce our gross profits and make it difficult or impossible for us to achieve profitability without new products or sources of revenue. We have not identified or been advised by third parties of any rights owned by others that would require us to secure licenses or waivers in order to manufacture, use, sell or import our NMP22 Test Kit product. We believe that our NMP22 Test Kit does not infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties. However, it may be difficult or impossible to identify, prior to receipt of notice from a third party, the patent position or other intellectual property rights of the third party, either in the United States or in foreign jurisdictions. If our NMP22 Test Kits are found to infringe other parties’ proprietary rights and we are unable to come to terms with such parties, we may be forced to modify the NMP22 Test Kits to make them non-infringing or to cease production of such products altogether. We compete with other methods of diagnosing cancer that already exist or may be successfully developed by others and our products may not prevail as the method of choice. Although we are not aware of any other company selling FDA-approved diagnostic or therapeutic products that incorporate nuclear matrix protein technology, competition in the development and marketing of cancer diagnostics and therapeutics, using a variety of technologies, is intense. Many pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, public and private universities and research organizations actively engage in the research and development of cancer diagnostic products. Many of these organizations have greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and human resources than we do. We expect that our current and future products will compete with existing FDA-approved tests, such UroVysion, which has been approved for both monitoring and diagnosing bladder cancer, and BTA Stat, which 30 Table of Contents is a point-of-care test that has been approved for use in monitoring bladder cancer patients; a test known as CEA, which is used primarily for monitoring colorectal and breast cancers; a test known as CA19.9, which is used primarily for monitoring colorectal and gastric cancers; a test known as PSA, which is used primarily for monitoring and screening prostate cancer; tests known as TRUQUANT® BR RIA, CA15.3 and CA27.29, which are used for monitoring breast cancer; and cervical specimen collection and analysis systems known as Imaging-Directed Cytologytm (Cytyc) and FocalPointtm slide profiler (TriPath Imaging). We are also aware of a number of companies that are developing cancer prognostic products based upon gene technology such as OncoType Dx. Our diagnostic products will also compete with more invasive or expensive procedures such as minimally invasive surgery, bone scans, magnetic resonance imaging and other in vivo imaging techniques. In addition, other companies may introduce competing diagnostic products based on alternative technologies that may adversely affect our competitive position. As a result, our products may become less competitive, obsolete or non-competitive. Low reimbursement rates could limit the per-unit revenues for our products and make it uneconomical to sell or distribute them, and limitations on the medical circumstances for which reimbursement is provided could reduce the potential market for our products. Our ability to sell our products depends in part on sufficient levels of payment from insurers and/or patients to enable us and our customers (both physicians and laboratories) to make an adequate profit. Third-party reimbursement policies, patient attitudes and abilities to pay for some or all of their healthcare, national healthcare cost control measures and physician or hospital preferences may each influence per-unit revenues for our products, usually in different ways in different countries. In most countries, third party reimbursement is the most important factor in achieving adequate per-unit pricing. Typically a necessary but not sufficient condition for obtaining third party reimbursement is an approval from that nation’s healthcare product regulatory authorities (such as the FDA in the United States). However, approvals by these authorities typically do not compel reimbursement by medical insurers, do not establish a reimbursement price and do not set forth the specific medical circumstances required to be satisfied in order to qualify for reimbursement. These are typically the province of the health care plans, whether private or public. Further, initial approval by a health care plan does not ensure continued reimbursement or stable prices. At a later date some insurers may decide not to continue reimbursement at all, not to continue reimbursement for certain medical applications and/or to decrease the reimbursement amount. Low reimbursement, no reimbursement or reimbursement that requires a patient to pay a significant portion of the cost could have a material adverse impact on our potential revenues. In the United States, broad scale reimbursement (including both national healthcare plans such as Medicare and most private insurers) has removed financial barriers for a substantial majority of all potential patients. This has created an opportunity for our physician customers to sell diagnostic services based on our products to most of their patients being evaluated for bladder cancer. If Medicare or these private insurers were to lower reimbursement rates, we believe our revenues would fall in part because physicians might have decreased interest in using our products. To date in Germany, where the national reimbursement bodies have not approved our product to be reimbursed, much of our sales revenue to physicians results from patients paying for our products themselves (“self-pay patients”). This lack of reimbursement may have limited the number of potential patients for our product. On the other hand, our product sales may have benefited because there have not been restrictions on the amounts that physicians are able to charge and physicians have not been restricted to order the test only in those medical circumstances contained in a reimbursement policy. However, if the national reimbursement bodies were to designate our products as reimbursable and did so at a low rate or for very limited clinical indications, it might decrease the prices we could charge, lower the volume of tests which may be ordered and, in general, decrease the interest of physicians in using our products. Reimbursement designation, however, could enable a far greater number of patients to be tested with our products, which would partially offset such per-unit revenue decline. 31 Table of Contents Reimbursement decisions can also be affected by national policies designed to control healthcare costs. These policies can limit prices paid for tests or limit the circumstances in which public and private insurers will reimburse the cost of tests. For example, Medicare has frozen reimbursement for clinical laboratory tests at 2003 levels and future changes could impose limitations on the prices our physician and laboratory customers can charge for the services based on our products. The future announcement or adoption of such proposals could reduce the profitability of our business. We expect that reimbursement approval will be obtained in some other countries where our products are sold, but do not believe reimbursement rates in all countries will be as favorable as in the United States. Broad scale reimbursement approval for our NMP22 BladderChek Test has not yet occurred in the principal countries of Asia (except in Japan) or in the principal countries of Europe (including Germany). Even with apparently attractive reimbursement levels, the attitudes of physicians, hospitals, laboratories, clinics and other customers may limit our per-product revenue because their profit expectations may influence their use of our products and their attitudes toward the price we charge them. To the extent that we are unable to price our products to achieve physician or laboratory profit expectations, sales of our products may suffer. We and our distributors are subject to extensive government regulation which adds to the cost and complexity of our business, may result in unexpected delays and difficulties, may impose severe penalties for violations and may prevent the ultimate sale or distribution of our products in certain countries. The FDA and many foreign governments stringently regulate the medical devices that we manufacture and that we and our distributors market to physicians or other customers. The FDA regulates the clinical testing, manufacture, labeling, distribution and promotion of medical devices in the United States and agencies in the European Union, Japan and other countries where we sell our products have their own regulations. If our products do not receive appropriate approvals from medical device regulatory authorities in any country, we can not sell our products in that country, either on our own or through distributors. Any products that we or our suppliers manufacture or distribute in accordance with FDA approvals are subject to stringent regulation by the FDA, including: • keeping records and reporting adverse experiences with the use of the devices we make and distribute; • registering our establishments and listing our devices with the FDA. Manufacturing establishments are subject to periodic inspections by the FDA and certain state agencies; and • requiring our products to be manufactured in accordance with complex regulations known as Quality System Regulations which include procedural and documentation requirements for our manufacturing and quality assurance activities. If we fail to comply with any FDA requirement, we may face a number of costly and/or time consuming enforcement actions, including: • fines; • injunctions; • civil penalties; • recall or seizure of products; • total or partial suspension of production; • delay or refusal of the agency to grant premarket clearance or premarket approval for other devices in our development pipeline; • withdrawal of marketing approvals; and • criminal prosecution. 32 Table of Contents The FDA and foreign governmental agencies have the authority to request the repair, replacement or refund of the cost of any device that we manufacture or distribute if it is non-compliant. Failure to comply with medical device and quality regulations in countries outside the United States where we sell our products can result in fines, penalties, seizure or return of products and the inability to sell the product in those countries either on our own or through our distributors. Labeling and promotional activities are subject to scrutiny in the United States by the FDA and, in certain instances, by the Federal Trade Commission, and by regulatory bodies in most countries outside the United States where we sell products. For example, our NMP22 Test Kit has received FDA approval and may be promoted by us only as an aid in the management of patients with bladder cancer or as a diagnostic aid for use for previously undiagnosed individuals who have symptoms of or are at risk for bladder cancer. The FDA actively enforces regulations prohibiting the promotion of devices for unapproved uses and the promotion of devices for which premarket approval or clearance has not been obtained. In order to permit our distributor, Inverness, to sell our NMP22 BladderChek Test in the non-prescription, OTC market in the U.S., we will have to conduct clinical trials, make an additional submission to the FDA and secure FDA approval. There is no guarantee that clinical trials we conduct will support a non-prescription, OTC use of the NMP22 BladderChek Test, that we will be able to secure FDA approval for sale in that market or that Inverness will ever commence sale of our NMP22 BladderChek Test in that market. In addition to federal regulations regarding manufacture and promotion of medical devices, we are also subject to a number of state laws and regulations that may hinder our ability to market our products in those states or localities. Manufacturers in general are also subject to numerous federal, state and local laws relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control, and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with these laws and regulations in the future, which could increase future losses or reduce future profitability. We may encounter insurmountable obstacles or incur substantially greater costs and delays than anticipated in the development process. From time to time, we have experienced setbacks and delays in our research and development efforts and may encounter further obstacles in the course of the development of additional technologies, products and services. We may not be able to overcome these obstacles or may have to expend significant additional funds and time. For example, in 1997 we elected to terminate development of a blood-based test for PC1, a candidate marker for prostate cancer, due to unexpected difficulties. Despite encouraging initial results from an earlier low throughput research testing method, we were unable to develop a kit for use in testing prostate cancer patients even when we employed 1997 state-of-the-art detection methods. We have subsequently announced that a different set of proteins (NMP48), discovered using a different discovery method, are the primary candidates in our prostate cancer program. More recently, we and others have observed that the testing results of a low throughput research mass spectrometry instrument are not readily reproducible or transferable to high throughput mass spectrometry instruments. As a result, the preliminary positive results our scientists have achieved using monoclonal antibody based immunoassays and reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction have caused us to direct our product development resources to these methods for the past two years. If we fail to successfully develop clinical tests based upon any of these methods, we may be forced to curtail or abandon these programs and others that share the same characteristics or approach. In 2006, we reported that the sensitivity and specificity of the breast cancer tests we have had in development were not sufficient to begin clinical trials for submission to the FDA and that we were proceeding with testing of additional antibody pairs, including some focused on different targets. Technical obstacles and challenges we encounter in our research and development process may result in delays in or abandonment of product commercialization, may substantially increase the costs of development, and may negatively affect our results of operations. 33 Table of Contents We often face challenges in replicating the research results we obtain in our laboratories in clinical trials and, as a result, we may have difficulty commercializing our products. Investors should not expect products that we commercialize to perform as well as preliminary discovery research results in the small numbers of samples reported by us. In large-scale clinical trials, such as those required by the FDA, we expect to encounter greater variability and risks including but not limited to: • obtaining acceptable specimens from patients and healthy individuals; • testing a much larger population of individuals than we tested in early discovery which will be likely to include more biologic variability; • preparation methods for the specimens using lower cost, high throughput procedures which might result in performance different from those used in early discovery; and • inability to develop economic and reproducible test methods for the substance to be measured. We believe that testing our final products in a clinical setting will result in product performance that may not be as accurate as the results reported during the discovery phase. Therefore, the best comparative data to be used in evaluating our product development programs are the results of physician trials of commercial products such as those reported since 1996 for our NMP22 products. Successful technical development of our products does not guarantee successful commercialization. We may successfully complete technical development for one or all of our product development programs, but still fail to develop a commercially successful product for a number of reasons, including the following: • failure to obtain the required regulatory approvals for their use; • prohibitive production costs; • clinical trial results might differ from discovery phase data; and • variation of perceived clinical value of products from physician to physician. Our success in the market for the diagnostic products we develop will also depend greatly on our ability to educate physicians, patients, insurers and our distributors on the medical benefits of our new products. Even if we successfully educate the market, competing products may prevent us from gaining wide market acceptance of our products. We have no demonstrated success in developing cellular analysis systems and any future success in this area will be highly dependent upon Sysmex Corporation. We believe the future success of our business will also depend, in part, upon Sysmex Corporation developing a satisfactory cellular analysis system incorporating our NMP179 technology to measure clinically useful cervical disease proteins. Even if Sysmex completes its product development efforts to its satisfaction, it is expected to face significant obstacles (including but not limited to those set forth in “Risk Factors — Successful technical development of our products does not guarantee successful commercialization”) in developing a system that will be approved by the FDA (or similar regulatory authorities in other countries) and selling such systems to cervical cancer testing laboratories at a satisfactory price. Our success in cervical disease cellular analysis systems is almost entirely dependent on the success of Sysmex in utilizing our technology and on its ability to educate physicians, patients, insurers and its distributors about the medical utility of the new products. Even if Sysmex successfully educates the market, competing products may prevent Sysmex from gaining wide market acceptance of its products. 34 Table of Contents If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, we could lose our ability to compete in the marketplace. Protection of our intellectual property is necessary for the success of our products and our business. Patent protection can be limited and not all intellectual property is or can be protected by patent. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights in our current and planned products. We have little protection when we must rely on trade secrets and nondisclosure agreements. Our competitors may independently develop technologies and products that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology and products. If our competitors develop superior or competing technology and are able to produce products similar to or better than ours, our revenues could decrease. While we have obtained patents where advisable, patent law relating to the scope of certain claims in the biotechnology field is still evolving. In some instances we have taken an aggressive position in seeking patent protection for our inventions and in those cases the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. In addition, the laws of certain countries in which our products are, or may be, licensed or sold do not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If we are unable to recruit and retain key management, scientific and sales personnel, our business would be negatively affected. For our business to be successful, we need to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, sales and management personnel. As of March 1, 2007, we employed fewer than 80 employees. The loss of key members of our scientific staff or a number of our sales staff, within a short period of time and the failure to recruit the necessary additional or replacement personnel when needed with specific qualifications and on acceptable terms might impede our research and development efforts and/or our direct-to-the-doctor marketing strategy. Our success is also greatly dependent on the efforts and abilities of our management team. The simultaneous loss of multiple members of senior management may delay achievement of our business objectives due to the time that would be needed for their replacements to be recruited and become familiar with our business. We face intense competition for qualified personnel from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. We may be unable to establish distributor relationships with high revenue potential in jurisdictions where we do not have a direct sales force. We rely primarily on distributors to market our NMP22 BladderChek Tests in territories other than the United States and Germany. To date, our distribution arrangements in those other territories have not produced sales levels or sales growth consistent with the progress achieved by our own direct-to-the-doctor sales forces operating in the United States and Germany. We have limited experience in selecting and managing distributors and we do not know whether our existing distributors or others we may engage in the future will achieve substantial sales levels of our products in the near term or at all. Failure to establish successful product distribution could severely limit the growth potential for our products, and our revenue and results of operation could be negatively affected. The operations of our German subsidiary involve currency exchange rate variability and other risks that could negatively affect our results of operations. Historically, our German subsidiary has accounted for a large portion of our product sales. Accounts of our German subsidiary are maintained in euros and are translated into U.S. dollars. To the extent that foreign currency exchange rates fluctuate, we may be exposed to significant financial variability, both favorable and unfavorable. In addition, although we have integrated the operations of our German subsidiary since we acquired it in June 2000, we still must coordinate geographically separate organizations, manage personnel with disparate business backgrounds and conduct business in a different regulatory and corporate culture. It remains to be 35 Table of Contents seen whether the use of this subsidiary to spearhead the marketing effort of our products in Europe outside of Germany will be successful in the long term. If we are sued for product-related liabilities, the cost could be prohibitive to us. The testing, marketing and sale of human healthcare products entail an inherent exposure to product liability claims. Third parties may successfully assert product liability claims against us. Although we currently have insurance covering claims against our products, we may not be able to maintain this insurance at acceptable cost in the future, if at all. In addition, our insurance may not be sufficient to cover particularly large claims. Significant product liability claims could result in large and unexpected expenses as well as a costly distraction of management resources and potential negative publicity and reduced demand for our products. If the products we distribute which are made by other companies become unavailable or do not meet quality standards, we may lose revenues and may face liability claims. If the products we distribute, but do not manufacture, become unavailable for any reason or fail to meet our quality standards, we would need to seek alternative sources of supply. If we are unable to find alternative sources of an equivalent product we may be required to cease distribution of those products affected by this supply issue, which could cause revenues to decrease or be lost permanently. Furthermore, if products which we distribute, but do not manufacture, should be found defective, we could be sued for product liability or other claims. Our activities involve the use of hazardous materials and we may be held liable for any accidental injury from these hazardous materials. Our research and development and assembly activities involve the use of hazardous materials, including carcinogenic compounds. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of our hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by federal, state and local laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident or exposure, we could be held liable for resulting damages, and significant and unexpected costs, as well as costs related to increased insurance premiums or even the inability to obtain adequate insurance at a reasonable price. We might also face costs associated with loss of operations during any required clean-up. Any costs or liabilities resulting from our use of hazardous materials may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 