ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our results of operations and financial condition can be adversely affected by numerous risks and uncertainties. The most important of these risks and uncertainties are detailed below. You should carefully consider the risk factors described below and other risks which may be disclosed from time to time in the Company’s filings with the SEC before investing in the Company’s securities. Should any of these risks actually materialize, our business, financial condition, and future prospects could be negatively impacted. Consumer sensitivity to economic conditions. The retail apparel business is dependent upon the level of consumer spending, and as a fashion retailer, we rely on the expenditure of discretionary income for most, if not all, of our sales. The recent volatility in the financial markets, worsening unemployment rates, rising personal bankruptcies, and lack of access to credit have all contributed to erosion in consumer spending and consumer confidence in the past year. More specifically, a protracted housing downturn in certain SunBelt states (Florida, California, Nevada and Arizona) where we have a large concentration of stores has had a chilling effect on consumer spending as tourism and traffic there have declined. Continued deterioration in the level of consumer spending could have a material adverse affect our results of operations. 5 Table of Contents Our advertising, marketing and promotional strategies may be ineffective and inefficient. Our profitability and results of operations may be materially affected by the effectiveness and efficiency of our marketing expenditures and our ability to select the right markets and media in which to advertise. In particular, we may not be successful in our efforts to create greater awareness of our stores and our promotions, identify the most effective and efficient level of spending in each market and specific media vehicle and determine the appropriate creative message and media mix for our advertising, marketing and promotional expenditures. While we utilize several methods of distribution, daily newspapers are an important delivery vehicle for both run of press advertising and circular insertions. The newspaper business is under increasing economic pressure, and the demise of certain newspapers would jeopardize an important distribution method for our advertising. Our planned marketing expenditures may not result in increased revenues. In addition, if we are not able to manage our marketing expenditures on a cost-effective basis, our profitability and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Intense competition in the retail industry. We face intense competition for customers from department stores, specialty stores and regional and national off-price retail chains. Many of these competitors are larger and have significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we do. In addition, many department stores have become more promotional and have reduced their price points, and certain department stores and certain of our vendors have opened outlet stores which offer merchandise at prices that are competitive with ours. Many of our competitors also make sales through the Internet, and although we do maintain an Internet site, we do not sell merchandise online. Accordingly, we may face periods of intense competition in the future which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. Unanticipated changes in fashion trends and changing consumer preferences. Our success depends in part upon our ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends in a timely manner. Although we attempt to stay abreast of the fashion tastes of our customers and provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand, fashion trends can change rapidly and we cannot assure that we will accurately anticipate shifts in fashion trends and adjust our merchandise mix to appeal to changing consumer tastes in a timely manner. If we misjudge the market for our products or are unsuccessful in responding to changes in fashion trends or in market demand, we could experience insufficient or excess inventory levels which could result in higher markdowns, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to raise additional capital, if needed, or to raise capital on favorable terms. Recently, the general economic and capital market conditions in the United States and other parts of the world have deteriorated significantly and have adversely affected access to and cost of capital. If our existing cash, cash generated from operations and funds available under our revolving credit agreement were insufficient to fund our future operations, including capital expenditures, or repay debt when it becomes due, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing. If unfavorable capital or credit market conditions exist if and when we were to seek additional financing, we may not be able to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms or on a timely basis, if at all. Failure to obtain capital on acceptable terms when required could have a material adverse effect on our business including an inability to fund new growth and other capital expenditures. We may be unable to negotiate advantageous lease terms with current landlords. Our continued growth and success depends in part on our ability to renew leases for successful stores. There is no assurance that we will be able to re-negotiate leases at similar or favorable terms at the end of the lease, and we could be forced to move or exit a market if another favorable arrangement cannot be made. Conversely, as part of our strategy we close certain under-performing stores, generally based on considerations of store profitability, competition, strategic factors and other considerations. Such closures subject us to costs including the write-down of leasehold improvements, equipment, furniture and fixtures. In addition, we could remain liable for future lease obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. Because of our focus on keeping our inventory at the forefront of fashion trends, extreme and/or unseasonable weather conditions could force us to prematurely mark down inventory. Our business is susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could render a portion of our inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions. Prolonged unseasonable weather conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, hurricanes or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period might make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A lack of adequate sources of merchandise at acceptable prices. Our business is dependent to a significant degree upon our ability to purchase fashion and brand name merchandise, and to do so at acceptable wholesale prices. We must continuously seek out buying opportunities from our existing suppliers and from new sources. We compete for these opportunities with other retailers, 6 Table of Contents discount and deep-discount chains, mass merchandisers and various privately-held companies and individuals. With the current downturn in retail sales and the resulting pressure on manufacturers, our ability to purchase merchandise could become limited by the consolidation or demise of merchandise vendors. Our ability to obtain merchandise may also depend on certain manufacturers’ ability to obtain vendor financing through factoring companies, and to the extent they are unable to secure sufficient credit from those factors, we may not be able to purchase merchandise from them. Although we do not depend on any single vendor or group of vendors and believe we can successfully compete in seeking out new vendors, the loss of certain key vendors could make it difficult for us to acquire sufficient quantities and an appropriate mix of merchandise, and to do so at acceptable prices which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are dependent on certain key personnel. Our continued success will depend to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our senior executives, and the loss of the services of one or more of these executives could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. These executives are David H. Stovall, Jr., president and chief executive officer; D. Hunt Hawkins, executive vice president and chief administrative officer; William A. Moll, executive vice president and chief merchandising officer; James G. Delfs, senior vice president, finance and chief financial officer; Michael D. Ray, senior vice president, director of stores; as well as Jay Stein, chairman of the board of directors, John H. Pennell, general merchandising manager, and Roseann McLean, senior vice president of planning and allocation. Our continued success is also dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified employees to meet our needs, especially to support planned growth. Seasonality, and especially the importance of the holiday selling season. Our business is affected by the seasonal pattern common to most retailers. Historically, our highest net sales occur during the fourth quarter, which includes the holiday selling season. Our operating results depend significantly upon net sales generated during the fourth quarter, and any factor that negatively impacts the holiday selling season could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the entire year. If the third parties that we rely on for a majority of the distribution aspects of our business experience labor strikes or do not adequately perform our distribution functions, our business would be disrupted. The efficient operation of our stores is dependent on our ability to receive merchandise in our stores throughout the United States in a timely manner. We depend on vendors to sort and pack substantially all of our merchandise and on third parties to deliver this merchandise to our stores. These vendors and logistics providers may experience labor strikes or other disruptions in the future, the resolution of which will be out of our control, and could result in a material disruption in our business. Any failure by these third parties to respond adequately to our distribution needs, including labor strikes or other disruptions in the business, would disrupt our operations and negatively impact our profitability. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer or employee information could severely damage our reputation, expose us to risks of litigation and liability, disrupt our operations and harm our business. As part of our normal course of business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential customer and employee information. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of our third party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other similar events. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, whether by us or our service providers, could severely damage our reputation, expose us to risks of litigation and liability, disrupt our operations and harm our business. Threats of terrorism or violence. Acts of terrorism or war may disrupt commerce and undermine consumer confidence, which could negatively impact our sales revenue by causing consumer spending to decline. Also, an act of terrorism or war, or the threat thereof, could negatively impact our business by interfering with our ability to obtain merchandise from vendors. Inability to obtain merchandise from our vendors or substitute suppliers at similar costs in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Fluctuations in comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations could cause volatility in the price of our common stock. Our comparable store sales and quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and are expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. Comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations are affected by a variety of factors, including: • fashion trends • actions of competitors • calendar shifts of holiday or seasonal periods • the effectiveness of our inventory management • changes in our merchandise mix • the timing of promotional events • storms and other weather conditions • changes in general economic conditions and consumer spending patterns 7 Table of Contents Our failure to adequately protect our trademark Stein Mart®, and, to a lesser extent, the various other marks we use in conjunction with our private label merchandise program, could have a negative impact on our brand image. We believe that our trademark Stein Mart® and, to a lesser extent, the various other marks that we use in connection with our private label merchandise program, are important to us because we feel that these brands have characteristics unique to our business. We have obtained a federal registration of the Stein Mart® trademark and various other trademarks in the United States. We cannot assure you that the registrations that we have obtained will prevent the imitation of our business or infringement of our intellectual property rights by others. If we are unable to protect our brand or our brand becomes associated with lesser characteristics or otherwise carries a negative connotation, our brand image, and consequently the results of our operations, could be materially adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 