Risk Factors Risks Related To Our Business We operate in a highly competitive market. We face competition from large, well established medical device manufacturers with significant resources and from low-cost producers, predominantly in Asia, and we may not be able to compete effectively. The market for blood glucose monitoring devices is intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions. We compete directly with Bayer Corp., LifeScan Inc., a division of Johnson & Johnson, the MediSense Inc. and TheraSense Inc. subsidiaries of Abbott Laboratories, and Roche Ltd. These competitors’ products, like ours, use a meter and disposable test strips to test blood obtained by pricking the finger or the forearm. Collectively, these companies currently account for approximately 95% of the blood glucose monitoring market, according to Frost & Sullivan. The companies marketing these competing devices are publicly traded companies or divisions of publicly traded companies, and have access to significantly greater resources than we do, which could prevent us from competing effectively against them. Within the last few years there have been a series of low-cost blood glucose monitoring systems introduced into the United States market. Most of these systems are manufactured by companies based in Asia that have United States distribution partners. These manufacturers offer low-cost alternatives that are being marketed primarily within the mail service, long-term care and durable medical equipment distribution channels. If these companies succeed in penetrating our target market they could threaten our position in the market. Technological breakthroughs in diabetes monitoring, treatment or prevention could render our products obsolete. The diabetes treatment market is subject to rapid technological change and product innovation. Our products are based on our proprietary technology, but a number of companies and medical researchers are pursuing new delivery devices, delivery technologies, sensing technologies, procedures, drugs, and other therapeutics for the monitoring, treatment and prevention of diabetes. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, approval of a commercially viable continuous glucose monitor or sensor, especially by one of our competitors, that provides accurate real-time data without the need to perform confirmatory finger-stick measurements could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and future profitability. To date, the FDA has approved, for limited applications, eight continuous monitors or sensors, one by Abbot Laboratories, Inc., two by DexCom, Inc., four by Medtronic Corp., and one by Cygnus Corp., which ceased operations and sold its remaining assets to Animas Corp., a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson. None of these products are FDA approved for use as a substitute for finger-stick blood glucose testing. Diabetic patients using these continuous monitoring systems are still required to perform finger-stick measurements of glucose levels to calibrate or confirm readings. DexCom is developing a long-term system, which will provide continuous real-time blood glucose measurements for a period of up to one year. Others are also developing technology for long-term continuous glucose monitoring, including Medtronic, but progress is difficult to assess. Although the introduction of these continuous blood glucose testing devices could adversely affect our business, no device has yet been approved or, to our knowledge, developed as a replacement to the finger-stick testing method. Other companies are developing minimally invasive or noninvasive blood glucose testing devices and technologies that could also compete with our devices. We believe that the success of a minimally invasive or noninvasive blood glucose monitor could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and research organizations like the National Institute of Health and other supporters of diabetes research are continually seeking ways to prevent, cure or improve the treatment of diabetes. Therefore, our products may be rendered obsolete by technological breakthroughs in diabetes treatment or prevention. 19 Table of Contents Any successful effort by one or more of our competitors to replicate our marketing strategy could have an adverse effect on our business. Although we believe that none of our competitors has adopted a co-branding strategy similar to ours, there is no legal or regulatory impediment to their doing so. Therefore, one or more of our competitors may offer our current customers their own co-branded products as an alternative to our products. Any successful effort by them to replicate our marketing strategy could have an adverse effect on our business. If we fail to develop new products or if the pace of our product development fails to keep up with that of our competitors, our net sales and future profitability could be adversely affected. We are currently developing new products and enhancements to our current products. Development of these products requires additional research and development expenditures. Marketing of these products will require FDA and international regulatory clearances or approvals. We may not be successful in developing, manufacturing or marketing these new products. Furthermore, if our pace of product development fails to keep up with our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources than us, our net sales and future profitability could be adversely affected. Our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property could allow our competitors and others to manufacture and market products based on our patented or proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights, which could substantially impair our ability to compete. Our success and ability to compete is dependent, in part, upon our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws and nondisclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property. However, such methods may not be adequate to protect us. Despite our efforts to safeguard our intellectual property rights, we may not be successful in doing so or the steps taken by us in this regard may not be adequate to detect or deter misappropriation of our technology or to prevent an unauthorized third party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our products, technology or other proprietary information. Our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property could allow our competitors and others to manufacture and market products based on our patented or proprietary technology or other intellectual property rights, which could substantially impair our ability to compete. We may in the future need to assert claims of infringement against third parties to protect our intellectual property. Litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights in patents, copyrights, or trademarks is highly unpredictable, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations regardless of the final outcome of such litigation. In the event of an adverse judgment, a court could hold that some or all of our asserted intellectual property rights have not been infringed, are invalid, or are unenforceable, and could award attorney fees. We may become subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation of the intellectual property rights of others, which could prohibit us from shipping applicable products or require us to obtain licenses from third parties or to develop non-infringing alternatives, and could subject us to substantial monetary damages and injunctive relief. Third parties could, in the future, assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us with respect to our current or future products. Although we perform investigations of the intellectual property of third parties, we cannot be certain that we have not infringed any such intellectual property rights. Any such infringement or misappropriation claim could result in significant costs, substantial damages and our inability to manufacture, market or sell our existing or future products. We could be prohibited from shipping products that are found to infringe. We also could be forced to obtain licenses from third parties or to develop a non-infringing alternative, which could be costly and time-consuming. A court could also order us to pay compensatory damages for such infringement, plus prejudgment interest, and could, in addition, treble the compensatory damages and award attorney fees. These damages could be substantial and could harm our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results. A court could also enter orders that temporarily, 20 Table of Contents preliminarily or permanently enjoin us or our customers from making, using, selling, offering to sell or importing our products, or could enter an order mandating that we undertake certain remedial activities. Depending on the nature of the relief ordered by the court, we could become liable for additional damages to third parties. In April 2005, we paid $5.0 million to settle a claim by a competitor that one of our products infringed on one of their patents. In December 2007, we paid $3.5 million to Roche Diagnostics Corporation (“Roche”) in settlement of a patent infringement suit filed in February 2004. In the complaint, Roche alleged that our TrueTrack Smart System and TrackEASE Smart System blood glucose monitors infringed on U.S. Patent Nos. 5,366,609 and Re. 36,268, relating to biosensing blood glucose monitors. Among the terms of the settlement is a royalty free, fully paid-up worldwide license under the patents at issue. In addition, the settlement terms include a covenant by Roche not to sue Home Diagnostics on the licensed patents. See Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. See Item 3. — “Legal Proceedings” below. Competitive bidding for durable medical equipment suppliers could negatively affect our business. On April 2, 2007, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) issued a final rule to implement a new competitive bidding program in Medicare. The new competitive bidding program, mandated by Congress in the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (MMA), will replace the current Medicare fee schedule for certain durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics, and supplies (DMEPOS) in ten of the largest Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSAs) across the country and will apply initially to ten categories of medical equipment and supplies, including diabetic supplies obtained via mail order arrangements (i.e. test strips and lancets used with blood glucose monitors). The program will be expanded into 70 additional MSAs in 2009 and into additional areas after 2009. Under the competitive bidding program, beneficiaries will continue to have the option of obtaining diabetic supplies through mail-order or other modes of delivery, but only mail-order diabetic supplies are subject to competitive bidding at this time. CMS began accepting bids in April 2007 and is expected to announce the winning bids in March 2008. New pricing under the program will go into effect in July 2008. In January 2008, CMS announced the 70 MSAs and product categories for the second round of competitive bidding to be implemented in 2009, however, diabetic supplies were not included in the list of product categories. It is possible CMS will seek to implement a national mail order diabetic program by 2010. To the extent that the competitive bidding program exerts downward pressure on the prices our customers may be willing or able to pay for our products or imposes additional costs, our operating results could be negatively affected. A significant disruption by certain of our vendors could have a material adverse effect on our production output, net sales and overall financial performance. We rely upon certain vendors to supply certain parts for our products on a sole source basis. Some of our arrangements with these vendors are not on a contractual basis and can be terminated by either party with no advance notice. Although we have identified alternative vendors for the parts supplied by these sole source vendors, if there is a sudden termination, we may not be able to qualify these alternative vendors under the FDA’s Quality System Regulation in sufficient time to prevent a disruption in production output. Such a disruption could have a material adverse effect on our production output, net sales, and overall financial performance. If our manufacturing capabilities are insufficient to produce an adequate supply of products at appropriate quality levels, our growth could be limited and our business could be harmed. We have made a significant investment in custom manufacturing equipment to produce our blood glucose monitoring systems, including our TRUEtest platform to be launched in the second half of 2008, following FDA clearance. We may have difficulty scaling our manufacturing operations to provide a sufficient supply of product to support our current or future demand. The scaling of manufacturing capacity is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, such as design, installation and maintenance of manufacturing equipment, among others, which can lead to unexpected delays and/or increased costs. There can be no assurance that we will be 21 Table of Contents able to efficiently scale our manufacturing process and operations. If we are unable to manufacture a sufficient supply of our products, maintain control over expenses or otherwise adapt to anticipated growth, or if we under estimate growth, we may not have the capability to satisfy market demand and our business will suffer. Product liability suits, whether or not meritorious, could be brought against us based on allegations of defective products or for the misuse of our products. These suits could result in expensive and time-consuming litigation, payment of substantial damages and an increase in our insurance rates. If someone claims our products are defectively designed or manufactured, or contain defective components, whether or not such claims are meritorious, we may become subject to substantial and costly litigation. Misusing our products or failing to adhere to the operating guidelines of our product usage insert in our user guides could cause diabetics to improperly maintain their blood glucose levels, which could cause them significant harm, including death. In addition, if our operating guidelines are found to be inadequate, we may be subject to liability. Product liability claims could divert management’s attention from our core business, be expensive to defend and result in sizable damage awards against us. While we believe that we are reasonably insured against these risks, we may not have sufficient insurance coverage for all future claims. Any product liability claims brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing continuing coverage, could harm our reputation in the industry, could prevent or interfere with our product commercialization efforts, and could reduce product net sales. Product liability claims in excess of our insurance coverage would be paid out of cash reserves, harming our financial condition and reducing our operating results. Failure to secure or retain third-party coverage or reduced reimbursement for our products by third-party payors could adversely affect our business and operating results. Many of our products are ultimately paid for by third-party payors, including private insurance companies, health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations, Medicare and Medicaid. Healthcare market initiatives in the United States may lead third-party payors to decline or reduce reimbursement for our products. International market acceptance of our products may depend, in part, upon the availability of reimbursement within prevailing healthcare systems. Reimbursement and healthcare systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and include both government sponsored healthcare and private insurance. We may not obtain international reimbursement approvals in a timely manner, if at all. Our failure to receive international reimbursement approvals may negatively impact market acceptance of our products in the international markets in which those approvals are sought. We believe that in the future reimbursement will be subject to increased restrictions both in the United States and in international markets. We further believe that the overall escalating cost of medical products and services will continue to lead to increased pressures on the healthcare industry, both domestic and international, to reduce the cost of products and services, including our current products and products under development. There can be no assurance that third-party reimbursement and coverage will be available or adequate in either the United States or international markets or that future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payors will not otherwise adversely affect the demand for our existing products or products currently under development by us or our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. The unavailability of third-party payor coverage or the inadequacy of reimbursement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain third-party payors are currently classifying our Sidekick disposable blood glucose monitoring system as a meter, rather than as test strips. Since third-party payors generally will reimburse for a new meter only once every year or two, these classifications could have an adverse effect on our ability to grow sales of our Sidekick system. We are working to persuade those third-party payors to reclassify the Sidekick for test strip reimbursement, which would allow for the reimbursement of recurring purchases consistent with standard test strip reimbursement frequencies; we have had success in some states, but not in others, and cannot be certain that our efforts will be successful in the future. 22 Table of Contents We operate a manufacturing facility in Taiwan and may expand further into markets outside the United States, which subjects us to additional business and regulatory risks. We operate a manufacturing facility in Taiwan and intend to increase our operations in international markets. We expect that an increasingly significant portion of our net sales and expenses will be derived from operations in foreign countries. Conducting business internationally subjects us to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: • fluctuations in foreign currencies; • unexpected delays or changes in regulatory requirements; • availability of reimbursement within prevailing healthcare payment systems; • delays and expenses associated with tariffs and other trade barriers; • restrictions on and impediments to repatriation of our funds and our distributors’ ability to make payments to us; • political and economic instability; • difficulties and costs associated with attracting and maintaining third-party distributors; • uncertainty in shipping and receiving products and product components; • increased difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer accounts receivable cycles in certain foreign countries; and • adverse tax consequences or overlapping tax structures. Any of these risks could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry and if we fail to comply with applicable laws and government regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. The healthcare industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to: • billing for services; • financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources; • inducements and courtesies being given to patients; • quality of medical equipment and services; • confidentiality, maintenance, and security issues associated with medical records and individually identifiable health information; • false claims; • professional licensure; and • labeling products. These laws and regulations are extremely complex and, in some cases, still evolving. In many instances, the industry does not have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. We believe that we are in compliance with all applicable healthcare industry regulations and laws. However, regulatory authorities that enforce the various statutes may determine that we are violating federal, state, or local laws and we may need to restructure some of our operations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these federal, state, or local laws and regulations or the other governmental regulations which govern our activities, we may be subject to the applicable 23 Table of Contents penalties associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, or curtailment of our operations, which, individually or in the aggregate, could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The risk of us being found in violation of these laws and regulations is increased by the fact that many of laws and regulations have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. In addition, healthcare laws and regulations may change significantly in the future. We monitor these developments and modify our operations from time to time as the regulatory environment changes. Any new healthcare laws or regulations may adversely affect our business or restrict our operations. A review of our business by courts or regulatory authorities may result in a determination that could adversely affect our operations. Any future healthcare investigations of our executives, our managers, or us could result in significant liabilities or penalties, as well as adverse publicity. All of our manufacturing operations are conducted at our facilities in the United States and in Taiwan. Any disruption at either of our facilities could increase our expenses and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. All of our manufacturing operations are conducted at our facilities in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, and in Hsinchu City, Taiwan. The concentration of much of our operations and manufacturing in Florida and Taiwan makes us more vulnerable than some other industry participants to the risks associated with adverse weather conditions such as hurricanes and tropical storms. A natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tropical storm, typhoon, tornado, earthquake, fire, or flood, could cause substantial delays in our operations, damage or destroy our manufacturing equipment or inventory, and cause us to incur additional expenses. The insurance we maintain against fires, floods, and other natural disasters may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we derived approximately 27.6% of our total net sales from two customers. The loss of either of those customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In the year ended December 31, 2007, our two largest customers, McKesson Corporation (including its McKesson Medical Surgical division) and Walgreen Co., accounted for approximately 14.7% and 12.9%, respectively, of our total net sales. Our principal customers may not continue to purchase our products for competitive or other reasons. The loss of any of our principal customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. To the extent we acquire complementary businesses or technologies in the future, we may experience difficulty integrating those acquisitions. Additionally, we may incur debt to finance those acquisitions, which adds additional financial risk to our business. To the extent we incur too much debt in undertaking acquisitions, we may adversely affect our financial position and operating results. The process of integrating acquired businesses or technologies may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require significant financial and other resources and a disproportionate amount of management’s attention. We may not be able to successfully manage and integrate new businesses or technologies into our existing operations or successfully maintain the market share attributable to any acquired businesses. We may also encounter cost overruns related to such acquisitions. To the extent we experience some or all of these difficulties, our financial condition would be adversely affected. Any such acquisitions may cause us to incur indebtedness, increasing our debt service requirements and the amount of our cash flow that would have to be directed to the repayment of debt, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial position. 24 Table of Contents We may not be able to raise additional funds through public or private financings or additional borrowings, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our cash on hand, cash flow from operations and present borrowing capacity may not be sufficient to fund necessary capital expenditures and working capital requirements. We may from time to time seek additional financing, either in the form of bank borrowings, sales of debt or equity securities or otherwise. To the extent our capital resources and cash flow from operations are at any time insufficient to fund our activities or repay our indebtedness as it becomes due, we will need to raise additional funds through public or private financings or additional borrowings. We may not be able to obtain any such capital resources in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain the necessary capital resources, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We could be adversely affected if we lost the services of our officers and key employees. The success of our business is highly dependent upon the services, efforts and abilities of J. Richard Damron, Jr., our President and Chief Executive Officer, and our other officers and key employees. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the loss of any of these individuals. We do not maintain key man life insurance on the lives of any of our executive officers or key employees. We are incurring increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we are incurring significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. We will continue to incur costs associated with our public company reporting requirements and costs associated with corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and the National Association of Securities Dealers. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. Our debt agreement contains restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our debt agreement contains various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things: • create additional liens; • repurchase our capital stock other than pursuant to employee compensation plans; and • participate in a change of control of the Company. If we fail to obtain or maintain necessary FDA clearances or approvals for products, or if approvals are delayed, we will be unable to commercially distribute and market our products in the United States. Our products are subject to extensive regulation in the United States and in foreign countries where we do business. Unless an exemption applies, each device that we wish to market in the United States must first receive either 510(k) clearance or premarket approval from the FDA. Either process can be lengthy and expensive. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance process usually takes from four to twelve months from the date the application is complete, but may take longer. Although we have obtained 510(k) clearance for our current products, our 510(k) clearance can be revoked if safety or effectiveness problems develop. New product introductions, including the TRUEresult and TRUE2go meter systems and the TRUEtest test strips, will require 510(k) clearance prior to commercialization. The premarket approval process is much more costly, lengthy and uncertain. It generally takes from one to three years from the date the application is complete or even longer. However, achieving a completed application is a process that may take numerous clinical trials and require the filing of amendments over time. Delays in obtaining clearance or approval could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. 25 Table of Contents Modification to our marketed devices may require new 510(k) clearances or premarket approvals or require us to cease marketing or recall the modified devices until these clearances are obtained. Any modification to an FDA cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires a new FDA 510(k) clearance or possibly premarket approval. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the FDA can review any such decision. The FDA may not agree with any of our decisions not to seek new clearance or approval. If the FDA requires us to seek 510(k) clearance or premarket approval for any modifications to a previously cleared product, we may be required to cease marketing or recall the modified device until we obtain this clearance or approval. Also, in these circumstances, we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, our manufacturing operations could be delayed, and our product sales and profitability could suffer. Our manufacturing processes are required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, which covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. The FDA enforces the Quality System Regulation through unannounced inspections. If we or one of our suppliers fail a Quality System Regulation inspection or if our corrective action plan is not sufficient, our operations could be disrupted and our manufacturing delayed. If we fail to take adequate corrective action in response to any FDA observations, we could face various enforcement actions, which could include a shut-down of our manufacturing operations and a recall of our products, which would cause our product sales and profitability to suffer. Furthermore, our key component suppliers may not currently be or may not continue to be in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. However, all components received from our suppliers undergo some level of inspection to assure that these components meet our established requirements as necessary to assure product quality. Risks related to our common stock We have been sued by an individual who claims compensation for consulting services. In 2001, a lawsuit was filed against us, MIT Development Corp., or MIT, George Holley and the Estate of Robert Salem. The plaintiff claims that he was engaged in 1994 to provide financial consulting services for MIT, Mr. Holley and Mr. Salem. Among other things, he claims he was to receive 10% of the increase in the value received by MIT, Holley or Salem from HDI in connection with any transaction with HDI. In November 1999, HDI acquired MIT from Messrs. Holley and Salem. In March 2007, a settlement was agreed by the parties to this lawsuit. The settlement provides for a total of $3.0 million of consideration to be paid by the defendants. Our share of the settlement consideration is $0.6 million and the remaining $2.4 million was to be funded by George Holley and the Estate of Robert Salem by furnishing restricted shares of the Company’s common stock. In July and October 2007, the court arbitrated the final payment terms of the settlement consistent with the foregoing description and ordered the immediate exchange of mutual releases and payment of cash and stock. The agreed settlement funds and shares were delivered to an escrow agent in accordance with the court’s order of October 31, 2007; however, Mr. Brandt failed to comply with the court’s rulings. Instead, Mr. Brandt moved to vacate the settlement and sought a new trial, and we filed a motion with the court to uphold the settlement. At a hearing on February 28, 2008, the court indicated it would grant our motion to compel Mr. Brandt to perform the settlement and deny Mr. Brandt’s motion to vacate the settlement and obtain a new trial. It is not presently known whether Mr. Brandt would seek to appeal such a ruling. See Item 3 — Legal Proceedings” below. We are controlled by our officers and directors and one large non-management stockholder. As of March 1, 2008, our officers and directors and Judy Salem, individually and as executrix for The Estate of Robert Salem, our largest non-management stockholder, beneficially owned approximately 38% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, they may be able to control the outcome of stockholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our certificate 26 Table of Contents of incorporation or bylaws and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. The existence of these levels of ownership concentration makes it unlikely that any other holder of our common stock will be able to affect our management or direction. These factors may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in the management or voting control of HDI. Our existing dividend policy may limit our payment of dividends. We have never declared a cash dividend on our common stock and do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We expect that all cash flow generated from our operations in the foreseeable future will be retained and used to develop or expand our business. Preferred stock, with rights and preferences adverse to the voting power or other rights of holders of our common stock, may be issued without stockholder approval. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our Board of Directors. Accordingly, our Board of Directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which would adversely affect the voting power or other rights of our common stockholders. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control, which could have the effect of discouraging bids and thereby preventing common stockholders from receiving the maximum value for their shares. We have no present intention to issue any shares of preferred stock in order to discourage or delay a change of control. However, there can be no assurance that preferred stock will not be issued at some time in the future. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of Delaware corporate law may make a takeover difficult. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of Delaware corporate law may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by our management and board of directors. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change of control or change our management and board of directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 