ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our results of operations and financial condition can be adversely affected by numerous risks and uncertainties. The most important of these risks and uncertainties are detailed below. You should carefully consider the risk factors described below and other risks which may be disclosed from time to time in the Company’s filings with the SEC before investing in the Company’s securities. Should any of these risks actually materialize, our business, financial condition, and future prospects could be negatively impacted. Intense competition in the retail industry. We face intense competition for customers from department stores, specialty retailers and regional and national off-price retail chains. Many of these competitors are larger and have significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we do. In addition, many department stores have become more promotional and have reduced their price points, and certain department stores and certain of our vendors have opened outlet stores which offer merchandise at prices that are competitive with ours. Many of our competitors also make sales through the Internet, and although we do maintain an Internet site, we do not sell merchandise online. Accordingly, we may face periods of intense competition in the future which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. We may be unable to open new stores in a cost-effective and timely manner. Our future operating results will depend to a substantial extent upon our ability to open and operate new stores successfully, and our ability to open new stores will depend upon a number of factors, including the ability to properly identify and enter new markets, locate suitable store sites in the face of intense competition, negotiate acceptable lease terms, construct or refurbish sites, hire, train and retain skilled managers and personnel, and other factors, some of which may be beyond our control. In particular, the success of our individual stores depends to a great extent on locating them in desirable and convenient venues in markets that include our target demographic. The success of individual stores 8 also may depend on the success of the shopping centers in which they are located. In addition, the demographic and other marketing data we rely on in determining the location of our stores cannot predict future consumer preferences and buying trends with complete accuracy. As a result, stores we open may not be profitable or may be less successful than we anticipate. Lastly, our proposed expansion also will place increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources. These increased demands could cause us to operate our business less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in the financial performance of our existing stores. In addition, to the extent that our new store openings are in existing markets, we may experience reduced net sales volumes in existing stores in those markets. We expect to fund our expansion through cash flow from operations and, if necessary, by borrowings under our revolving credit facility; however, if we experience a decline in performance, we may slow or discontinue store openings. Consumer sensitivity to economic conditions. The retail apparel business is dependent upon the level of consumer spending which may be materially adversely affected by an economic downturn or a decline in consumer confidence. As a fashion retailer, we rely on the expenditure of discretionary income for most, if not all, of our sales. A downturn, whether real or perceived, in economic conditions or prospects, particularly in the Southeast and other regions in which we derive a significant portion of our net sales, could adversely affect consumer spending habits and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In particular, the continued threat of terrorism, heightened security measures and military action in response to an act of terrorism has disrupted commerce and intensified the uncertainty of the U.S. economy. Any further acts of terrorism or a future war may further disrupt commerce and undermine consumer confidence, which could negatively impact our sales revenue by causing consumer spending to decline. Furthermore, an act of terrorism or war, or the threat thereof, could negatively impact our business by interfering with our ability to obtain merchandise from vendors. Inability to obtain merchandise from our vendors or substitute suppliers at similar costs in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Unanticipated changes in fashion trends and changing consumer preferences. Our success depends in part upon our ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends in a timely manner. Although we attempt to stay abreast of the fashion tastes of our customers and provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand, fashion trends can change rapidly and we cannot assure that we will accurately anticipate shifts in fashion trends and adjust our merchandise mix to appeal to changing consumer tastes in a timely manner. If we misjudge the market for our products or are unsuccessful in responding to changes in fashion trends or in market demand, we could experience insufficient or excess inventory levels which could result in higher markdowns, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A lack of adequate sources of merchandise at acceptable prices. Our business is dependent to a significant degree upon our ability to purchase designer and other fashion merchandise at acceptable wholesale prices. Although we believe our relationships with our vendors are positive, we do not have long-term agreements with any vendor. As a result, we must continuously seek out buying opportunities from our existing suppliers and from new sources. We compete for these opportunities with other retailers, discount and deep-discount chains, mass merchandisers and various privately-held companies and individuals. Although we do not depend on any single vendor or group of vendors and believe we can successfully compete in seeking out new vendors, the loss of certain key vendors could make it difficult for us to acquire sufficient quantities and an appropriate mix of merchandise at acceptable prices, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Seasonality, and especially the importance of the holiday selling season. Our business is affected by the seasonal pattern common to most retailers. Historically, our highest net sales and profit levels occur during the fourth quarter, which includes the holiday selling season. Our operating results depend significantly upon net sales generated during the fourth quarter, and any factor that negatively impacts the holiday selling season could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the entire year. Our advertising, marketing and promotional strategies may be ineffective and inefficient. Our profitability and results of operations may be materially affected by the effectiveness and efficiency of our marketing expenditures and our ability to select the right markets and media in which to advertise. In particular, we may not be successful in our efforts to create greater awareness of our stores and our promotions, identify the most effective and efficient level of spending in each market and specific media vehicle and determine the appropriate creative message and media mix for our advertising, marketing and promotional expenditures. Our planned marketing expenditures may not result in increased revenues. In addition, if we are not able to manage our marketing expenditures on a cost-effective basis, our profitability and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If the third parties, which we rely on for a majority of the distribution aspects of our business, experience labor strikes or do not adequately perform our distribution functions, our business would be disrupted. The efficient operation of our stores is dependent on our ability to receive merchandise in our stores throughout the United States in a timely manner. We depend on vendors to sort and pack substantially all of our merchandise and on package delivery companies to deliver this merchandise directly to our stores. These vendors and package delivery companies may experience labor strikes or other disruptions in the future, the resolution of which will be out of our control, and could result in a material disruption in our business. Any failure by these third parties to respond adequately to our distribution needs, including labor strikes or other disruptions in the business, would disrupt our operations and negatively impact our profitability. 9 Because of our focus on keeping our inventory at the forefront of fashion trends, extreme and/or unseasonable weather conditions could force us to prematurely mark down inventory. Our business is susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could render a portion of our inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions. These prolonged unseasonable weather conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, hurricanes or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period might make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, as many of our stores are located in the southeastern United States and Texas, we are subject to disruptions from hurricanes which may have a material adverse effect on our business. Fluctuations in comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations could cause the price of our common stock to decline substantially. Our comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations are affected by a variety of factors, including: • fashion trends • calendar shifts of holiday or seasonal periods • the effectiveness of our inventory management • changes in our merchandise mix • the timing of promotional events • weather conditions • changes in general economic conditions and consumer spending patterns • actions of competitors Our comparable store sales and quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and are expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain comparable store sales increases as we expand our business. We may be unable to close under-performing stores in a cost-effective and timely manner. As part of our strategy, we close certain under-performing stores, generally based on considerations of store profitability, competition, strategic factors and other considerations. Closing a store could subject us to costs including the write-down of leasehold improvements, equipment, furniture and fixtures. In addition, we could remain liable for future lease obligations. These costs associated with closings of under-performing stores could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. Our failure to adequately protect our trademark Stein Mart®, and, to a lesser extent, the various other marks we use in conjunction with our private label merchandise program, could have a negative impact on our brand image. We believe that our trademark Stein Mart® and, to a lesser extent, the various other marks that we use in connection with our private label merchandise program, are important to us because we feel that these brands have characteristics unique to our business. We have obtained a federal registration of the Stein Mart® trademark and various other trademarks in the United States. We cannot assure you that the registrations that we have obtained will prevent the imitation of our business or infringement of our intellectual property rights by others. If we are unable to protect our brand or our brand becomes associated with lesser characteristics or otherwise carries a negative connotation, our brand image, and consequently the results of our operations, could be materially adversely affected. We are dependent on certain key personnel. Our continued success will depend to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our senior executives, and the loss of the services of one or more of these executives could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. These executives are Michael D. Fisher, president and chief executive officer; Jay Stein, chairman of the board of directors; James G. Delfs, senior vice president, finance and chief financial officer; D. Hunt Hawkins, senior vice president, human resources; and Michael D. Ray, senior vice president, director of stores; and our general merchandising managers, M. Kassie Jones, William A. Moll and John H. Pennell, as well as the vice president of planning and allocation, Roseann McLean. Our continued success is also dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified employees to meet our needs, especially to support planned growth. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 10 