Item 1a. Risk Factors Because of the size and geographic reach of the Company's operations, a wide range of factors could materially affect the Company's future developments and performance. Management believes the most significant risk factors affecting its operations include the following: External factors beyond the Company's control can cause fluctuations in demand for its products and in its prices and margins, which may negatively affect results of operations and cash flow. External factors beyond the control of Praxair can cause volatility in the price of raw materials and other operating costs, as well as significant fluctuations in demand for its products and can magnify the impact of economic cycles on its businesses. Examples of external factors include: w General economic conditions; w Cost and availability of raw materials and energy; w International events and circumstances; w Competitor actions; and w Governmental regulations. General Economic Conditions Although Praxair serves approximately 25 diverse industries across 40 countries, which generally leads to financial stability through various business cycles, demand for Praxair's products would be adversely affected by a broad decline in general economic or business conditions in the industries served by its customers. In addition, many of the Company's customers are in businesses that are cyclical in nature, such as the chemicals, metals and refining industries. Downturns in these industries may adversely impact Praxair's financial position and results of operations. Cost and Availability of Raw Materials and Energy Energy is the single largest cost item in the production and distribution of industrial gases. Most of Praxair's energy requirements are in the form of electricity, natural gas and diesel fuel for distribution. Praxair attempts to minimize the financial impact of variability in these costs through the management of customer contracts, which typically have escalation and pass-through clauses for the Company's larger contracts. Such attempts may not successfully mitigate the impact of cost variability which could negatively impact its financial condition or results of operations. The supply of energy has not been a significant issue in the geographic areas where it conducts business. However, regional energy conditions are unpredictable and may pose future risk. For carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, helium, hydrogen, specialty gases and surface technologies, raw materials are largely purchased from outside sources. Praxair has contracts or commitments for, or readily available sources of, most of these raw materials; however, their long-term availability and prices are subject to market conditions. A disruption in supply of such raw materials could impact the Company's ability to meet contractual supply commitments. International Events and Circumstances Praxair has substantial international operations, which is subject to the risks of doing business abroad, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, transportation delays and interruptions, political and economic instability and disruptions, restrictions on the transfer of funds, the imposition of duties and tariffs, import and export controls, changes in governmental policies, labor unrest, and current and changing regulatory environments. These events could have an adverse effect on the international operations in the future by reducing the demand for its products, decreasing the prices at which it can sell its products or otherwise having an adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. The results of Praxair's non-U.S. operations are translated to the Company's reporting currency, the U.S. dollar, from the functional currencies used in the countries in which the Company operates. For most foreign operations, Praxair uses the local currency as its functional currency. There is inherent variability and unpredictability in the relationship of these functional currencies to the U.S. dollar and such currency movements may materially impact Praxair's results of operations in any given period. -6- PART I (Continued) Praxair, Inc. and Subsidiaries Competitor Actions Praxair operates within a highly competitive environment worldwide. Competition is based on price, product quality, delivery, reliability, technology and service to customers. Competitors' behavior related to these areas could potentially have significant impacts on the Company's operations. Governmental Regulations Praxair's operations are subject to a variety of United States and foreign government regulations. These regulations include those related to the following areas, among others: w Environmental protection and safety w Domestic and international tax laws and currency controls w Transportation w Safety w Securities laws (e.g., SEC and Financial Accounting Standards Board in the United States) w Patents w Trade restrictions w Antitrust matters Changes in these or other regulatory areas may require the Company to spend additional resources to comply with the regulations, or may restrict the Company's ability to compete effectively in the marketplace. Catastrophic events may disrupt Praxair's business or the business of its customers and may negatively affect its financial condition and results of operations. A severe act of nature, such as a hurricane, could cause disruption or delays in completing sales and providing services to the Company's customers or cause customer operation outages, which may be temporary or of a longer-term in nature. A catastrophic event that results in the disruption of Praxair's business, such as a fire or explosion, or that of its customers could severely affect the Company's ability to conduct normal business operations and expose it to third-party liability claims which, as a result, could have a significant adverse impact to the Company's results of operations. If Praxair fails to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel, the Company may not be able to develop, market or sell its products or successfully manage its business. Praxair is dependent upon its highly skilled, experienced and efficient workforce to be successful. Much of Praxair's competitive advantage is based on the expertise and experience of its key personnel regarding its marketing, technology, manufacturing and distribution infrastructure, systems and products. The inability to attract and hire qualified individuals or the loss of key employees in very skilled areas could have a negative effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. If Praxair fails to keep pace with technological advances in the industry or if new technology initiatives do not become commercially accepted, customers may not continue to buy the Company's products and results of operations could be adversely affected. Praxair's research and development is directed toward developing new and improved methods for the production and distribution of industrial gases and the development of new markets and applications for the use of these gases. This results in the frequent introduction of new industrial gas applications, and the development of new advanced air separation process technologies. The Company also conducts research and development for its surface technologies to improve the quality and durability of coatings and the use of speciality powders for new applications and industries. The results of these research and development activities help Praxair to create a competitive advantage and provide a platform for the Company to grow its business at greater percentages than the rate of industrial production growth in the geographies where it operates. If Praxair's research and development activities did not keep pace with competitors or if it did not create new applications that benefit customers, the Company's future results of operations could be adversely affected. -7- PART I (Continued) Praxair, Inc. and Subsidiaries Praxair is subject to various lawsuits and governmental investigations arising out of the normal course of business that may result in adverse outcomes. Praxair is subject to various lawsuits and government investigations from time to time. These actions are based upon alleged environmental, tax, antitrust and personal injury claims, among others. Adverse outcomes in some or all of the claims pending may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect its ability to conduct business. While management currently believes that resolving all of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations, the litigation and other claims Praxair faces are subject to inherent uncertainties and management's view of these matters may change in the future. There exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on its financial position and results of operations for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. Praxair could incur substantial costs due to environmental laws and regulations. Praxair is subject to various environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air or water, the storage, handling and disposal of chemicals, hazardous substances and wastes, and the remediation of contamination. Violations of these laws could result in substantial penalties, third party claims for property damage or personal injury, or sanctions. The Company may also be subject to liability for the investigation and remediation of environmental contamination at properties that it owns or operates and at other properties where Praxair or its predecessors have operated or arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes. Although management does not believe that any such liabilities will have a material adverse impact on its financial position and results of operations, management cannot provide assurance that such costs will not increase in the future or will not become material. Praxair may be exposed to additional tax liabilities in the future. Praxair is subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. The determination of the Company's worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires judgment and is based on diverse legislative and regulatory structures that exist in the various jurisdictions where the Company operates. Although management believes its estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in its financial statements and may materially affect the Company's financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. Acquisitions could result in operating difficulties, dilution and other negative consequences. Praxair has evaluated, and expects to continue to evaluate, a wide array of potential strategic transactions. Many of these transactions, if consummated, could be material to its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the process of integrating an acquired company, business or group of assets may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Although historically the Company has been successful with its acquisition strategy and execution, the areas where the Company may face risks include: w The need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to the acquisition lacked these controls, procedures and policies; w Diversion of management time and focus from operating existing business to acquisition integration challenges; w Cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into the existing organization; w The need to integrate each company's accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management; -8- PART I (Continued) Praxair, Inc. and Subsidiaries w Difficulty with the assimilation of acquired operations and products; w Failure to achieve targeted synergies; and w Inability to retain key employees and business relationships of acquired companies. Foreign acquisitions involve unique risks in addition to those mentioned above, including those related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. Also, the anticipated benefit of the Company's acquisitions may not materialize. Future acquisitions or dispositions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could adversely impact the Company's financial condition. Item 1b. Unresolved SEC Comments Praxair has received no written SEC staff comments regarding any of its Exchange Act reports which were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2005 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. Item 