ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS As provided for under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we wish to caution shareholders and investors that the following important factors, among others discussed throughout this Annual Report on 10 Table of Contents Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, have affected, and in some cases could affect, our actual results of operation and cause our results to differ materially from those anticipated in forward looking statements made herein. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected due to any of the following risks. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our financial statements and related notes. Risks Related to Our Business Failure to increase our revenue and keep our expenses consistent with revenues could prevent us from achieving and maintaining profitability. We incurred net losses of approximately $9,005,000, $9,367,000, and $15,811,000 for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and had accumulated deficit of approximately $155,518,000 at June 30, 2010. We have expended, and will continue to be required to expend, substantial funds to pursue product development projects, enhance our marketing and sales efforts and to otherwise operate our business. Therefore, we will need to generate higher revenues to achieve and maintain profitability and cannot assure you that we will be profitable in any future period. Our prospects should be considered in light of the difficulties frequently encountered in connection with the establishment of a new business line, which characterizes our business, such as the difficulty in creating a viable market, the significant related development and marketing costs and the overall competitive environment in which we operate. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve profitable operations in future operating periods. Our business results are likely to remain uncertain as we are unable to reliably predict revenues from our current customers or our ability to derive revenues from our joint venture. Revenue levels achieved from our customers, the mix of products and solutions that we offer, our ability to introduce new products as planned and our ability to reduce and manage our operating expenses will affect our financial results. Consequently, we cannot assure you that we will be profitable in any future period. Our capital requirements have been significant and we may need to raise additional capital. Our capital requirements have been and will continue to be significant. We have been substantially dependent upon private placements and registered offerings of our securities and on short-term and long-term loans from lending institutions to fund such requirements. We are expending significant amounts of capital to develop, promote and market our software, services and products. Due to these expenditures, we have incurred significant losses to date. We used approximately $8,363,000, $7,910,000, and $14,903,000 in cash for continuing operating activities for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of June 30, 2010 totaled approximately $1,512,000, we received net proceeds of approximately $2,350,000 from the sale of certain non-core assets which closed in July 2010 and we received net proceeds of approximately $4,500,000 from a private placement transaction in October 2010. We expect our existing resources, net proceeds from these transactions and revenues generated from operations to satisfy our working capital requirements for at least the next twelve months. No assurances can be given that we will be able to attain sales levels and support our costs through revenues derived from operations. If our available cash and projected revenue levels are not sufficient to sustain our operations, we will need to raise additional capital to fund operations and to meet our obligations in the future. To meet our financing requirements, we may raise funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or strategic alliances. Raising additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities may cause our stockholders to experience substantial dilution in their ownership interests and new investors may have rights superior to the rights of our other stockholders. Raising additional funds through debt financing, if available, may involve covenants that restrict our business activities and options. There can be no assurance, however, that the company will be successful in raising additional capital 11 Table of Contents or securing financing when needed or on terms satisfactory to the company. Our future capital requirements will depend on, and could increase substantially as a result of many factors, including: • our need to utilize a significant amount of cash to support research and development activities and to make incremental investments in our organization; • our ability to achieve targeted gross profit margins and cost management objectives; • our ability to reach break-even or profitability; • the extent to which we consolidate our facilities and relocate employees and assets; • the success of our sales and marketing efforts; • the extent and terms of any development, marketing or other arrangements, including our joint venture relationship; and • changes in economic, regulatory or competitive conditions, including the current financial crisis. Our revenues may be affected by changes in technology spending levels. In the past, unfavorable or uncertain macroeconomic conditions and reduced global technology spending rates have adversely affected the markets in which we operate. Current economic conditions and uncertainty about the recovery could reduce the demand for our products and negatively impact revenues and operating profit. We are unable to predict changes in general macroeconomic conditions and when global spending rates will be affected. Furthermore, even if spending rates increase, we cannot be certain that the market for our products and solutions will be positively impacted. If there are future reductions in either domestic or international spending rates, or if spending rates do not increase, our revenues, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Ongoing uncertainty in the credit markets and the financial services industry may negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. For the past two years, the credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, they may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition if our ability to obtain financing for operations or obtain credit from trade creditors were to be impaired. In addition, the recent economic crisis could also adversely impact our customers’ ability to finance the purchase of our products and solutions, which may negatively impact our business and results of operations. Healthcare policy changes, including recent laws to reform the U.S. healthcare system, may have a material adverse effect on us. Healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade. There have been, and continue to be, proposals by legislators, regulators, and third-party payors to keep these costs down. Certain proposals, if passed, could impose limitations on the prices we will be able to charge for our products, or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products from governmental agencies or third-party payors. These limitations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. On March 23, 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was signed into law and on March 30, 2010, the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 was signed into law. Together, the two measures make the most sweeping and fundamental changes to the U.S. healthcare system since the creation of Medicare and Medicaid. The Health Care Reform laws include a large number of health-related provisions to take effect over the next four years, including expanding Medicaid eligibility, requiring most individuals to have health insurance, establishing new regulations on health plans, establishing health insurance exchanges, requiring 12 Table of Contents manufacturers to report payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals, and modifying certain payment systems to encourage more cost-effective care and a reduction of inefficiencies and waste, including through new tools to address fraud and abuse. Effective in 2013, there will be a 2.3% excise tax on the sale of certain medical devices. In addition, various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. We cannot predict the exact effect newly enacted laws or any future legislation or regulation will have on us. However, the implementation of new legislation and regulation may lower reimbursements for our products, reduce medical procedure volumes and adversely affect our business, possibly materially. In addition, the enacted excise tax may materially and adversely affect our operating expenses and results of operations. If the United States Postal Service cancels our license agreement, we may need to incur additional costs in our efforts to successfully commercialize this technology. In July 2007, we entered into a new three-year license agreement with the U.S. Postal Service® (USPS) to act as a non-exclusive authorized service provider of the USPS Electronic Postmark® (EPM). Pursuant to this license agreement, the USPS granted the company a non-exclusive, worldwide license to use its applicable trademarks and other intellectual property rights for the EPM service in order to enable us to offer the EPM service directly to the market. The USPS will define and maintain the technical and operational standards for the EPM service, and serve as backup verifier for all EPM transactions. Authentidate is the first provider to be authorized in a new standards-based EPM service model created by the USPS to help ensure performance standards and facilitate the development of a multi-provider environment. We have operated the EPM service on behalf of the USPS since March 2003, under a strategic alliance agreement that expired on July 31, 2007. This license agreement was effective as of August 1, 2007 and has been extended through December 2010. Either party may terminate the agreement upon written notice if the other party is in material breach of any provision thereof, subject to applicable cure periods. In addition, either party may terminate this agreement for any reason, upon 120 days notice to the other party. No assurances can be given that the USPS will not terminate this agreement which termination could adversely affect our ability to commercialize this technology. The USPS will also have the right to terminate the license agreement upon written notice in connection with a change in control transaction affecting Authentidate. In accordance with the terms of the license agreement, Authentidate is required to provide prior written notice to the USPS of any merger, acquisition, restructuring, change of control, sale of all or substantially all of the stock or assets of Authentidate to which the USPS agreement relates, or an assignment to an affiliate, parent or subsidiary. Although such transactions do not require the approval or consent of USPS, USPS has the right, exercisable within 20 days from its receipt of Authentidate’s notice, to terminate the license agreement. On December 20, 2006, the President signed into law PL 109-435. This statute defines as “postal services” essentially the carriage of paper and printed matter, but grandfathers other services that were being offered by the USPS as of January 1, 2006, which we believed would include the EPM. However, the legislation further directed the Postal Regulatory Commission (PRC) to review non-postal services within two years to determine whether they should continue taking into account “the public need for the service” and “the ability of the private sector to meet the public need for the service.” In December 2008, the PRC determined that the USPS was authorized to continue the EPM as a “non-postal service.” We depend on growth in the software as a service market, and lack of growth or contraction in this market could materially adversely affect our sales and financial condition. Our software and web-based solutions compete with other “software as a service” solutions. Demand for our solutions and software offerings is driven by several factors, including an increased focus on protecting business-critical applications, government and industry regulations requiring data protection and integrity, and the growth in the market for software as a service. Segments of the computer and software industry have in the past experienced 13 Table of Contents significant economic downturns and decreases in demand as a result of changing market factors. A change in the market factors that are driving demand for offerings of software as a service could adversely affect our sales, profitability and financial condition. We depend on third parties for the manufacture and distribution of our telehealth appliance, which may result in delays and quality-control issues. We do not own or lease any manufacturing facilities. Accordingly, in order to market our telehealth solution, ExpressMD Solutions purchases finished appliances from an unaffiliated supplier. In addition, our joint venture entity uses unaffiliated third parties to provide distribution services for this solution. If the agreements with these third parties are terminated or if they do not perform their obligations under such agreements, it could take several months to establish and qualify alternative manufacturing and distribution partners for our products and we may not be able to fulfill our customers’ orders in a timely manner. At the present time we believe that if existing third party relationships terminate, alternative providers are available on commercially reasonable terms. However, there can be no assurance that the future production capacity of our current manufacturer will be sufficient to satisfy our requirements or that alternative providers of manufacturing or distribution services will be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The failure to identify suitable alternative manufacturers or distributors could adversely impact our customer relationships and our financial condition. In addition, due to our use of third-party manufacturers and distributors, we do not have control over the timing of product shipments. Delays in shipment could result in the deferral or cancellation of purchases of our products, which would harm our results of operations in any particular quarter. Net revenue for a period may be lower than predicted if large orders forecasted for that period are delayed or are not realized, which could impact cash flow or result in a decline in our stock price. We have been named as a party to several class action and derivative action lawsuits, and we may be named in additional litigation, all of which could require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses. An unfavorable outcome in one or more of these lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As described in detail in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, several purported class action complaints were filed in federal court alleging our company and certain of our current and former directors and former officers violated the federal securities laws. Subsequently, four purported shareholder derivative actions were filed against certain of our current and former directors and former officers based on allegations substantially similar to those set forth in the purported class actions. The expense of defending such litigation may be substantial and the time required to defend the actions could divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, an unfavorable outcome in such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. In March 2009, the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York dismissed with prejudice the second amended complaint that had been filed in the shareholder class action against the company and certain current and former directors and former officers. On March 16, 2010, we reported that the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit issued an order affirming in part and vacating and remanding in part the March 2009 decision of the S.D.N.Y. Our success is dependent on the performance of our management and the cooperation, performance and retention of our executive officers and key employees. Our business and operations are substantially dependent on the performance of our senior management team and executive officers. If our management team is unable to perform it may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance on any of our executive officers. The loss of one or several key employees could seriously harm our business. Any reorganization or 14 Table of Contents reduction in the size of our employee base could harm our ability to attract and retain other valuable employees critical to the success of our business. If we lose key personnel or fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully, our ability to manage our business could be impaired. Our future success depends upon the continued service of our key management, technical, sales, finance, and other critical personnel. Other than with respect to employment agreements that we entered into with our President, CFO and the President of our German operation, our key personnel do not have employment agreements and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them. Key personnel have left our company in the past and there likely will be additional departures of key personnel from time to time in the future. The loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, and the results of our operations. In addition, hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement sales and other personnel could be time consuming, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future revenues. If the carrying value of our long-lived assets is not recoverable, an impairment loss must be recognized which would adversely affect our financial results. We evaluate our long-lived assets, including property and equipment, goodwill, acquired product rights, and other intangible assets, whenever events or circumstances occur which indicate that these assets might be impaired. Goodwill is evaluated annually for impairment at the end of each fiscal year, regardless of events and circumstances. As of June 30, 2010, we had approximately $7,341,000 of goodwill principally from our acquisition of our German subsidiary, Authentidate International, AG. We will continue to evaluate the recoverability of the carrying amount of our long-lived assets, and we may incur substantial impairment charges, which could adversely affect our financial results. We have incurred significant additional costs concerning our international operations and may incur additional costs in the future. We have incurred substantial costs in supporting the operation of our German subsidiary, Authentidate International, AG. In June 2010, we renewed for one-year our employment agreement with Mr. Jan Wendenburg, the CEO of Authentidate International, pursuant to which he will receive a base salary of approximately 210,000 Euros. Further, for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we advanced or made capital investments of approximately $1,387,000 to this subsidiary. We cannot provide any assurance that we will recoup any of these amounts from this subsidiary. We expect to incur additional costs in the future in connection with the operations of this subsidiary. Developing and implementing new or updated software and services and other product offerings may take longer and cost more than expected. We rely on a combination of internal development, strategic relationships, licensing and acquisitions to develop our software and services. The cost of developing new software, services and other product offerings, such as Inscrybe Healthcare and related modules, and our telehealth offering is inherently difficult to estimate. Our development and implementation of proposed software, services or other product offerings may take longer than originally expected, require greater investment of cash resources than initially expected, require more testing than originally anticipated and require the acquisition of additional personnel and other resources. Accordingly, we expect to face substantial uncertainties with respect to the performance and market acceptance of new software and services and other product offerings. If we are unable to develop new or updated software, services or other product offerings on a timely basis and implement them without significant disruptions to the existing systems and processes of our customers, we may lose potential revenues and harm our relationships with current or potential customers. 15 Table of Contents The success of any of our product acquisition and licensing activities is subject to uncertainty and any completed acquisitions or licenses may reduce our earnings, be difficult to integrate, not perform as expected or require us to obtain additional financing. We regularly evaluate selective acquisitions and look to continue to enhance our product line by acquiring rights to additional products and services. Such acquisitions may be carried out through the purchase of assets, joint ventures and licenses or by acquiring other companies. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete acquisitions or in-licensing arrangements that meet our target criteria on satisfactory terms, if at all. Successfully integrating a product or service acquisition or in-licensing arrangement can be a lengthy and complex process. The diversion of our management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with any of our acquisitions or arrangements could result in the disruption of our ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that could negatively affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and others with whom we have business dealings. In addition, other companies, including those with substantially greater resources than ours, may compete with us for the acquisition of product or in-licensing candidates and approved products, resulting in the possibility that we devote resources to potential acquisitions or arrangements that are never completed. If we do engage in any such acquisition or arrangement, we will incur a variety of costs, and we may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition or arrangement in light of those costs. If we fail to realize the expected benefits from acquisitions or arrangements we may consummate in the future, whether as a result of unidentified risks, integration difficulties, regulatory setbacks or other events, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, our product acquisition and licensing activities may require us to obtain additional debt or equity financing, resulting in increased debt obligations or dilution of ownership to our existing stockholders, as applicable. Therefore, we may not be able to finance acquisitions on terms satisfactory to us, if at all. New or updated software, services and product offerings will not become profitable unless they achieve sufficient levels of market acceptance, which may require significant efforts and costs. There can be no assurance that customers and potential customers will accept from us new or updated software, services and other products. The future results of our business will depend, in significant part, on the success of our software, services or other product offerings. Current and potential customers may choose to use similar products and services offered by our competitors or may not purchase new or updated software, services or products, especially when they are initially offered and if they require changes in equipment or workflow. For software, services and products we are developing or may develop in the future, including through our ExpressMD joint venture, there can be no assurance that we will attract sufficient customers or that such offerings will generate sufficient revenues to cover their associated development, marketing and maintenance costs. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that any pricing strategy that we implement for any new software and services or other product offerings will be economically viable or acceptable to the target markets. Failure to achieve broad penetration in target markets with respect to new or updated software, services and product offerings could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects. Further, achieving market acceptance for new or updated software, services and product offerings is likely to require substantial marketing efforts and expenditure of significant funds to create awareness and demand by potential customers. We do not have patents on all the technology we use, which could harm our competitive position. Presently, we have two issued U.S. patents. In addition, we have two U.S. patent applications pending relating to the technology and business processes underlying our services and applications. However, some of the technology embodied in some of our current products cannot be patented. We have registered the trademarks “Authentidate”, “Inscrybe,” “Inscrybe Office” and “CareCert” in the U.S., the trademark “Authentidate” in Canada and the European Community, “Inscrybe” in the European Community and Canada, “Inscrybe Office,” and a number of other trademarks as Madrid Protocol international registrations. We continue to take steps to protect our intellectual property rights including filing additional trademark and patent applications where appropriate. We rely 16 Table of Contents on confidentiality agreements with our key employees to the extent we deem it to be necessary. We further intend to file patent applications for any new products we may develop, to the extent that we believe that any technology included in such products is patentable. There can be no assurance that any patents in fact, will be issued or that any such patents that do issue will be effective to protect our products and services from duplication by other manufacturers or developers or to prevent our competitors from offering similar products and services. Other companies operating within our business segments may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or otherwise obtain access to our know-how, much of which is maintained as trade secrets. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to afford the expense of any litigation which may be necessary to enforce our rights under any patent. Although we believe that the products we sell do not and will not infringe upon the patents or violate the proprietary rights of others, it is possible that such infringement or violation has occurred or may occur. We have investigated patents held by third parties of which we are aware and believe that our products and services do not infringe on the claims of these patents. Although we have not received notice of any other claims that our products or services are infringing, we cannot provide any assurances that our products and services do not infringe upon any third party patents, including the patents we have investigated. In the event that products we sell or services we provide are deemed to infringe upon the patents or proprietary rights of others, we could be required to modify our products and/or services or obtain a license for the manufacture, use and/or sale of such products and services. There can be no assurance that, in such an event, we would be able to do so in a timely manner, upon acceptable terms and conditions, or at all, and the failure to do any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect upon our business. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will have the financial or other resources necessary to defend against a patent infringement or proprietary rights violation action. In addition, if our products, services or proposed products or services are deemed to infringe upon the patents or proprietary rights of others, we could, under certain circumstances, become liable for damages or subject to an injunction, which could also have a material adverse effect on our business. Because we currently derive a majority of our revenues from a few software and service offerings, any decline in demand for these offerings could severely harm our ability to generate revenues. We currently derive a majority of our revenues from a limited number of software and service offerings. In addition, our focus on building our business is concentrated on markets for software and services where content integrity, workflow automation, electronic signatures, time and date stamping and web-based services are important to customers. As a result, we are particularly vulnerable to fluctuations in demand for these offerings, whether as a result of competition, product obsolescence, technological change, customer spending, or other factors. If our revenues derived from our software and service offerings were to decline significantly, our business and operating results would be adversely affected. Additionally, for the year ended June 30, 2010 we reported that one customer accounted for approximately 17% of our consolidated revenues. As a result, if our relationships with these or other significant customers were disrupted we could lose a significant percentage of our anticipated revenues which could have material adverse effect on our business. Some of our software and service offerings have long and unpredictable sales cycles, which may impact our quarterly operating results. Transactions for some of our software and service offerings require customers to undertake customized installations to integrate the solutions into their legacy systems and require them to modify existing business practices. The period from our initial contact with a potential customer until the execution of an agreement is difficult to predict and can be in excess of six months. The sales cycles for these transactions can be long and unpredictable due to a number of uncertainties such as: • customers’ budgetary constraints; • the need to educate potential customers about our software and service offerings; • the timing of customers’ budget cycles; 17 Table of Contents • delays caused by customers’ internal review processes; • customers’ willingness to invest resources and modify their network infrastructures to take advantage of our offerings; and • for sales to government customers, governmental regulatory, approval and purchasing requirements. We are unable to control or influence many of these factors. Further, we have experienced delays in the pace of adoption and use by our customers of our transaction-based offerings, such as Inscrybe Healthcare, which has adversely affected our earnings. We may experience similar delays with our other products and services and products and services currently under development. During the sales cycle and the implementation period, we may expend substantial time, effort and money preparing contract proposals, negotiating contracts and implementing solutions without receiving any related revenue. In addition, many of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short term, including personnel costs and technology and infrastructure costs. Accordingly, our inability to generate sufficient revenues from these offerings has a direct impact on our results of operations. The failure to properly manage our growth could cause our business to lose money. We are expanding our sales and marketing efforts in order to develop and pursue existing and potential market opportunities. This growth is expected to place a significant demand on management and operational resources. In order to manage growth effectively, we must implement and improve our operational systems and controls on a timely basis. If we fail to implement these systems and controls, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. Our software and web-based services and web site may be subject to intentional disruption. Although we believe we have sufficient controls in place to prevent intentional disruptions, such as software viruses specifically designed to impede the performance of our software and web-based services, we may be affected by such efforts in the future. Further, despite the implementation of security measures, this infrastructure or other systems that we interface with, including the Internet and related systems, may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, hackers, improper employee or contractor access, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems, resulting in the potential misappropriation of our proprietary information or interruptions of our services. Any compromise of our security, whether as a result of our own systems or systems that they interface with, could substantially disrupt our operations, harm our reputation and reduce demand for our services. Performance problems with our systems or system failures could cause us to lose business or incur liabilities. Our customer satisfaction and our business could be harmed if we experience transmission delays or failures or loss of data in the systems we use to provide services to our customers, including transaction-related services. These systems are complex and, despite testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that problems will not occur or that they will be detected and corrected promptly if they do occur. In providing these services, we rely on internal systems as well as communications and hosting services provided by third parties, such as the Internet. To operate without interruption, both we and the service providers we use must guard against: • damage from fire, power loss and other natural disasters; • communications failures; • software and hardware errors, failures or crashes; • security breaches, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems; and • other potential interruptions. 18 Table of Contents We have experienced periodic system interruptions in the past, and we cannot guarantee that they will not occur again. In the event of a catastrophic event at one of our data centers or any third party facility we use, we may experience an extended period of system unavailability, which could negatively impact our business. Further, if such an event caused the loss of stored data, it could have a material adverse impact on our business or cause us to incur material liabilities. Although we maintain insurance for our business, we cannot guarantee that our insurance will be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur or that this coverage will continue to be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts. In addition, some of our web-based services may, at times, be required to accommodate higher than expected volumes of traffic. At those times, we may experience slower response times or system failures. Any sustained or repeated interruptions or disruptions in these systems or slow down in their response times could damage our relationships with customers. Further, the Internet has experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, significant growth in the number of users and the amount of traffic. If the Internet continues to experience increased usage, the Internet infrastructure may be unable to support the demands placed on it which could harm its reliability and performance. Any significant interruptions in our services or increases in response time could result in a loss of potential or existing users of services and, if sustained or repeated, could reduce the attractiveness of our services. We are subject to product liability risks associated with the production, marketing and sale of products used in the healthcare industry. The production, marketing and sale of devices used in the health-care industry have inherent risks of liability in the event of product failure or claim of harm caused by product operation. Furthermore, even meritless claims of product liability may be costly to defend against. The commercialization of the telehealth device exposes us to such claims. These types of product liability claims may result in decreased demand for this product, injury to our reputation, related litigation costs; and substantial monetary awards to plaintiffs. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance, we may not have sufficient insurance coverage, and we may not be able to obtain sufficient coverage at a reasonable cost. Our inability to obtain product liability insurance at an acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could inhibit the commercialization of any products that we develop. If we are sued for any injury caused by our products or processes, then our liability could exceed our product liability insurance coverage and our total assets. We need to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements applicable to our telehealth product and our ability to generate revenue from this product is subject to our ability to obtain acceptable prices or an adequate level of reimbursement from payors of healthcare costs. Our telehealth product is a medical device that is subject to extensive regulation in the United States. Unless an exemption applies, each medical device that we wish to market in the United States must receive either 510(k) clearance or premarket approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, before the product can be sold. Either process can be lengthy and expensive. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance procedure, also known as “premarket notification,” is the process we have used for our current telehealth product. The regulatory clearance for our telehealth product provides for its use for its intended purposes. In addition, the manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion, distribution and record-keeping for approved products are subject to extensive regulation. If the FDA determines that our promotional materials or activities constitute promotion of an unapproved use or we otherwise fail to comply with other FDA regulations, we may be subject to regulatory enforcement actions, including a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine, suspensions, loss of regulatory clearance, product recalls or product seizures. In the more egregious cases, criminal sanctions, civil penalties, or disgorgement of profits are possible. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems may also result in restrictions on the marketing of our products, and could include voluntary or mandatory recall or withdrawal of products from the market. Further, we cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we will not be permitted to market our products and our business would suffer. 19 Table of Contents In addition, our ability to commercialize our telehealth product successfully will depend in part on the extent to which appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for the cost of this product are obtained by us or by our direct customers from governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. The ability of customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for their products and services from private and governmental payors is critical to the success of medical technology device companies as the availability of reimbursement affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. The cost containment measures that healthcare payors and providers are instituting and the effect of any healthcare reform could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from this product and our profitability. In addition, given ongoing federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of healthcare, the United States Congress and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on healthcare reform and the reform of the Medicare and Medicaid payment systems. While we cannot predict whether any proposed cost-containment measures will be adopted, the announcement or adoption of these proposals could reduce the price that we receive for our telehealth product in the future. We cannot predict the outcomes of any of legislative or regulatory efforts at reducing costs of providing healthcare and regulatory changes in this regard may have a material adverse effect on our business. Modifications to our current telehealth product may require new marketing clearances or approvals or require us to cease marketing or recall the modified products until such clearances or approvals are obtained. Any modification to an FDA-cleared medical device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change or modification in its intended use, requires a new FDA 510(k) clearance or, possibly, a premarket approval. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make its own determination as to whether a modification requires a new 510(k) clearance or premarket approval, but the FDA may review and disagree with any decision reached by the manufacturer. In the future, we may make modifications to our telehealth products and, in appropriate circumstances, determine that new clearance or approval is unnecessary. Regulatory authorities may disagree with our decisions not to seek new clearance or approval and may require us to obtain clearance or approval for modifications to our products. If that were to occur for a previously cleared or approved product, we may be required to cease marketing or recall the modified device until we obtain the necessary clearance or approval. Under these circumstances, we may also be subject to significant regulatory fines or other penalties. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. If our suppliers for our telehealth product fails to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, and other applicable postmarket requirements, our manufacturing operations could be disrupted, our product sales and profitability could suffer, and we may be subject to a wide variety of FDA enforcement actions. After a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply. We are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the FDA to determine our compliance with all regulatory requirements. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in the FDA or a court instituting a wide variety of enforcement actions against us, including a public warning letter; a recall of products; fines or civil penalties; seizure or detention of our products; withdrawing 510(k) clearance already granted to us; and criminal prosecution. The manufacturing processes of some of our suppliers must comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which governs the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, testing, manufacture, control, quality assurance, installation, servicing, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of medical devices. The FDA enforces the QSR through unannounced inspections. If one of our suppliers fails a QSR inspection, or if a corrective action plan adopted by a supplier is not sufficient, the FDA may bring an enforcement action, and our operations could be disrupted and our manufacturing delayed. We are also subject to the FDA’s general prohibition against promoting our products for unapproved or “off-label” uses, the FDA’s adverse event reporting requirements and the FDA’s reporting requirements for field correction or product removals. The FDA has recently placed increased emphasis on its scrutiny of compliance with the QSR 20 Table of Contents and these other postmarket requirements. If we or one of our suppliers violate the FDA’s requirements or fail to take adequate corrective action in response to any significant compliance issue raised by the FDA, the FDA can take various enforcement actions which could cause our product sales and profitability to suffer. Our software and services and other product offerings may not be accepted by the market, which would seriously harm our business. Demand and market acceptance for our currently available software and service and other product offerings remain subject to a high level of uncertainty. Achieving widespread acceptance of these or future offerings will continue to require substantial marketing efforts and the expenditure of significant funds to create and maintain brand recognition and customer demand for such offerings. Demand for our software, services and other product offerings depend on, among other things: • the perceived ability of our offerings to address real customer problems; • the perceived quality, price, ease-of-use and interoperability of our offerings as compared to our competitors’ offerings; • the market’s perception of the ease or difficulty in deploying our software or services, especially in complex, network environments; • the continued evolution of electronic commerce as a viable means of conducting business; • market acceptance and use of new technologies and standards; • the ability of network infrastructures to support an increasing number of users and services; • the pace of technological change and our ability to keep up with these changes; and • general economic conditions, which influence how much money our customers and potential customers are willing to allocate to their information technology budgets. There can be no assurance that adequate marketing arrangements will be made and continued for our software and services and other product offerings and there can be no assurance that any of these offerings will ever achieve or maintain widespread market acceptance or that such offerings will be profitable. If we cannot continuously enhance our software and web-based service offerings in response to rapid changes in the market, our business will be harmed. The software-based services industry and computer industry are characterized by extensive research and development efforts which result in the frequent introduction of new products and services which render existing products and services obsolete. Our ability to compete successfully in the future will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a technically competent research and development staff and our ability to adapt to technological changes in the industry and enhance and improve our software and web-based service offerings and successfully develop and market new offerings that meet the changing needs of our customers. Although we are dedicated to continued improvement of our offerings with a view towards satisfying market needs with the most advanced capabilities, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to do so on a regular basis and remain competitive with products offered by other manufacturers. At the present time, we do not have a targeted level of expenditures for research and development. We will evaluate all opportunities but believe the majority of our research and development will be devoted to enhancements of our existing software and web-based services. If our software and web-based service offerings are not competitive, our business will suffer. We are engaged in the highly competitive businesses of developing software and web-based workflow management services and telehealth solutions. These markets are continually evolving and, in some cases, subject to rapid technological change. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, product 21 Table of Contents development, marketing and other resources than we do. These organizations may be better known than we are and have more customers than we do. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against these organizations. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our markets include performance, ease of use, quality/reliability of our offerings, scalability, features and functionality, price and customer service and support. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully incorporate these factors into our software and web-based services and compete against current or future competitors or that competitive pressure we face will not harm our business. If we are unable to develop and market products to compete with the products of competitors, our business will be materially and adversely affected. Our business, including Inscrybe Healthcare and our telehealth appliance and service and our electronic signing solutions are relatively new business lines and although the level of competition for these offerings is uncertain at this point in time, the field of software-based solutions in which we compete is highly competitive. There can be no assurances, however, that any of our offerings will achieve market acceptance. We also expect that competition will increase as a result of industry consolidations and the formation of new companies with new, innovative offerings. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their software and service offerings to address the needs of our prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share, any of which could harm our business. Our software and web-based services are complex and are operated in a wide variety of computer configurations, which could result in errors or product failures. Our software and web-based services are complex and may contain undetected errors, failures or bugs that may arise when they are first introduced or when new versions are released. These offerings may be used in large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures in our software or services or may expose undetected errors, failures or bugs in such offerings. Our customers’ computer environments are often characterized by a wide variety of configurations that make pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors difficult and time-consuming. Despite testing by us and by others, errors, failures or bugs may not be found in new products or releases after commencement of commercial use. Errors, failures or bugs in our offerings could result in negative publicity, returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our software or services or claims by customers or others. Alleviating these problems could require significant expenditures of our capital and resources and could cause interruptions, delays or cessation of our licenses which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers and would adversely affect our financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows. Most of our license agreements with customers contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims. It is possible, however, that these provisions may not prove effective in limiting our liability. We have a significant amount of net operating loss carry forwards which we may not be able to utilize in certain circumstances. At June 30, 2010, we had net operating loss (“NOL”) carry forwards for federal income tax purposes of approximately $126,000,000 available to offset future taxable income. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, following an “ownership change,” special limitations apply to the use by a “loss corporation” of its (i) NOL carry forwards arising before the ownership change and (ii) net unrealized built-in losses (if such losses existed immediately before the ownership change and exceed a statutory threshold amount) recognized during the five years following the ownership change ((i) and (ii) are referred to collectively as the “Applicable Tax Attributes”). After an ownership change, the amount of the loss corporation’s taxable income for each post-change taxable year that may be offset by the Applicable Tax Attributes is limited to the product of the “long-term tax-exempt rate” (published by the IRS for the month of the ownership change) multiplied by the value of 22 Table of Contents the loss corporation’s stock (the “Section 382 Limitation”). To the extent that the loss corporation’s Section 382 Limitation in a given taxable year exceeds its taxable income for the year, that excess increases the Section 382 Limitation in future taxable years. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price is volatile and could decline. The price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. Our stock price during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 traded as low as $0.38 per share and as high as $1.81 per share. We cannot assure you that your initial investment in our common stock will not fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • quarterly variations in our operating results; • announcements we make regarding significant contracts, acquisitions, dispositions, strategic partnerships, or joint ventures; • additions or departures of key personnel; • the introduction of competitive offerings by existing or new competitors; • uncertainty about and customer confidence in the current economic conditions and outlook; • reduced demand for any given software or web-based service offering; and • sales of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general, including companies whose stock is listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Since we have not paid dividends on our common stock, you may not receive income from this investment. We have not paid any dividends on our common stock since our inception and do not contemplate or anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Earnings, if any, will be used to finance the development and expansion of our business. Trading in our stock over the last twelve months has been limited, so investors may not be able to sell as much stock as they want at prevailing prices. The average daily trading volume in our common stock for the twelve months ended August 31, 2010 was approximately 116,300 shares. If limited trading in our stock continues, it may be difficult for investors to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. Moreover, the market price for shares of our common stock may be made more volatile because of the relatively low volume of trading in our common stock. When trading volume is low, significant price movement can be caused by the trading in a relatively small number of shares. Volatility in our common stock could cause stockholders to incur substantial losses. Authentidate is currently not in compliance with The NASDAQ Capital Market $1.00 minimum bid price requirement and failure to regain and maintain compliance with this standard could result in delisting and adversely affect the market price and liquidity of our common stock. Our common stock is currently traded on The NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “ADAT”. If we fail to meet any of the continued listing standards of The NASDAQ Capital Market, our common stock will be 23 Table of Contents delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market. These continued listing standards include specifically enumerated criteria, such as a $1.00 minimum closing bid price. On May 26, 2010, we received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market advising that the company did not meet the minimum $1.00 per share bid price requirement for continued inclusion on The NASDAQ Capital Market pursuant to NASDAQ Marketplace Listing Rule 5550(a)(2). The letter stated that the company had until November 22, 2010 to regain compliance. If the company does not regain compliance during this period it will be eligible for an additional 180 calendar days to comply with the minimum bid price requirement, provided that it meets the initial listing criteria other than the minimum bid price requirement. To regain compliance with the applicable listing rule, the closing bid price of the company’s common stock must meet or exceed $1.00 per share for a minimum of ten consecutive business days during the 180 day grace period. If this occurs, Nasdaq will provide us with written notification of compliance. If the company does not regain compliance during the initial grace period and is not eligible for an additional grace period, NASDAQ will provide written notice that the company’s common stock is subject to delisting. In that event, the company may appeal such determination to a hearings panel. There can be no guarantee that the company will be able to regain compliance with the Listing Rule. Further, this deficiency notice relates exclusively to our bid price deficiency. We may be delisted during the applicable grace periods for failure to maintain compliance with any other listing requirement which may occur. If our common stock were to be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market, trading of our common stock most likely will be conducted in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities such as the OTC Bulletin Board. Such trading will reduce the market liquidity of our common stock. As a result, an investor would find it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock. If our common stock is delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market and the trading price remains below $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock might also become subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Exchange Act, which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trade involving a stock defined as a “penny stock” (generally, any equity security not listed on a national securities exchange or quoted on Nasdaq that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions). Many brokerage firms are reluctant to recommend low-priced stocks to their clients. Moreover, various regulations and policies restrict the ability of shareholders to borrow against or “margin” low-priced stocks, and declines in the stock price below certain levels may trigger unexpected margin calls. Additionally, because brokers’ commissions on low-priced stocks generally represent a higher percentage of the stock price than commissions on higher priced stocks, the current price of the common stock can result in an individual shareholder paying transaction costs that represent a higher percentage of total share value than would be the case if our share price were higher. This factor may also limit the willingness of institutions to purchase our common stock. Finally, the additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements could discourage broker-dealers from facilitating trades in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the stock and the ability of investors to trade our common stock. Additional financings could result in dilution to existing stockholders and otherwise adversely impact the rights of our common stockholders. Additional financings that we may require in the future will dilute the percentage ownership interests of our stockholders and may adversely affect our earnings and net book value per share. We have the authority to issue additional shares of common stock and preferred stock, as well as additional classes or series of warrants or debt obligations which may be convertible into any one or more classes or series of ownership interests. We are authorized to issue 75 million shares of common stock and 5 million shares of preferred stock. Subject to compliance with the requirements of the Nasdaq Stock Market, such securities may be issued without the approval or other consent of our stockholders. We filed a “shelf” registration statement on Form S-3 with the Securities and Exchange Commission in August 2009, which was declared effective by the Commission on September 30, 2009. Under this registration statement, we may sell, from time to time in one or more public offerings, shares of our common stock, shares of our preferred stock, debt securities or warrants to purchase common stock, preferred stock or debt securities, or 24 Table of Contents any combination of such securities. After giving effect to our registered direct offering completed in December 2009, there is approximately $36 million available for future issuances under this registration statement, subject to SEC limitations. This disclosure shall not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy the securities, nor shall there by any sale of these securities in any jurisdiction in which an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. Any offer of the securities will be solely by means of the prospectus included in the registration statement and one or more prospectus supplements that will be issued at the time of the offering. In the event that any future financing should be in the form of, be convertible into or exchangeable for, equity securities, and upon the conversion or exercise of such securities, investors may experience additional dilution. Moreover, in addition to the above referenced shares of common stock, we may issue undesignated shares of preferred stock, the terms of which may be fixed by our board of directors and which terms may be preferential to the interests of our common stockholders. We have issued preferred stock in the past, and our board of directors has the authority, without stockholder approval, to create and issue one or more additional series of such preferred stock and to determine the voting, dividend and other rights of holders of such preferred stock. Any debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants that impact our ability to conduct our business. The issuance of any of such series of preferred stock or debt securities may have an adverse effect on the holders of common stock. Currently, the company has no definitive agreements with any third parties for financing transactions and we may not be able to secure any additional financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The exercise of our outstanding options and warrants, or conversion of our outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock, may depress our stock price and dilute your ownership of the company. As of June 30, 2010, the following options and warrants were outstanding: • Stock options to purchase approximately 4,274,000 shares of common stock at exercise prices ranging from $0.39 to $7.28 per share, not all of which are immediately exercisable. The weighted average exercise price of the outstanding stock options is $3.09 per share. These stock options are employee and non-executive director options. • Immediately exercisable warrants to purchase approximately 720,000 shares of common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $1.04 per share. • Stock options to purchase 375,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $3.25 per share to an independent consultant which are exercisable upon achieving certain sales levels. In addition, there are currently outstanding 28,000 shares of our Series B Preferred Stock. The holder of the Series B Preferred Stock may convert these shares into shares of our common stock at a conversion price equal to $1.40 per share. Accordingly, the outstanding 28,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock are presently convertible into an aggregate of 500,000 shares of our common stock which will be available for immediate resale in accordance with the provisions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. To the extent that these securities are exercised or converted, dilution to our shareholders will occur. Moreover, the terms upon which we will be able to obtain additional equity capital may be adversely affected, since the holders of these securities can be expected to exercise or convert them at a time when we would, in all likelihood, be able to obtain any needed capital on terms more favorable to us than the exercise and conversion terms provided by those securities. Further, in the event the conversion price of the Series B Preferred Stock is lower than the actual trading price on the day of conversion, the holder could immediately sell all of its converted common shares, which would have a dilutive effect on the value of the outstanding common shares. Furthermore, the significant downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock as Series B Preferred Stock holders converted these securities and sell the common shares received on conversion could encourage short sales by the holders of Series B Preferred Stock or other shareholders. This would place 25 Table of Contents further downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. Even the mere perception of eventual sales of common shares issued on the conversion of the Series B Preferred Stock could lead to a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage or prevent a takeover, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; and • advance notice provisions in connection with stockholder proposals that may prevent or hinder any attempt by our stockholders to bring business to be considered by our stockholders at a meeting or replace our board of directors. Together, these provisions may delay, deter or prevent a, change in control of our company, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved staff comments. 