RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Operations Our results of operations and financial condition are dependent on the El Cajon hydroelectric project. In March 2003, the Mexican Federal Electricity Commission (Comision Federal de Electricidad, or CFE) awarded a U.S.$748 million (subsequently increased to U.S.$814 million) contract for the engineering, procurement and construction of the El Cajon hydroelectric project to Constructora Internacional de Infraestructura, S.A. de C.V., or CIISA, a consortium in which two of our subsidiaries hold a combined 75% interest. The terms of the contract require that the contractor secure financing for its project costs and limit disbursements during the construction phase to 80% of the cash cost of the certified work performed. Because the CFE will pay for the project upon completion, and the financing obtained by CIISA will cover only the project’s cash costs, we do not expect this project to generate any significant cash flow to us until completion, which is currently expected to occur in 2007. However, because we recognize revenues from our construction projects under the percentage of completion accounting method, the El Cajon hydroelectric project represented a material portion of our revenues in recent years, and is expected to continue to generate a material portion of our revenues in 2006. The El Cajon hydroelectric project generated Ps.4,117, Ps.3,069 million and Ps.922 million of revenue, or 22%, 28% and 9% of total revenue, in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The El Cajon hydroelectric project is expected to continue to represent a substantial portion of our receivables and our indebtedness. At December 31, 2005, we had Ps.7,529 million in contract receivables and Ps.6,110 million of debt on our balance sheet relating to the El Cajon hydroelectric project. See note 7 to our financial statements. We have recognized revenue from the El Cajon project based on the percentage of completion method of accounting, which relies on certain estimates and assumptions. Since a substantial majority of the project’s revenues and costs have been earned as of June 2006, any decrease in the revenues expected to be earned from the project would likely have a material impact on our operating profit in 2006 and 2007, since the costs corresponding to those revenues have already been substantially or fully incurred. Financing requirements for the El Cajon hydroelectric project may further constrain our liquidity. Our subsidiary CIISA is required to post a performance bond or a letter of credit for the benefit of CFE equal to 10% of the value of the work to be performed each calendar year. CIISA obtained the U.S.$30 million letter of credit required for 2004, the U.S.$30 million letter of credit for 2005, and the U.S.$10 million letter of credit for 2006 and is required to obtain a U.S.$1 million letter of credit for 2007. The letters of credit for any given year must be obtained by December 31 of the preceding year. As owners of 75% of CIISA, we are required to obtain 75% of the aforementioned letters of credit, with the balance to be provided by the other shareholders of CIISA. In addition, we may be required to contribute additional capital to finance the portion of cash costs that are not disbursed by the CFE. In June 2006, we obtained a U.S.$60 million bank loan to finance the additional capital that we may be required to contribute to CIISA. CIISA obtained permanent financing for the El Cajon hydroelectric project in the first quarter of 2004, consisting of a U.S.$452.4 million syndicated loan and a U.S.$230 million bond. The syndicated loan and bond contain various restrictive covenants typical for project financing. The permanent financing required that CIISA obtain U.S.$26 million in letters of credit to be used as collateral for the financing. The terms of the syndicated loan also include a U.S.$53 million contingent facility that can be drawn upon to cover increases in the cost of the project or if CFE requests that additional works be done on the project, and a U.S.$28 million cost-overrun facility that can be drawn upon to cover cost-overruns. If CIISA does not meet certain minimum financial ratios based on a percentage of certified work completed on the project, disbursements under the cost-overrun facility are contingent upon CIISA obtaining additional letters of credit. There can be no assurance that CIISA will not be required to obtain additional letters of credit in the future or, if so required, that it will be able to obtain such letters of credit. Additionally, in 2007 CIISA will be required to post a two-year quality guaranty for the power generation units and related works on the El Cajon hydroelectric project in the amount of U.S.$12 million if the guaranty is in the form of a bond or U.S.$6 million if the guaranty is in the form of a letter of credit. 9 Table of Contents The increase in the cost of steel may adversely affect the El Cajon hydroelectric project. Under the terms of the El Cajon contract, we are required to bear the risk of any increases in the cost of raw materials from the time we entered into the contract, other than those which under Mexican law applicable to public works contracts are a consequence of general, unforeseeable economic circumstances that are out of the parties’ control. Market prices for steel rods and steel slabs, which are the steel products predominately used in our construction of the El Cajon hydroelectric project, are currently approximately 50% and 35%, respectively, above the market prices that were prevailing at the time the bid for the project was prepared. On May 18, 2004, the Mexican Comptroller’s Office (Secretaria de la Funcion Publica) issued a decree recognizing that the aforementioned increase in steel prices constituted a general, unforeseeable economic circumstance that was out of the control of the government’s contractors (including our subsidiary CIISA). The Comptroller’s Office decree authorized government agencies that are party to construction contracts affected by the increase in steel prices to amend their existing construction contracts to account for the extraordinary price increase. Based on the authority granted by the decree, CIISA and CFE entered into an amendment to the El Cajon contract, which increased the total amount CIISA will be paid upon completion of the project by approximately U.S.$43 million, plus value added tax, the sum of which is equivalent to approximately 5.7% of the contract amount. We will, however, be required to finance the additional costs associated with the increase in steel prices until the completion of the El Cajon contract. We have used the U.S.$53 million contingent facility obtained as part of the project’s permanent financing to finance the additional costs associated with the increase in the price of steel. We may be required to use the U.S.$28 million receivables facility to finance any additional costs associated with steel price increases, which we may use only when the ratio of accumulated certifications to accumulated disbursements is greater than 1.2:1.0. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional sources of funding to finance the increase in the cost of steel, or that the failure to obtain such financing will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our performance is tied to Mexican public-sector spending on infrastructure and industrial facilities. Our performance historically has been tied to Mexican public-sector spending on infrastructure facilities and to our ability to bid successfully for such contracts. Mexican public-sector spending, in turn, generally has been dependent on the state of the Mexican economy. In the past, public sector spending has tended to decrease in election years, and we expect this will occur in 2006. A decrease in public-sector spending as a result of a deterioration of the Mexican economy, changes in Mexican governmental policy, or for other reasons are likely to have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Competition from foreign and domestic construction companies may adversely affect our results of operations. The market for construction services in Mexico is highly competitive. As a result of the integration of the Mexican economy into the global economy, we must compete with foreign construction companies on most of the industrial and infrastructure projects on which we bid in Mexico. We believe that competition from foreign companies has adversely affected the Mexican construction industry’s operating margins, including our own, as foreign competition has driven down pricing and allowed sponsors of many infrastructure construction and industrial construction projects to require contractors to provide construction on a “turnkey” basis, which increase our financial risks. Many of our foreign competitors have better access to capital and greater financial and other resources, which affords them a competitive advantage in bidding for such projects. See “