ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS As provided for under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we wish to caution shareholders and investors that the following important factors, among others discussed throughout this Report on Form 10-K, in some cases have affected and in some cases could affect our actual results of operations and cause such results to differ materially from those anticipated in forward looking statements made herein. Risks Related to Our Business Failure to increase our revenue and keep our expenses consistent with revenues could prevent us from achieving and maintaining profitability. We incurred net losses of approximately $17,823,000, $19,184,000, and $15,669,000 for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We have expended, and will continue to be required to expend, substantial funds to pursue research and development projects and enhance marketing and sales efforts for our Security Software Solutions products and otherwise operate our business. Therefore, we will need to generate higher revenues from our Security Software Solutions segment to achieve and maintain profitability and cannot assure you that we will be profitable in any future period. Our prospects should be considered in light of the difficulties frequently encountered in connection with the establishment of a new business line, which characterizes our Security Software Solutions segment, such as the difficulty in creating a viable market, the significant related development and marketing costs and the overall competitive environment in which we operate. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve profitable operations in future operating periods. Our capital requirements are significant and we have historically financed our operations through private placements of securities. Our capital requirements have been and will continue to be significant. We have been substantially dependent upon private placements of our securities and on short-term and long-term loans from lending institutions to fund such requirements. We are expending significant amounts of capital to develop, promote and market the products and services in our Security Software Solutions segment, including our CareFax™ solution and the products and services offered through our Authentidate subsidiaries. Due to these expenditures, we have incurred significant losses to date. We used approximately $13,109,000, $10,632,000, and $6,660,000 in cash for operating activities for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. We expect the proceeds received from our February 2004 private financing, in which we raised approximately $69,000,000 in net proceeds, to satisfy our cash needs for the foreseeable future. No assurances can be given that we will be able to attain sales levels and support our costs through revenues derived from operations. If we are unable to attain projected sales levels for our Security Software Solutions segment, it may be necessary to raise additional capital to fund operations and to meet our obligations in the future. If the United States Postal Service cancels our agreement, we will need to incur additional costs in our efforts to successfully commercialize this technology. We entered into the strategic alliance agreement with the United States Postal Service (USPS) to incorporate our content authentication service into their Electronic Postmark ® Service (EPM). The USPS has the right to cancel the contract in the event we are unable to perform our obligations, including recognizing sufficient revenues, as required by the agreement. Further, the USPS has the right to terminate the agreement at its convenience. When we initially entered into our agreement with the USPS in July 2002, we agreed on certain performance metrics. The original revenue metric had not been attained and in September 2004 the USPS notified us of a failure to comply with the revenue metric, which commenced a six month period to achieve compliance with the metrics. We continue to hold discussions with the USPS to agree upon a modification of our arrangement with the USPS. On May 27, 2005, the USPS delivered a second notice stating that we had failed to attain the performance metrics required by the strategic alliance agreement during the period February 2005 through April 2005. In its notice, the USPS advised us that although it intended to exercise its right to terminate the strategic alliance agreement if we’re unable to cure this default, it was willing to discuss further plans that we had to attain the performance metrics. On October 5, 2005, we received a third notice from the USPS 8 Table of Contents confirming that we continue to fail to attain the performance metrics required by the strategic alliance agreement. However, the USPS also stated that it has elected not to terminate the agreement at this time and will continue to fulfill its obligations under the agreement as long as it remains in effect. Our strategic alliance agreement with the USPS may also be adversely affected by pending legislation regarding the USPS. The activities in which the USPS may engage, including the provision of the EPM, may be regulated or limited by legislation currently pending in the United States Congress. The eventual outcome of this legislative action can not be determined at this time, and there can be no assurance the USPS will be authorized continue its current level of support of the EPM in the future. We have been in negotiations with the USPS to amend the agreement and develop a new arrangement. No assurances, however, can be given that we will be successful in completing these negotiations or that the USPS will not terminate the agreement at any time,in which case we will not generate any revenue from the sales of EPMs. Further, if we are unable to commence realizing revenue from the EPM product, we may incur additional costs in exploring and developing alternative avenues in which to successfully market certain of our Security Software Solutions products. We rely to a certain extent on our products’ compatibility with Microsoft Corporation’s products for the development of a market for the USPS EPM. On October 21, 2003 we launched an interface with Microsoft Office to provide for an interface with the USPS EPM. We cannot provide assurance that we will achieve significant sales from this relationship. Microsoft is under no obligation for any purchase commitments or guarantees and the agreement does not obligate Microsoft to purchase USPS EPM transactions. Further, Microsoft may terminate this initiative at its convenience. In the event Microsoft elects to terminate this relationship, it could impair our ability to develop a market for our content authentication business and retard the adoption of the USPS EPM. We have been named as a party to several class action and derivative action lawsuits, and we may be named in additional litigation, all of which could require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses. An unfavorable outcome in one or more of these lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As described in detail at Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” several purported class action complaints were filed in federal court alleging that we and certain of our current and former officers and directors violated the federal securities laws. Subsequently, four purported shareholder derivative actions were filed against certain current and former officers and directors based on allegations substantially similar to those set forth in the purported class actions. The expense of defending such litigation may be substantial and the time required to defend the actions could divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, an unfavorable outcome in such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. Our success is dependent on the performance and integration of our new management and the cooperation, performance and retention of our executive officers and key employees. Our business and operations are substantially dependent on the performance and integration of the new additions to our senior management team as well as the performance of our other senior managers and executive officers. These persons have worked together for only a short period of time. In addition, during the second half of fiscal 2006 we announced the appointment of our new Chief Financial Officer and the departures of our former Chief Financial Officer and our Executive Vice President-Chief Administrative Officer. Inherent with changes in management is a change in understanding of the control environment, the business processes and internal controls. If we are unable to successfully integrate new executives into our operations, it may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance on any of our executive officers. The loss of one or several key employees could seriously harm our business. Any reorganization or reduction in the size of our employee base could harm our ability to attract and retain other valuable employees critical to the success of our business. If we lose key personnel or fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully, our ability to manage our business could be impaired. Our future success depends upon the continued service of our key management, technical, sales, finance, and other critical personnel. Other than our CEO and CFO, our key personnel do not have employment agreements and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them. Key personnel have left our company in the past and there likely will be additional departures of key personnel from time to time in the future. The loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, and the results of our 9 Table of Contents operations. In addition, hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement sales and other personnel could be time consuming, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future revenues. Our reported financial results could be adversely affected by changes in financial accounting standards or by the application of existing or future accounting standards to our business as it evolves. For example, accounting for employee stock options under FAS 123R has had a material impact on our consolidated results of operations and earnings per share. As a result of the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the review of accounting policies by the SEC and national and international accounting standards bodies, the frequency of accounting policy changes may accelerate. For example, the FASB has issued FAS123(R) that requires us to adopt a different method of determining and accounting for the compensation expense of our employee stock options (see below). This and other possible changes to accounting standards, could adversely affect our reported results of operations although not necessarily our cash flows. Further, accounting policies affecting software revenue recognition have been the subject of frequent interpretations, which could significantly affect the way we account for revenue related to our products. As we enhance, expand and diversify our business and product offerings, the application of existing or future financial accounting standards, particularly those relating to the way we account for revenue, could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results although not necessarily on our cash flows. As of July 1, 2005, we adopted FAS 123(R) which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based compensation based on estimated fair values. As a result, our operating results for fiscal 2006 contain, and our operating results for future periods will contain, a charge for share-based compensation related to employee stock options. The application of FAS 123(R) requires the use of an option-pricing model to determine the fair value of share-based payment awards. This determination of fair value is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, our expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, and actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. As a result of the adoption of FAS 123(R), our losses during fiscal 2006 have been higher than they would have been, had we not been required to adopt FAS 123(R). This will continue to be the case for future periods. We cannot predict the effect that this adverse impact on our reported operating results will have on the trading price of our common stock. If the carrying value of our long-lived assets is not recoverable, an impairment loss must be recognized which would adversely affect our financial results. We will evaluate our long-lived assets, including property and equipment, goodwill, acquired product rights, and other intangible assets, whenever events or circumstances occur which indicate that these assets might be impaired. Goodwill is evaluated annually for impairment at the end of each fiscal year, regardless of events and circumstances. In fiscal 2005 we recorded an impairment charge of approximately $4,800,000 for goodwill and other long-term intangible assets. As of June 30, 2006, we had approximately $7,300,000 of goodwill remaining from our acquisition of Authentidate International, AG. We will continue to evaluate the recoverability of the carrying amount of our long-lived assets, and we may incur substantial impairment charges, which could adversely affect our financial results. We have incurred significant additional costs concerning our international operations and may incur additional costs in the future. We have incurred substantial costs in supporting the operation of our German subsidiary, Authentidate International, AG. In March 2005, we entered into a new two-year employment agreement with Mr. Jan Wendenburg, the Chief Executive Officer of Authentidate International, pursuant to which he receives a base salary of approximately, $257,000 through March 2007, assuming current exchange rates. Further, for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2005 and 2006, we advanced or made capital investments of approximately $2,300,000 to this subsidiary. We cannot provide any assurance that we will recoup any of these amounts from this subsidiary. We expect to incur additional costs in the future in connection with the operations of this subsidiary. Developing and implementing new or updated products and services may take longer and cost more than expected. We rely on a combination of internal development, strategic relationships, licensing and acquisitions to develop our products and services. The cost of developing new services and technology solutions, such as CareFax™, is inherently difficult to estimate. Our development and implementation of proposed products and services may take longer than originally expected, require more testing than originally anticipated and require the acquisition of additional personnel and other resources. If we are unable to develop new or updated products and services on a timely basis and implement them without significant disruptions to the existing systems and processes of our customers, we may lose potential sales and harm our relationships with current or potential customers. New or updated products and services will not become profitable unless they achieve sufficient levels of market acceptance, which may require significant efforts and costs. 10 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that customers and potential customers will accept from us new or updated products and services. The future results of our Software Security Solutions segment will depend, in significant part, on the success of new products and services. Current and potential customers may choose to use similar products and services offered by our competitors or may not purchase new or updated products or services, especially when they are initially offered and if they require changes in equipment or workflow. For services we are developing or may develop in the future, there can be no assurance that we will attract sufficient customers or that such services will generate sufficient revenues to cover the costs of developing, marketing and providing those services. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that any pricing strategy that we implement for any new products and services will be economically viable or acceptable to the target markets. Failure to achieve broad penetration in target markets with respect to new or updated products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects. Further, achieving market acceptance for new or updated products and services is likely to require substantial marketing efforts and expenditure of significant funds to create awareness and demand by potential customers. We do not have patents on all the technology we use, which could harm our competitive position. As described above under the caption “Patents and Trademarks”, on May 2, 2006, we were issued our first U.S. patent. We also have two issued foreign patents, and seven U.S. and nine foreign patent applications pending relating to the technology and business processes underlying our Security Software Solutions applications. However, some of the technology embodied in some of our current products cannot be patented. We have registered the trademarks “Authentidate,” “CareCert,” “DocStar” and the DocStar logo in the US and the trademark “Authentidate” in Germany and Europe. We have also sought to register a number of additional trademarks in the US and certain foreign markets, including “Authentimark” and “CareFax”. We continue to take steps to protect our intellectual property rights including filing additional trademark and patent applications where appropriate. We rely on confidentiality agreements with our key employees to the extent we deem it to be necessary. We further intend to file patent applications for any new products we may develop, to the extent that we believe that any technology included in such products is patentable. There can be no assurance that any patents in fact, will be issued or that any such patents that do issue will be effective to protect our products and services from duplication by other manufacturers or developers or to prevent our competitors from offering similar products and services. Other companies operating within our business segments may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or otherwise obtain access to our know-how, much of which is maintained as trade secrets. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to afford the expense of any litigation which may be necessary to enforce our rights under any patent. Although we believe that the products we sell do not and will not infringe upon the patents or violate the proprietary rights of others, it is possible that such infringement or violation has occurred or may occur. On August 25, 2005, we became aware of an action filed against us entitled TimeCertain LLC vs. Authentidate Holding Corporation, Authentidate, Inc. and NCipher Inc. The plaintiff in this matter has claimed that our products and systems incorporating secure time-stamping technology, including but not limited to the USPS Electronic Postmark system, infringes certain of its patent rights. We have responded to this complaint and are vigorously defending against this action (for additional information, see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”). We have investigated other patents held by third parties of which we are aware and believe that our products and services do not infringe on the claims of these patents. Although we have not received notice of any other claims that our products or services are infringing, we can not provide any assurances that our products and services do not infringe upon any third party patents, including the patents we have investigated. As described under the caption “Legal Proceedings,” we are currently defending a claim by Shore Venture Group, in which it alleges, among other things, rights under one of our patent applications and damages in connection with an alleged copyright infringement. Prior to the commencement of this case, we had conducted extensive settlement negotiations with Shore Venture in an effort to resolve all claims between the parties. The case which was brought in federal court has been stayed in favor of arbitration. Shore Venture has not yet initiated an arbitration proceeding. We continue to defend this action vigorously. In the event that products we sell or services we provide are deemed to infringe upon the patents or proprietary rights of others, we could be required to modify our products and/or services or obtain a license for the manufacture, use and/or sale of such products and services. There can be no assurance that, in such an event, we would be able to do so in a timely manner, upon acceptable terms and conditions, or at all, and the failure to do any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect upon our business. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will have the financial or other resources necessary to defend against a patent infringement or proprietary rights violation action. In addition, if our products, services or proposed products or services are deemed to infringe upon the patents or proprietary rights of others, we could, under certain circumstances, become liable for damages or subject to an injunction, which could also have a material adverse effect on our business. Because we derive a majority of our license revenues from sales of a few products, any decline in demand for these products could severely harm our ability to generate revenues. We derive a majority of our revenues from a limited number of software products and solutions. In addition, our focus on building our Security Software Solutions segment software products is concentrated within the market for products and solutions designed to provide content integrity and workflow automation. As a result, we are particularly vulnerable to fluctuations in demand for these 11 Table of Contents products, whether as a result of competition, product obsolescence, technological change, customer spending, or other factors. If our revenues derived from these software products were to decline significantly, our business and operating results would be adversely affected. Some of our products and solutions have long and unpredictable sales cycles, which may impact our quarterly operating results. Transactions for some of our products, including our Security Software Solutions segment, require customers to undertake customized installations to integrate the solutions into their legacy systems and require them to modify existing business practices. The period from our initial contact with a potential customer until the execution of an agreement is difficult to predict and can be in excess of six months. The sales cycles for these transactions can be long and unpredictable due to a number of uncertainties such as: • customers’ budgetary constraints; • the need to educate potential customers about our products’ capabilities; • the timing of customers’ budget cycles; • delays caused by customers’ internal review processes; • customers’ willingness to invest resources and modify their network infrastructures to take advantage of our products; and • for sales to government customers, governmental regulatory, approval and purchasing requirements. We are unable to control or influence many of these factors. Further, we have experienced delays in the pace of adoption and use by our customers of our transaction-based offerings, such as CareCert™ and CareFax™, which has adversely affected our earnings. During the sales cycle and the implementation period, we may expend substantial time, effort and money preparing contract proposals, negotiating contracts and implementing solutions without receiving any related revenue. In addition, many of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short term, including personnel costs and technology and infrastructure costs. Accordingly, our inability to generate sufficient revenues from these offerings has a direct impact on our results of operations. The failure to properly manage our growth could cause our business to lose money. We are expanding our marketing and distribution efforts for our Security Software Solutions segment in order to develop and pursue existing and potential market opportunities. This growth is expected to place a significant demand on management and operational resources. In order to manage growth effectively, we must implement and improve our operational systems and controls on a timely basis. If we fail to implement these systems and controls, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be materially and adversely affected. Our software products and web site may be subject to intentional disruption. Although we believe we have sufficient controls in place to prevent intentional disruptions, such as software viruses specifically designed to impede the performance of our products, we may be affected by such efforts in the future. Further, despite the implementation of security measures, this infrastructure or other systems that we interface with, including the Internet and related systems, may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, hackers, improper employee or contractor access, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems, resulting in the potential misappropriation of our proprietary information or interruptions of our services. Any compromise of our security, whether as a result of our own systems or systems that they interface with, could substantially disrupt our operations, harm our reputation and reduce demand for our services. Performance problems with our systems or system failures could cause us to lose business or incur liabilities. Our customer satisfaction and our business could be harmed if we experience transmission delays or failures or loss of data in the systems we use to provide services to our customers, including transaction-related services such as CareFax™ and CareCert™. These systems are complex and, despite testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that problems will not occur or that they will be detected and corrected promptly if they do occur. In providing these services, we rely on internal systems as well as communications and hosting services provided by third parties, such as the Internet. To operate without interruption, both we and the service providers we use must guard against: • damage from fire, power loss and other natural disasters; • communications failures; • software and hardware errors, failures or crashes; 12 Table of Contents • security breaches, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems; and • other potential interruptions. We have experienced periodic system interruptions in the past, and we cannot guarantee that they will not occur again. In the event of a catastrophic event at one of our data centers or any third party facility we use, we may experience an extended period of system unavailability, which could negatively impact our business. Further, if such an event caused the loss of stored data, it could have a material adverse impact on our business or cause us to incur material liabilities. Although we maintain insurance for our business, we cannot guarantee that our insurance will be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur or that this coverage will continue to be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts. In addition, some of our Web-based services may, at times, be required to accommodate higher than expected volumes of traffic. At those times, we may experience slower response times or system failures. Any sustained or repeated interruptions or disruptions in these systems or increase in their response times could damage our relationships with customers. Further, the Internet has experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, significant growth in the number of users and the amount of traffic. If the Internet continues to experience increased usage, the Internet infrastructure may be unable to support the demands placed on it which could harm its reliability and performance. Any significant interruptions in our services or increases in response time could result in a loss of potential or existing users of services and, if sustained or repeated, could reduce the attractiveness of our services. Our security software products and solutions may not be accepted by the market, which would seriously harm our business. Demand and market acceptance for our software security offerings remain subject to a high level of uncertainty. Achieving widespread acceptance of these products will continue to require substantial marketing efforts and the expenditure of significant funds to create and maintain brand recognition and customer demand for such products. Demand for our products depends on, among other things: • the perceived ability of our products to address real customer problems; • the perceived quality, price, ease-of-use and interoperability of our products as compared to our competitors’ products; • the market’s perception of how easy or difficult it is to deploy our products, especially in complex, network environments; • the continued evolution of electronic commerce as a viable means of conducting business; • market acceptance and use of new technologies and standards; • the ability of network infrastructures to support an increasing number of users and services; • the pace of technological change and our ability to keep up with these changes; • general economic conditions, which, influence how much money our customers and potential customers are willing to allocate to their information technology budgets. There can be no assurance that adequate marketing arrangements will be made and continued for such products and there can be no assurance that any of these products will ever achieve or maintain widespread market acceptance or that the sale of such products will be profitable. If we cannot continuously enhance our products in response to rapid changes in the market, our business will be harmed. The software-based services industry and computer industry are characterized by extensive research and development efforts which result in the frequent introduction of new products which render existing products obsolete. Our ability to compete successfully in the future will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a technically competent research and development staff and our ability to adapt to technological changes in the industry and enhance and improve existing products and successfully develop and market new products that meet the changing needs of our customers. Although we are dedicated to continued research and development of our products with a view towards offering products with the most advanced capabilities, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to develop new products on a regular basis which will be competitive with products offered by other manufacturers. At the present time, we do not have a targeted level of expenditures for research and development. We will evaluate all opportunities but believe the majority of our research and development will be devoted to enhancements of our existing products. Technological improvements in new products that we and our competitors offer, as well as the general decline in the economy and other factors, have resulted in recent declines in retail prices for computer products. As competitive pressures have increased, 13 Table of Contents many companies have ceased operation and liquidated inventories, further increasing downward pricing pressure. Such declines have, in the past, and may in the future, reduce our profit margins If our products are not competitive, our business will suffer. Authentidate Holding Corp. and its subsidiaries are engaged in the highly competitive businesses of developing software-based workflow automation and authentication products, developing document imaging software and distributing turn-key document imaging systems, and reselling computer hardware and software as well as technical support services for such businesses. These markets are also continually evolving and, in some cases, subject to rapid technological change. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and other resources than we do. These organizations may be better known than we are and have more customers than we do. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against these organizations. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our markets include fault-tolerance, reliability, performance, ease of use, scalability, manageability, price and customer service and support. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully incorporate these factors into our products and to compete against current or future competitors or that competitive pressure we face will not harm our business. If we are unable to develop and market products to compete with the products of competitors, our business will be materially and adversely affected. The document imaging business is competitive and we compete with major manufacturers. Many of these companies have substantially more experience, greater sales, as well as greater financial and distribution resources than do we. Our Security Software Solutions segment, including CareFax™, the USPS EPM, our electronic signing solutions and CareCert™ are relatively new business lines and although the level of competition across the product line is unknown at this point in time, the field of software-based security solutions is highly competitive. There can be no assurances, however, that any of these products, including the service offered through the USPS, will achieve market acceptance. Our Systems Integration segment is engaged in the highly competitive business of systems integration, computer services and computer reselling. We compete with many small and local companies which provide similar technical services to those offered by us. Additionally, we must compete with other computer resellers, many of whom have greater financial and technical resources. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with these competitors. We also expect that competition will increase as a result of industry consolidations and the formation of new companies with new, innovative product offerings. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share, any of which could harm our business. Our software products are complex and are operated in a wide variety of computer configurations, which could result in errors or product failures. Our software products, including our Security Software Solutions products and Document Management Solutions products are complex and may contain undetected errors, failures or bugs that may arise when they are first introduced or when new versions are released. These products may be installed and used in large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures in our products or may expose undetected errors, failures or bugs in our products. Our customers’ computer environments are often characterized by a wide variety of configurations that make pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors difficult and time-consuming. Despite testing by us and by others, errors, failures or bugs may not be found in new products or releases after commencement of commercial shipments. Errors, failures or bugs in our products could result in negative publicity, product returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products or claims by customers or others. Alleviating these problems could require significant expenditures of our capital and resources and could cause interruptions, delays or cessation of our product licensing, which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers and would adversely affect our financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows. Most of our license agreements with customers contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims. It is possible, however, that these provisions may not prove effective in limiting our liability. We depend on others for components of our products, which may result in delays and quality-control issues. We do not own or lease any manufacturing facilities. Rather, we purchase components and finished products, such as personal computers from unaffiliated suppliers. Our Document Management Solutions and Systems Integration segments acquire computer hardware from manufacturers or third party resellers. We believe that at the present time we have sufficient sources of supply of computer equipment, and that in the event any existing supplier ceases to furnish these to us, alternative sources are available. In addition, our software products incorporate elements which we license from unaffiliated third-parties. We believe that adequate 14 Table of Contents alternative suppliers of these products are available on commercially reasonable terms. However, there can be no assurance that the future production capacity of our current suppliers and manufacturers will be sufficient to satisfy our requirements or that alternate suppliers and manufacturers will be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Further, there can be no assurance that the availability of such supplies will continue in the future. We have a significant amount of net operating loss carryforwards which we may not be able to utilize in certain circumstances. At June 30, 2006, the date of our most recent fiscal year end, we had net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLS”) for federal income tax purposes of approximately $83,000,000 available to offset future taxable income. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, utilization of prior NOLS is limited after an ownership change, as defined in Section 382, to an annual amount equal to the value of the corporation’s outstanding stock immediately before the date of the ownership change multiplied by the federal long-term exempt tax rate. Use of our NOLS could also be limited as a result of grants of stock options under stock option plans and other events. In the event we achieve profitable operations, any significant limitation on the utilization of NOLS would have the effect of increasing our current tax liability. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price is volatile and could decline. The price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. For example, our stock price during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006 traded as low as $1.86 per share and as high as $4.30 per share. Through September 1, 2006, our stock price has traded in the range of $1.76 to $2.73 per share. We cannot assure you that your initial investment in our common stock will not fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • quarterly variations in our operating results; • announcements we make regarding significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, or joint ventures; • additions or departures of key personnel; • the introduction of competitive products by existing or new competitors; • uncertainty about and customer confidence in the current economic conditions and outlook; • reduced demand for any given product; and • sales of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general, and companies whose stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Since we have not paid dividends on our common stock, you may not receive income from this investment. We have not paid any dividends on our common stock since our inception and do not contemplate or anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Earnings, if any, will be used to finance the development and expansion of our business. The exercise of our outstanding options and warrants, or conversion of our outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock, may depress our stock price. As of June 30, 2006, there were outstanding the following options and warrants: • Stock options to purchase approximately 4,579,000 shares of common stock at exercise prices ranging from $2.00 to $16.00 per share, not all of which are immediately exercisable. The weighted average exercise price of the outstanding stock options is $4.86 per share. These stock options are employee and non-executive director options. • Immediately exercisable warrants to purchase an approximately 1,221,000 shares of common stock at exercise prices ranging from $2.50 to $20.00 per share. The weighted average exercise price of the outstanding warrants is $5.94. • Stock options to purchase 375,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $3.75 per share to an independent 15 Table of Contents consultant which are exercisable upon achieving certain sales levels. In addition, there are currently outstanding 28,000 shares of our Series B Preferred Stock. The holder of the Series B Preferred Stock may convert these shares into shares of our common stock at a conversion price equal to $1.40 per share. Accordingly, the outstanding 28,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock are presently convertible into an aggregate of 500,000 shares of our common stock. To the extent that these securities are exercised or converted, dilution to our shareholders will occur. Moreover, the terms upon which we will be able to obtain additional equity capital may be adversely affected, since the holders of these securities can be expected to exercise or convert them at a time when we would, in all likelihood, be able to obtain any needed capital on terms more favorable to us than the exercise and conversion terms provided by those securities. Further, in the event the conversion price of the Series B Preferred Stock is lower than the actual trading price on the day of conversion, the holder could immediately sell all of its converted common shares, which would have a dilutive effect on the value of the outstanding common shares. Furthermore, the significant downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock as Series B Preferred Stock holders converted these securities and sell the common shares received on conversion could encourage short sales by the holders of Series B Preferred Stock or other shareholders. This would place further downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. Even the mere perception of eventual sales of common shares issued on the conversion of the Series B Preferred Stock could lead to a decline in the trading price of our common stock. We have sold restricted shares which may depress our stock price when they are sellable under Rule 144. As of June 30, 2006, there were approximately 1,677,000 shares of restricted common stock currently outstanding which may be deemed “restricted securities” as that term is defined under the Securities Act of 1933, and in the future, may be sold pursuant to a registration under the Act, in compliance with Rule 144 under the Act, or pursuant to another exemption. Rule 144 provides, that, in general, a person holding restricted securities for a period of one year may, every three months thereafter, sell in brokerage transactions an amount of shares which does not exceed the greater of one percent of our then outstanding common stock or the average weekly trading volume of the common stock during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale. Rule 144 also permits, under certain circumstances, the sale of shares without any quantity limitations by a person who is not an affiliate of ours and was not an affiliate at any time during the 90 day period prior to sale and who has satisfied a two year holding period. Sales of our common stock by certain present stockholders under Rule 144 may, in the future, have a depressive effect on the market price of our securities. In addition, the sale of shares by officers and directors and other affiliated shareholders may also have a depressive effect on the market for our securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved staff comments. 