ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS As provided for under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we wish to caution shareholders and investors that the following important factors, among others discussed throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015, have affected, and in some cases could affect, our actual results of operation and cause our results to differ materially from those anticipated in forward looking statements made herein. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected due to any of the following risks. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our financial statements and related notes. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition Failure to increase our revenue and keep our expenses consistent with revenues could prevent us from achieving and maintaining profitability in the near term as we seek to generate new business revenues to offset the loss of our largest customer. We incurred net losses of approximately $9,700,000, $7,143,000 and $11,349,000 for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively and had an accumulated deficit of approximately $206,485,000 at June 30, 2015. We have expended, and will continue to be required to expend, substantial funds to pursue product development projects, enhance our marketing and sales efforts and to otherwise operate our business. Therefore, we will need to generate higher revenues to achieve and maintain profitability and cannot assure you that we will be profitable in any future period. Further, our ability to generate the level of revenues we require to achieve profitability was adversely impacted by the decision of the Department of Veterans Affairs not to exercise the remaining renewal period of our contract. The loss of this customer has increased and accelerated our need to diversify our business by adding new customers. Our prospects should be considered in light of the difficulties frequently encountered in connection with the establishment of a new business line, which characterizes our business, such as the difficulty in creating a viable market, the significant related development and marketing costs and the overall competitive environment in which we operate. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve profitable operations in future operating periods. Our business results are likely to remain uncertain as we are unable to reliably predict revenues from our current customers. Revenue levels achieved from our customers, the mix of products and solutions that we offer, our ability to introduce new products as planned and our ability to reduce and manage our operating expenses will affect our financial results. Consequently, we may not be profitable in any future period. Unless we can generate additional revenues from sales or rentals of products and services to existing customers or obtain new customers, we will continue to generate substantial operating losses and may need to curtail our business and incur additional restructuring or exit costs, which may be material. These factors, among others, raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Our capital requirements have been significant and until our revenues can sufficiently support our operating costs, we expect to raise additional capital to finance our operations and repay outstanding debt obligations. Our capital requirements have been and will continue to be significant. We have been substantially dependent upon private placements and registered offerings of our securities and on short-term and long-term debt transactions to fund such requirements. We are expending significant amounts of capital to develop, promote and market our software, services and products. Due to these expenditures, we have incurred significant losses to date. We used approximately $4,951,000, $4,726,000 and $5,214,000 in cash for operating activities for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Our available cash and cash equivalents as of June 30, 2015 totaled approximately $247,000. Our current estimated monthly operational requirements after 14 Table of Contents giving effect to our cost cutting measures, but not to any special or one-time events is approximately $350,000. Since February 2015, we have completed a number of debt financing transactions resulting in total proceeds of approximately $3.50 million, and have approximately $1.45 million in notes that must be repaid in October 2015. We have an immediate need for additional capital and are continuing to explore additional potential transactions to improve our capital position. We expect our existing resources, revenues generated from operations, net proceeds from our debt financing transactions, other transactions we are considering and proceeds received from the exercise of outstanding warrants or restructuring of debt (of which there can be no assurance) to satisfy our working capital requirements for at least the next twelve months; however, no assurances can be given, that we will be able to attain sales levels and support our costs through revenues derived from operations or generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our other obligations. These factors, among others, raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The accompanying consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments to the recoverability and classification of assets carrying amounts or the amounts and classifications of liabilities that might result from the outcome of these uncertainties. Unless we are able to increase revenues substantially or generate additional capital from other transactions, our current cash resources will only satisfy our working capital needs for a limited period of time. In addition to our recently announced letter of intent for a business combination transaction, we are continuing to explore additional potential transactions to improve our capital position to ensure we are able to meet our financing and working capital requirements. We would expect to raise additional funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or strategic alliances. Raising additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities may cause our stockholders to experience substantial dilution in their ownership interests and new investors may have rights superior to the rights of our other stockholders. Raising additional funds through debt financing or preferred stock, if available, may involve covenants that restrict our business activities and options and such additional securities may have powers, designations, preferences or rights senior to our currently outstanding securities. We may also enter into financing transactions which involve the granting of liens on our assets or which grant preferences of payment from our revenue streams, all of which could adversely impact our ability to rely on our revenue from operations to support our ongoing operating costs. Alternatively, we may seek to obtain new financing from existing security holders, which may include reducing the exercise or conversion prices of outstanding securities, or the issuance of additional equity securities. Currently, the company does not have any definitive agreements with any third-parties for such transactions and there can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful in completing the transaction contemplated by the letter of intent, raising additional capital or securing financing when needed or on terms satisfactory to the company. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required, or on acceptable terms, we will need to reduce costs and operations substantially or potentially suspend operations, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future capital requirements will depend on, and could increase substantially as a result of many factors, including: • our need to utilize cash to support research and development activities and to make incremental investments in our organization; • our ability to achieve targeted revenue, gross profit margins and cost management objectives; • our ability to reach break-even or profitability; • the success of our sales and marketing efforts; • our need to repay indebtedness; • the extent and terms of any development, marketing or other arrangements; and • changes in economic, regulatory or competitive conditions, including the continuing economic weakness and federal budgetary uncertainty. 15 Table of Contents We depend on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues, and the loss of the VA as a customer and the loss, or a significant reduction in purchases by, one or more of our other important customers will adversely affect our operating results. We receive a significant amount of our revenues from a limited number of customers. Over recent years, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) had been our largest customer, generating approximately 45% of our total consolidated revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015. On March 6, 2015, the company announced that the VA informed the company that it was not exercising the fourth and final option year under the contract for telehealth services. Our VA revenue included both recurring services revenue as well as hardware sales. Due to this, the company expects to report significantly reduced revenues over the next several quarters and the loss of this business will materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition until we are able to replace the revenues that had been generated through our VA contract. We will need to attract new clients and attempt to diversify our customer base from a limited number of potential customers. In general, most of our customer orders for our telehealth business have been and are expected to continue to be made on a purchase order basis, which does not generally require any long-term commitments nor any minimum purchase requirements. Therefore, these customers may alter their past purchasing behavior with little or no notice to us for various reasons. If our customers alter their past (or expected) purchasing behavior, or if we encounter any problems collecting amounts due from them, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Our revenues may be affected by changes in technology spending levels. In the past, unfavorable or uncertain macroeconomic conditions and reduced global technology spending rates have adversely affected the markets in which we operate. Current economic conditions and ongoing uncertainty about the economic recovery could reduce the demand for our products and services and negatively impact revenues and operating profit. We are unable to predict changes in general macroeconomic conditions and when global spending rates will be affected. Furthermore, even if spending rates increase, we cannot be certain that the market for our products and services will be positively impacted. If there are future reductions in spending rates, or if spending rates do not increase, our revenues, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Economic volatility and uncertainty may negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Our markets have been and will continue to be affected by general macroeconomic and market conditions. Developments, such as the lingering economic instability in the U.S., Europe and China, the imposition of government spending restrictions in the U.S. (such as through sequestration), and the inflationary risks associated with higher commodity prices, among other developments, have generated significant instability in the credit and financial markets and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Volatile, negative or uncertain economic conditions in our significant markets have undermined and could in the future undermine business confidence in our markets and cause our clients to reduce or defer their spending on new technologies or initiatives or terminate existing contracts, which would negatively affect our business. While the U.S. economy appears to have stabilized somewhat relative to its performance in recent years, the ultimate impact of these developments cannot be predicted, and they may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition if our ability to obtain financing for operations or obtain credit from trade creditors were to be impaired. If general economic conditions further deteriorate or economic uncertainty continues, we or our customers might experience future deterioration of their businesses, cash flow shortages and financing difficulties. Healthcare policy changes, including recent laws to reform the U.S. healthcare system, may have a material adverse effect on us. Healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade. There have been, and continue to be, proposals by legislators, regulators, and third-party payors to keep these costs down. Certain proposals, if passed, 16 Table of Contents could impose limitations on the prices we will be able to charge for our products, or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products from governmental agencies or third-party payors. These limitations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. On March 23, 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was signed into law and on March 30, 2010, the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 was signed into law. Together, the two measures make the most sweeping and fundamental changes to the U.S. healthcare system since the creation of Medicare and Medicaid. The Health Care Reform laws include a large number of health-related provisions to take effect over the next four years, including expanding Medicaid eligibility, requiring most individuals to have health insurance, establishing new regulations on health plans, establishing health insurance exchanges, requiring manufacturers to report payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals, and modifying certain payment systems to encourage more cost-effective care and a reduction of inefficiencies and waste, including through new tools to address fraud and abuse. In 2013, a 2.3% excise tax on the sale by manufacturers, producers and importers of certain medical devices that are not exempted from such tax was imposed under these health care reform laws. Further, as administrative rules implementing healthcare reform under the legislation are not yet finalized or have been modified, the impact of the healthcare reform legislation on our business is unknown, and there can be no assurances that healthcare reform legislation will not adversely impact either our operational results or the manner in which we operate our business. Healthcare industry participants may respond by reducing their investments or postponing investment decisions, including investments in our solutions and services. In addition, various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. We cannot predict the exact effect newly enacted laws or any future legislation or regulation will have on us. However, the implementation of new legislation and regulation may lower reimbursements for our products, reduce medical procedure volumes and adversely affect our business, possibly materially. In addition, the enacted excise tax may materially and adversely affect our operating expenses and results of operations. We depend on growth in the software as a service market, and lack of growth or contraction in this market could materially adversely affect our sales and financial condition. Our hosted software and web-based solutions compete with other “software as a service” solutions. Demand for our solutions and software offerings is driven by several factors, including an increased focus on protecting business-critical applications, government and industry regulations requiring data protection and integrity, and the growth in the market for software as a service. Segments of the computer and software industry have in the past experienced significant economic downturns and decreases in demand as a result of changing market factors. A change in the market factors that are driving demand for offerings of software as a service could adversely affect our sales, profitability and financial condition. We depend on third parties for the supply and manufacture of our telehealth products, which may result in delays and quality-control issues and new regulations related to conflict minerals could adversely impact our business. We do not own or lease any manufacturing facilities. Accordingly, in order to market our telehealth solution we purchase finished products and components from unaffiliated suppliers and use a contract manufacturer to produce our Electronic House Call device. In addition, we may use unaffiliated third parties to provide distribution services for this solution. If the agreements with these third parties are terminated or if they are unable to perform their obligations under such agreements, it could take several months to establish and qualify alternative suppliers and manufacturing and distribution partners for our products and we may not be able to fulfill our customers’ orders in a timely manner. At the present time we believe that if existing third party relationships terminate, alternative providers are available on commercially reasonable terms. However, there can be no assurance that the future production capacity of our current manufacturer will be sufficient to satisfy our requirements or that alternative providers of components or manufacturing or distribution services will be 17 Table of Contents available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The failure to identify suitable alternative suppliers, manufacturers or distributors could adversely impact our customer relationships and our financial condition. In addition, due to our use of third-party manufacturers and distributors, we do not have control over the timing of product shipments. Delays in shipment could result in the deferral or cancellation of purchases of our products, which would harm our results of operations in any particular quarter. Revenue for a period may be lower than predicted if large orders forecasted for that period are delayed or are not realized, which could impact cash flow or result in a decline in our stock price. Moreover, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC promulgated new rules applicable to public companies concerning the use of certain minerals and metals, known as conflict minerals, in their products. The rules require us to undertake measures to understand the origin and, as need be, source of any conflict minerals within our supply chain and commencing in May 2014, to disclose, among other things, those measures and whether or not any such conflict minerals in our products originated from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries. We expect that we will incur additional costs in complying with this rule, including for diligence measures undertaken to understand the origin and, as need be, source of conflict minerals used in certain of our products, in addition to the potential cost of implementing changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. In addition, the implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in certain of our products by reducing the supply of “conflict free” components and parts. We cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain the necessary information on conflict minerals from our suppliers in any future periods, or that we will be able to determine that all of our products are conflict free. As a result, we may face reputational challenges with our customers, stockholders and other stakeholders if we determine that our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we implement. Our business may be adversely affected by legal proceedings. We have been in the past, and may become in the future, involved in legal proceedings. You should carefully review and consider the various disclosures we make in our reports filed with the SEC regarding legal matters that may affect our business. As described in greater detail below, on May 22, 2015, the company, together with its subsidiary Express MD Solutions, LLC entered into a license and settlement agreement with Robert Bosch Healthcare Systems, Inc. providing for the resolution and dismissal, with prejudice, of the purported patent infringement lawsuit filed by Bosch against Express MD in January 2012 in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, Case No. 5:12-cv-00068-JW. While the company does not believe that it is infringing any of the asserted patents, in order to mitigate its risk and avoid further costs and distractions of litigation, it entered into the license and settlement agreement. As previously reported by the company, the complaint alleged that the company’s “Electronic House Call” product infringes one or more claims of certain patents allegedly owned by Bosch. The agreement provides for the company to be granted by Bosch a worldwide, non-exclusive, non-assignable, royalty bearing license under the patents and a covenant not to be sued under certain other patents owned by Bosch. In consideration thereof, the company agreed to pay Bosch for the license and related matters and to pay certain royalties to Bosch for a three year period thereafter. The expense of defending such litigation may be substantial and the time required to defend the actions could divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. We cannot predict with certainty the outcome of any legal proceedings in which we become involved and it is difficult to estimate the possible costs to us stemming from any such matters. In addition, an unfavorable outcome in such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 18 Table of Contents Our success is dependent on the performance of our management and the cooperation, performance and retention of our executive officers and key employees. Our business and operations are substantially dependent on the performance of our senior management team and executive officers. If our management team is unable to perform it may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance on any of our executive officers. The loss of one or several key employees could seriously harm our business. Any reorganization or reduction in the size of our employee base could harm our ability to attract and retain other valuable employees critical to the success of our business. If we lose key personnel or fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully, our ability to manage our business could be impaired. Our future success depends upon the continued service of our key management, technical, sales, finance, and other critical personnel. Other than with respect to employment agreements that we entered into with our executive officers, our key personnel do not have employment agreements and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them. Key personnel have left our company in the past and there likely will be additional departures of key personnel from time to time in the future. Further, following the non-renewal of our telehealth contract with the VA, in order to reduce our operating costs, we have implemented several reductions in staff and the use of external resources and to date have eliminated a number of positions throughout the company, or approximately 50% of our workforce. The loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, and the results of our operations. In addition, hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement sales and other personnel could be time consuming, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future revenues. Developing and implementing new or updated software and services and other product offerings may take longer and cost more than expected. We rely on a combination of internal development, strategic relationships, licensing and acquisitions to develop our products and services. The cost of developing new software, services and other product offerings, such as Inscrybe Healthcare and related modules, and our telehealth offerings is inherently difficult to estimate. Our development and implementation of proposed software, services or other product offerings may take longer than originally expected, require greater investment of cash resources than initially expected, require more testing than originally anticipated and require the acquisition of additional personnel and other resources. Accordingly, we expect to face substantial uncertainties with respect to the performance and market acceptance of new software and services and other product offerings. If we are unable to develop new or updated software, services or other product offerings on a timely basis and implement them without significant disruptions to the existing systems and processes of our customers, we may lose potential revenues and harm our relationships with current or potential customers. The success of any of our product acquisition and licensing activities is subject to uncertainty and any completed acquisitions or licenses may reduce our earnings, be difficult to integrate, not perform as expected or require us to obtain additional financing. We regularly evaluate selective acquisitions and look to continue to enhance our product line by acquiring rights to additional products and services. Such acquisitions may be carried out through the purchase of assets, joint ventures and licenses or by acquiring other companies. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete acquisitions or in-licensing arrangements that meet our target criteria on satisfactory terms, if at all. Successfully integrating a product or service acquisition or in-licensing arrangement can be a lengthy and complex process. The diversion of our management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in 19 Table of Contents connection with any of our acquisitions or arrangements could result in the disruption of our ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that could negatively affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and others with whom we have business dealings. In addition, other companies, including those with substantially greater resources than ours, may compete with us for the acquisition of product or in-licensing candidates and approved products, resulting in the possibility that we devote resources to potential acquisitions or arrangements that are never completed. If we do engage in any such acquisition or arrangement, we will incur a variety of costs, and we may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition or arrangement in light of those costs. If we fail to realize the expected benefits from acquisitions or arrangements we may consummate in the future, whether as a result of unidentified risks, integration difficulties, regulatory setbacks or other events, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, our product acquisition and licensing activities may require us to obtain additional debt or equity financing, resulting in increased debt obligations or dilution of ownership to our existing stockholders, as applicable. Therefore, we may not be able to finance acquisitions on terms satisfactory to us, if at all. New or updated software, services and product offerings will not become profitable unless they achieve sufficient levels of market acceptance, which may require significant efforts and costs. There can be no assurance that customers and potential customers will accept from us new or updated software, services and other products. The future results of our business will depend, in significant part, on the success of our software, services or other product offerings. Current and potential customers may choose to use similar products and services offered by our competitors or may not purchase new or updated software, services or products, especially when they are initially offered and if they require changes in equipment or workflow. For software, services and products we are developing or may develop in the future, there can be no assurance that we will attract sufficient customers or that such offerings will generate sufficient revenues to cover their associated development, marketing and maintenance costs. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that any pricing strategy that we implement for any new software and services or other product offerings will be economically viable or acceptable to the target markets. Failure to achieve broad penetration in target markets with respect to new or updated software, services and product offerings could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects. Further, achieving market acceptance for new or updated software, services and product offerings is likely to require substantial marketing efforts and expenditure of significant funds to create awareness and demand by potential customers. We do not have patents on all the technology we use, which could harm our competitive position. Presently, we have one issued U.S. patent and one pending patent application. We also have been granted a license to one issued U.S. patent by Authentidate International AG, two issued U.S. patents by our former joint venture partner and their affiliate and one issued U.S. patent by a third party. We also entered into a license and settlement agreement with Robert Bosch Healthcare Systems, Inc. providing for the resolution and dismissal, with prejudice, of the purported patent infringement lawsuit filed by Bosch against Express MD in January 2012 and a license to the various asserted patents. Some of the technology embodied in some of our current products cannot be patented. We have registered the trademarks “Authentidate”, “Inscrybe”, “InscrybeMD”, “AuthentiProof” and “Inscrybe Office” in the U.S., the trademark “Authentidate” in the European Community and Canada, “AuthentiProof” in Canada, Mexico and the European Community, “Inscrybe” in the European Community and Canada, “Inscrybe Office,” and a number of other trademarks as Madrid Protocol international registrations. We continue to take steps to protect our intellectual property rights including filing additional trademark and patent applications where appropriate. We rely on confidentiality agreements with our key employees to the extent we deem it to be necessary. We further intend to file patent applications for any new products we may develop, to the extent that we believe that any technology included in such products is patentable. There can be no assurance that any patents in fact, will be issued or that any such patents that do issue will be effective to protect our products and services from duplication by other manufacturers or developers or to 20 Table of Contents prevent our competitors from offering similar products and services. Other companies operating within our business segments may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or otherwise obtain access to our know-how, much of which is maintained as trade secrets and there can be no assurance that we will be able to afford the expense of any litigation which may be necessary to enforce our rights under any patent. In addition, with respect to our telehealth offerings, in connection with the termination of the joint venture, our former joint venture partner and an affiliate licensed to us certain intellectual property assets to enable us to continue to commercialize and develop the ExpressMD Solutions remote patient monitoring products and services. Accordingly, our right to utilize any such intellectual property is subject to the terms of this agreement. Further, and similar to the intellectual property owned by us, there can be no assurance that the intellectual property licensed to us will be effective to protect our products and services from duplication by other manufacturers or developers or to prevent our competitors from offering similar products and services. We have investigated patents held by third parties of which we are aware and we believe that our products and services, including our telehealth offerings, do not infringe on the claims of these patents. However, we cannot provide any assurances that our products and services do not infringe upon any third party patents or violate the proprietary rights of others, including the patents we have investigated, and it is possible that such infringement or violation has occurred or may occur. As described in greater detail below, on May 22, 2015, the company, together with its subsidiary Express MD Solutions, LLC entered into a license and settlement agreement with Robert Bosch Healthcare Systems, Inc. providing for the resolution and dismissal, with prejudice, of the purported patent infringement lawsuit filed by Bosch against Express MD in January 2012 in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, Case No. 5:12-cv-00068-JW. While the company does not believe that it was or is infringing any of the asserted patents, in order to mitigate its risk and avoid further costs and distractions of litigation, it entered into the license and settlement agreement. As previously reported by the company, the complaint alleged that the company’s “Electronic House Call” product infringes one or more claims of certain patents allegedly owned by Bosch. The agreement provides for the company to be granted by Bosch a worldwide, non-exclusive, non-assignable, royalty bearing license under the patents and a covenant not to be sued under certain other patents owned by Bosch. In consideration thereof, the company agreed to pay Bosch for the license and related matters and to pay certain royalties to Bosch for a three year period thereafter. In the event that products we sell or services we provide are deemed to infringe upon the patents or proprietary rights of others, we could be required to modify our products and/or services or obtain a license for the manufacture, use and/or sale of such products and services. There can be no assurance that, in such an event, we would be able to do so in a timely manner, upon acceptable terms and conditions, or at all, and the failure to do any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect upon our business. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will have the financial or other resources necessary to defend against a patent infringement or proprietary rights violation action. In addition, if our products, services or proposed products or services are deemed to infringe upon the patents or proprietary rights of others, we could, under certain circumstances, become liable for damages or subject to an injunction, which could also have a material adverse effect on our business. Because we currently derive a majority of our revenues from a few telehealth products and services, hosted software and web-based service offerings, any decline in demand for these offerings could severely harm our ability to generate revenues. We currently derive a majority of our revenues from a limited number of telehealth products and services, hosted software and web-based service offerings. In addition, our focus on building our business is concentrated on markets for telehealth solutions, hosted software and web-based services where content integrity, workflow automation, electronic signatures, time and date stamping and web-based services are important to customers. As a result, we are particularly vulnerable to fluctuations in demand for these offerings, whether as a result of competition, product obsolescence, technological change, customer spending, or other factors. If our revenues 21 Table of Contents derived from our offerings were to decline significantly, our business and operating results would be adversely affected. As a result, if our relationships with significant customers were disrupted we could lose a significant percentage of our anticipated revenues which could have material adverse effect on our business. Some of our hosted software and web-based service offerings have long and unpredictable sales cycles, which may impact our quarterly operating results. Transactions for some of our hosted software and web-based service offerings may require customers to undertake customized installations to integrate the solutions into their legacy systems and require them to modify existing business practices. The period from our initial contact with a potential customer until the execution of an agreement is difficult to predict and can be in excess of six to twelve months. The sales cycles for these transactions can be long and unpredictable due to a number of uncertainties such as: • customers’ budgetary constraints; • the need to educate potential customers about our software and service offerings; • the timing of customers’ budget cycles; • delays caused by customers’ internal review processes; • customers’ willingness to invest resources and modify their network infrastructures to make use of our offerings; and • for sales to government customers, governmental regulatory approval and purchasing requirements. We are unable to control or influence many of these factors. Further, we have experienced delays in the pace of adoption and use by our customers of our transaction-based offerings, such as Inscrybe Healthcare, which has adversely affected our earnings. We may experience similar delays with our other products and services and products and services currently under development. During the sales cycle and the implementation period, we may expend substantial time, effort and money preparing contract proposals, negotiating contracts and implementing solutions without receiving any related revenue. In addition, many of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short term, including personnel costs and technology and infrastructure costs. Accordingly, our inability to generate sufficient revenues from these offerings has a direct impact on our results of operations. The failure to properly manage our growth could cause our business to lose money. We are using our sales and marketing efforts in order to develop and pursue existing and potential market opportunities. This growth is expected to place a significant demand on management and operational resources. In order to manage growth effectively, we must implement and improve our operational systems and controls on a timely basis. If we fail to implement these systems and controls, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. Healthcare industry consolidation could impose pressure on our price, reduce our potential client base and reduce demand for our offerings. Many hospitals and health care centers have consolidated to create larger healthcare enterprises with greater market power. If this consolidation trend continues, it could reduce the size of our potential customer base and give the resulting enterprises greater bargaining power, which may lead to erosion of the prices for our products and services. In addition, this consolidation could also erode our revenue base. Our hosted software and web-based services and web site may be subject to intentional disruption. Although we believe we have sufficient controls in place to prevent intentional disruptions, such as software viruses specifically designed to impede the performance of our software and web-based services, we may be 22 Table of Contents affected by such efforts in the future. Further, despite the implementation of security measures, this infrastructure or other systems that we interface with, including the Internet and related systems, may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, hackers, improper employee or contractor access, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems, resulting in the potential misappropriation of our proprietary information or interruptions of our services. Any compromise of our security, whether as a result of our own systems or systems that they interface with, could substantially disrupt our operations, harm our reputation and reduce demand for our services. Performance problems with our systems, security breaches and other disruptions could cause us to lose business or incur liabilities. Our customer satisfaction and our business could be harmed if we experience transmission delays or failures or loss of data in the systems we use to provide services to our customers, including transaction-related services. Further, in the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including our proprietary information and that of our customers in our data center and on our networks. These systems are complex and, despite testing and quality control and security measures, we cannot be certain that problems will not occur or that they will be detected and corrected promptly if they do occur, and our information technology systems may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to error or malfeasance. In providing these services, we rely on internal systems as well as communications and hosting services provided by third parties, such as the Internet. To operate without interruption, both we and the service providers we use must guard against: • damage from fire, power loss and other natural disasters; • communications failures; • software and hardware errors, failures or crashes; • security breaches, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems; and • other potential interruptions. We have experienced periodic system interruptions in the past, and we cannot guarantee that they will not occur again. In the event of a catastrophic event at our data center or any third party facility we use, we may experience an extended period of system unavailability, which could negatively impact our business. Further, any compromise of our electronic systems, including the unauthorized access, use or disclosure of sensitive information, the disruption or breach of our networks or security measures, the loss of stored data, could have a material adverse impact on our business, expose us to reputational damage, result in legal claims and cause us to incur material liabilities. Such events would also be likely to require us to incur significant costs to improve cyber security, including through organizational changes, deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, further training of employees, and engaging third party experts and consultants. In addition, any real or perceived compromise of our security or disclosure of sensitive information may result in lost revenues by, deterring clients from using or purchasing our products and services in the future or by clients electing to use competing suppliers. Although we maintain insurance for our business, we cannot guarantee that our insurance will be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur or that this coverage will continue to be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts. In addition, some of our web-based services may, at times, be required to accommodate higher than expected volumes of traffic. At those times, we may experience slower response times or system failures. Any sustained or repeated interruptions or disruptions in these systems or slowdown in their response times could damage our relationships with customers. Further, the Internet has experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, significant growth in the number of users and the amount of traffic. If the Internet continues to experience increased usage, the Internet infrastructure may be unable to support the demands placed on it which could harm its reliability and performance. Any significant interruptions in our services or increases in response time could result in a loss of potential or existing users of services and, if sustained or repeated, could reduce the attractiveness of our services. 23 Table of Contents We are subject to product liability risks associated with the production, marketing and sale of products used in the healthcare industry. The production, marketing and sale of devices used in the healthcare industry have inherent risks of liability in the event of product failure or claim of harm caused by product operation. Furthermore, even meritless claims of product liability may be costly to defend against. The commercialization of the telehealth device exposes us to such claims. These types of product liability claims may result in decreased demand for this product, injury to our reputation, related litigation costs, and substantial monetary awards to plaintiffs. We attempt to limit by contract our liability, however, the limitations of liability set forth in the contracts may not be enforceable in certain jurisdictions or may not otherwise protect us from liability for damages. We may also be subject to claims that are not covered by contract, such as a claim directly by a patient. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance, we may not have sufficient insurance coverage, and we may not be able to obtain sufficient coverage at a reasonable cost. Our inability to obtain product liability insurance at an acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could inhibit the commercialization of any products that we develop. If we are sued for any injury caused by our products or processes, then our liability could exceed our product liability insurance coverage and our total assets. We need to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements applicable to our telehealth product and our results of operations may be adversely impacted by any failure to comply with these requirements. Our telehealth product is a medical device that is subject to extensive regulation in the United States. Unless an exemption applies, each medical device that we wish to market in the United States must receive either 510(k) clearance or premarket approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, before the product can be sold. Either process can be lengthy and expensive. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance procedure, also known as “premarket notification,” is the process we have used for our current telehealth product. The regulatory clearance for our telehealth product provides for its use for its intended purposes. In addition, we are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the FDA to determine our compliance with all regulatory requirements and the manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion, distribution and record-keeping for approved products are subject to extensive regulation. If the FDA determines that our promotional materials or activities constitute promotion of an unapproved use or we otherwise fail to comply with other FDA regulations, we may be subject to regulatory enforcement actions, including a public warning letter, injunction, civil fines, suspensions, loss of regulatory clearance, product recalls or product seizures. In the more egregious cases, criminal prosecution, civil penalties, or disgorgement of profits are possible. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems may also result in restrictions on the marketing of our products, and could include voluntary or mandatory recall or withdrawal of products from the market. Further, we cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action. In addition, the FDA has increased its focus on regulating computer software intended for use in a healthcare setting, including applications meant to run on a mobile platform or on a browser tailored for use on a mobile platform. If our software solutions or applications are deemed to be actively regulated medical devices by the FDA, we could be subject to more extensive requirements governing pre- and post-marketing activities. As described above, complying with these regulations could be time consuming and expensive, and may require FDA clearance or pre-market approval. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance with any of our products, we may be subject to regulatory enforcement actions as described above and may not be permitted to market our products, which would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Further, any modification to an FDA-cleared medical device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change or modification in its intended use, requires a new FDA 510(k) clearance or, possibly, a premarket approval. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make its own determination as to whether a modification requires a new 510(k) clearance or premarket approval, but the FDA may review and disagree with any decision reached by the manufacturer. In the future, we may make modifications to our telehealth products and, in appropriate circumstances, determine that new clearance or 24 Table of Contents approval is unnecessary. Regulatory authorities may disagree with our decisions not to seek new clearance or approval and may require us to obtain clearance or approval for modifications to our products. If that were to occur for a previously cleared or approved product, we may be required to cease marketing or recall the modified device until we obtain the necessary clearance or approval. Under these circumstances, we may also be subject to significant regulatory fines or other penalties. In February 2014, the FDA conducted a routine inspection of our business premises related to our telehealth products and upon the completion of their inspection issued us inspectional observations on FDA Form 483. We have provided the FDA with written responses to the Form 483 that describes the actions we have taken to address their observations and we believe that we have responded to the observations noted by the FDA. In February 2015, the FDA issued an Establishment Inspection Report (EIR) and considered the inspection “closed”. We would expect another inspection in 2016 based on the typical biennial inspections cycle from the FDA. Beyond incurring compliance-related expenses, we are presently unable to predict what impact, if any, these matters or ensuing proceedings, if any, will have on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our ability to generate revenues from our telehealth products is subject to our ability to obtain acceptable prices or an adequate level of reimbursement from payors of healthcare costs. Our ability to commercialize our telehealth product successfully will depend in part on the extent to which appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for the cost of this product are obtained by us or by our direct customers from governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. The ability of customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for their products and services from private and governmental payors is critical to the success of medical technology device companies as the availability of reimbursement affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. The cost containment measures that healthcare payors and providers are instituting and the effect of any healthcare reform could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from this product and our profitability. In addition, given ongoing federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of healthcare, the United States Congress and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on healthcare reform and the reform of the Medicare and Medicaid payment systems. While we cannot predict whether any proposed cost-containment measures will be adopted, the announcement or adoption of these proposals could reduce the price that we receive for our telehealth product in the future. We cannot predict the outcomes of any of legislative or regulatory efforts at reducing costs of providing healthcare and regulatory changes in this regard may have a material adverse effect on our business. The healthcare industry is highly regulated at the local, state and federal level. In addition to regulatory requirements concerning the commercialization of medical devices, we are subject to a significant and wide-ranging number of regulations both within the United States and elsewhere, such as regulations in the areas of healthcare fraud and the security and privacy of patient data. Existing and new laws and regulations affecting the health care industry could create unexpected liabilities for us, cause us to incur additional costs, and restrict our operations. Many health care laws are complex, and their application to specific services and relationships may not be clear and these laws and regulations may be applied to us in ways that we do not anticipate, particularly as we develop and release new and more sophisticated products and services. Our failure to accurately anticipate the application of these laws and regulations, or our other failure to comply with them, could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity, and negatively affect our business. Some of the risks we face from health care regulation are described below: Healthcare Fraud. Federal and state governments continue to enhance regulation of and increase their scrutiny over practices involving healthcare fraud affecting healthcare providers whose services are reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs. Our healthcare provider clients are subject to laws and regulations on fraud and abuse which, among other things, prohibit the direct or indirect payment or 25 Table of Contents receipt of any remuneration for patient referrals, or arranging for or recommending referrals or other business paid for in whole or in part by these federal or state healthcare programs. Federal enforcement personnel have substantial funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected or perceived fraud and abuse. The effect of this government regulation on our clients is difficult to predict. Many of the regulations applicable to our clients and that may be applicable to us, including those relating to marketing incentives offered in connection with medical device sales, are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts. They may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could broaden their applicability to us or require our clients to make changes in their operations or the way in which they deal with us. If such laws and regulations are determined to be applicable to us and if we fail to comply with any applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties, sanctions or other liability, including exclusion from government health programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Security and Privacy of Patient Information. Federal, state and local laws regulate the confidentiality of patient records and the circumstances under which those records may be released. These regulations govern both the disclosure and use of confidential patient medical record information and require the users of such information to implement specified security measures. United States regulations currently in place governing electronic health data transmissions continue to evolve and are often unclear and difficult to apply. Similarly, laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions may have similar or even stricter requirements related to the treatment of patient information. In the United States, HIPAA regulations require national standards for some types of electronic health information transactions and the data elements used in those transactions, security standards to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of health information and standards to protect the privacy of individually identifiable health information. Covered entities under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), which include healthcare organizations such as our clients, and our claims transmission services, are required to comply with the privacy standards, the transaction regulations and the security regulations. Moreover, the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH) provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA) and associated regulatory requirements, extend many of the HIPAA obligations, formerly imposed only upon covered entities, to business associates as well. As a business associate of our clients who are covered entities, we were in most instances already contractually required to ensure compliance with the HIPAA regulations as they pertain to handling of covered client data. However, the extension of these HIPAA obligations to business associates by law has created additional liability risks related to the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information. Evolving HIPAA and HITECH related laws or regulations and regulations in non-U.S. jurisdictions could restrict the ability of our clients to obtain, use or disseminate patient information. This could adversely affect demand for our solutions if they are not re-designed in a timely manner in order to meet the requirements of any new interpretations or regulations that seek to protect the privacy and security of patient data or enable our clients to execute new or modified healthcare transactions. We may need to expend additional capital, software development and other resources to modify our solutions and devices to address these evolving data security and privacy issues. Furthermore, our failure to maintain confidentiality of sensitive personal information in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements could damage our reputation and expose us to breach of contract claims (although we contractually limit liability, when possible and where permitted), fines and penalties. Electronic Health Records Laws and Associated Interoperability Standards. A number of federal and state laws govern the use and content of electronic health record systems. For example, ARRA requires “meaningful use of certified electronic health record technology” by health care providers in order to receive incentive payments. Regulations have been issued that identify standards and implementation specifications and establish the certification standards for qualifying electronic health record technology. Nevertheless, these standards and specifications are subject to interpretation by the entities designated to certify such technology. While we have not sought to obtain certification of our software solutions for “meaningful use” under the criteria adopted by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services regarding electronic health records, our software solutions operate in the framework of facilitating the electronic exchange of health care information by our customers and our solutions must be designed in a manner that facilitates our customers’ compliance with these laws. Further, 26 Table of Contents there is increasing demand among customers, industry groups and government authorities that healthcare software and systems provided by various vendors be compatible with each other. Market forces or governmental/regulatory authorities could create software interoperability standards that would apply to our solutions, health care devices or solutions, and if our software solutions, health care devices or services are not consistent with those standards, we could be forced to incur substantial additional development costs to conform. We may incur increased development costs and delays in delivering solutions if we need to upgrade our software solutions to either obtain compliance with these varying and evolving standards or to facilitate such compliance by our customers. In addition, any standards applicable to our products and solutions may lengthen our sales and implementation cycle. To the extent that any such standards are narrowly construed or delayed in publication, or that we are delayed in achieving any certification that is necessary or desirable, our sales could be impaired and we may have to invest significantly in changes to our software solutions or devices. Because this is a topic of increasing state and federal regulation, we expect additional and continuing modification of the current legal and regulatory environment. We cannot predict the content or effect of possible future regulation on our business activities. In addition, in accordance with requirements under HIPAA, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) is implementing a new version of the standards for HIPAA-covered electronic transactions, including claims, remittance advices, and requests and responses for eligibility. These standards are called ANSI-5010. Additionally, HIPAA required all entities that are covered by HIPAA to upgrade to the tenth revision of the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems promulgated by the World Health Organization, also known as ICD-10, for use in reporting medical diagnoses and inpatient procedures. If we are unable to generate sufficient demand for our current telehealth products and services, we may not be able to recover our inventory and other investments. Further, modifications to our current telehealth products may require new marketing clearances or approvals or require us to cease marketing or recall the modified products until such clearances or approvals are obtained. In connection with our manufacturing and sales plans for our current telehealth products, we have purchased certain components and contract manufacturing services for the production of our Electronic House Call monitoring appliance. Our ability to recover our investment in building inventories of our current telehealth products is subject to risks. If we are unable to generate sufficient demand for our products, or incur regulatory penalties relating to our telehealth products, we may not be able to recover the cost of our investments in our telehealth business and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. If our manufacturer and suppliers for our telehealth products fail to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, and other applicable post market requirements, our operations could be disrupted, our product sales and profitability could suffer, and we may be subject to a wide variety of FDA enforcement actions. After a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements also apply to our manufacturer and suppliers. The manufacturing processes of some of our vendors must comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which governs the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, testing, manufacture, control, quality assurance, installation, servicing, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of medical devices. The FDA enforces the QSR through unannounced inspections. If one of our suppliers fails a QSR inspection, or if a corrective action plan adopted by a supplier is not sufficient, the FDA may bring an enforcement action, and our operations could be disrupted and the manufacturing of our products delayed. We are also subject to the FDA’s general prohibition against promoting our products for unapproved or “off-label” uses, the FDA’s adverse event reporting requirements and the FDA’s reporting requirements for field correction or product removals. The FDA has recently placed increased emphasis on its scrutiny of compliance with the QSR and these other post market requirements. If we or our manufacturer or suppliers violate the FDA’s requirements or fail to take adequate corrective action in response to any significant compliance issue raised by the FDA, the FDA can take various enforcement actions which could cause our product sales and profitability to suffer. 27 Table of Contents Our hosted software and web-based services and other product offerings may not be accepted by the market, which would seriously harm our business. Demand and market acceptance for our currently available hosted software and web-based services and other product offerings remain subject to a high level of uncertainty. Achieving widespread acceptance of these or future offerings will continue to require substantial marketing efforts and the expenditure of significant funds to create and maintain brand recognition and customer demand for such offerings. Demand for our software, services and other product offerings depends on, among other things: • the perceived ability of our offerings to address real customer problems; • the perceived quality, price, ease-of-use and interoperability of our offerings as compared to our competitors’ offerings; • the market’s perception of the ease or difficulty in deploying our software or services, especially in complex network environments; • the continued evolution of electronic commerce as a viable means of conducting business; • market acceptance and use of new technologies and standards; • the ability of network infrastructures to support an increasing number of users and services; • the pace of technological change and our ability to keep up with these changes; and • general economic conditions, which influence how much money our customers and potential customers are willing to allocate to their information technology budgets. There can be no assurance that adequate marketing arrangements will be made and continued for our products and services and there can be no assurance that any of these offerings will ever achieve or maintain widespread market acceptance or that such offerings will be profitable. If we cannot continuously enhance our hosted software and web-based service offerings in response to rapid changes in the market, our business will be harmed. The software-based services industry and computer industry are characterized by extensive research and development efforts which result in the frequent introduction of new products and services which render existing products and services obsolete. Our ability to compete successfully in the future will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a technically competent research and development staff and our ability to adapt to technological changes in the industry and enhance and improve our hosted software and web-based service offerings and successfully develop and market new offerings that meet the changing needs of our customers. Although we are dedicated to continued improvement of our offerings with a view towards satisfying market needs with the most advanced capabilities, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to do so on a regular basis and remain competitive with products offered by other manufacturers. At the present time, we do not have a targeted level of expenditures for research and development. We will evaluate all opportunities but believe the majority of our research and development will be devoted to enhancements of our existing offerings. If our hosted software and web-based service offerings and telehealth solutions are not competitive, our business will suffer. We are engaged in the highly competitive businesses of developing hosted software and web-based workflow management services and telehealth solutions. These markets are continually evolving and, in some cases, subject to rapid technological change. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and other resources than we do. These organizations may be better known than we are and have more customers than we do. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against these organizations. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our markets include 28 Table of Contents performance, ease of use, quality/reliability of our offerings, scalability, features and functionality, price and customer service and support. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully incorporate these factors into our software and web-based services or telehealth solutions and compete against current or future competitors or that competitive pressure we face will not harm our business. If we are unable to develop and market products to compete with the products of competitors, our business will be materially and adversely affected. Our business, including Inscrybe Healthcare and our telehealth products and services are relatively new business lines and although the level of competition for these offerings is uncertain at this point in time, the field of software-based solutions in which we compete is highly competitive. There can be no assurances, however, that any of our offerings will achieve market acceptance. We also expect that competition will increase as a result of industry consolidations and the formation of new companies with new, innovative offerings. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their software and service offerings to address the needs of our prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share, any of which could harm our business. Our hosted software and web-based services are complex and are operated in a wide variety of computer configurations, which could result in errors or product failures. Our hosted software and web-based services are complex and may contain undetected errors, failures or bugs that may arise when they are first introduced or when new versions are released. These offerings may be used in large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures in our offerings or may expose undetected errors, failures or bugs in such offerings. Our customers’ computer environments are often characterized by a wide variety of configurations that make pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors difficult and time-consuming. Despite testing by us and by others, errors, failures or bugs may not be found in new products or releases after commencement of commercial use. Errors, failures or bugs in our offerings could result in negative publicity, returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our hosted software or web-based services or claims by customers or others. Alleviating these problems could require significant expenditures of our capital and resources and could cause interruptions, delays or cessation of our licenses which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers and would adversely affect our financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows. Most of our license agreements with customers contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims. It is possible, however, that these provisions may not prove effective in limiting our liability. We have a significant amount of net operating loss carry forwards which we may not be able to utilize in certain circumstances. At June 30, 2015, we had net operating loss, or NOL, carry forwards for federal income tax purposes of approximately $162,000,000 available to offset future taxable income. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, following an “ownership change,” special limitations apply to the use by a “loss corporation” of its (i) NOL carry forwards arising before the ownership change and (ii) net unrealized built-in losses (if such losses existed immediately before the ownership change and exceed a statutory threshold amount) recognized during the five years following the ownership change ((i) and (ii) are referred to collectively as the “Applicable Tax Attributes”). After an ownership change, the amount of the loss corporation’s taxable income for each post-change taxable year that may be offset by the Applicable Tax Attributes is limited to the product of the “long-term tax-exempt rate” (published by the IRS for the month of the ownership change) multiplied by the value of the loss corporation’s stock (the “Section 382 Limitation”). To the extent that the loss corporation’s Section 382 Limitation in a given taxable year exceeds its taxable income for the year, that excess increases the Section 382 Limitation in future taxable years. 29 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock and Other Securities Our stock price is volatile and could decline. The price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. Our stock price during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 traded as low as $0.16 per share and as high as $1.20 per share. We cannot assure you that your initial investment in our common stock will not fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • quarterly variations in our operating results; • announcements we make regarding significant contracts, acquisitions, dispositions, strategic partnerships, or joint ventures; • additions or departures of key personnel; • the introduction of competitive offerings by existing or new competitors; • uncertainty about and customer confidence in the current economic conditions and outlook; • reduced demand for any given product on web-based service offering; and • sales of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general, including companies whose stock is listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. The failure to maintain compliance with The Nasdaq Capital Market listing standards could result in delisting and adversely affect the market price and liquidity of our common stock. Our common stock is currently traded on The Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol “ADAT”. If we fail to meet any of the continued listing standards of The Nasdaq Capital Market, our common stock will be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market. These continued listing standards include specifically enumerated criteria, such as a $1.00 minimum closing bid price and a minimum stockholders’ equity requirement, which requires listed companies to maintain stockholders’ equity of at least $2.5 million. On January 28, 2015, we received a staff deficiency letter from The Nasdaq Stock Market notifying us that for the prior 30 consecutive business days, the closing bid price per share of our common stock was below the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement for continued listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market, as required by Listing Rule 5550(a)(2) (the “Bid Price Rule”). Nasdaq provided us with 180 calendar days, or until July 27, 2015, to regain compliance with the Bid Price Rule. To regain compliance with the Bid Price Rule, the closing bid price of our common stock must meet or exceed $1.00 per share for a minimum of ten consecutive business days during the 180 day grace period. Subsequently, on May 28, 2015, we received a second staff deficiency letter from The Nasdaq Stock Market notifying us that we did not comply with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(b)(1), the minimum stockholders’ equity requirement for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market, which requires listed companies to maintain stockholders’ equity of at least $2.5 million. Nasdaq provided us with 45 calendar days, to submit a plan to regain compliance with the minimum stockholders’ equity standard. Pursuant to an extension granted by the staff, we submitted our compliance plan on July 21, 2015. On July 29, 2015, we received a determination letter from the staff of The Nasdaq Stock Market stating that the company has not regained compliance with The Nasdaq Capital Market minimum bid price of $1.00 30 Table of Contents requirement for continued listing set forth in Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2). The Nasdaq determination letter also stated that the company is not eligible for an additional 180-day extension to regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule because the company does not meet the minimum stockholders’ equity initial listing requirement for the Nasdaq Capital Market. The determination letter also stated that the Company did not maintain a minimum $2.5 million in stockholders equity for continued listing and did not meet the alternatives of market value of listed securities or net income as required under Listing Rule 5550(b) and that such deficiency serves as an additional basis for delisting. Pursuant to the determination letter, we requested a hearing to appeal this determination on August 5, 2015, and were granted a hearing on September 10, 2015. At the hearing we presented our plan to regain compliance with both the minimum bid price requirement of Listing Rule 5550(a)(2) and the minimum shareholders’ equity requirement of Listing Rule 5550(b)(1). On September 16, 2015, we received written notice that the Nasdaq Hearings Panel (the “Panel”) granted our request to remain listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market, LLC, subject to the condition that, on or before January 25, 2016, we shall announce and inform the Panel that the company’s proposed business combination has closed and that NASDAQ’s Listing Qualifications Staff (the “Staff”) has approved the combined entity’s application for initial listing on NASDAQ. In its written notice, the Panel stated that during the granted exception period the company must promptly notify the Panel of any significant developments, particularly any event, condition or circumstance that may impact its ability to meet the terms of the exception granted by the Panel and that the Panel reserves the right to reconsider the granted exception in such an instance. The company is diligently working to timely satisfy the terms of the Panel’s decision; however, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to do so. In the event that the company is unable to meet the exception requirement, the Panel will issue a final determination to delist the company’s shares and suspend trading of the company’s shares on The Nasdaq Capital Market. If our common stock were to be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market, trading of our common stock most likely will be conducted in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities such as the OTC Bulletin Board. Such trading will reduce the market liquidity of our common stock. As a result, an investor would find it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock and the price of our common stock could suffer a significant decline. Delisting may also impair our ability to raise capital. If our common stock is delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market and the trading price remains below $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock might also become subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Exchange Act, which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trade involving a stock defined as a “penny stock” (generally, any equity security not listed on a national securities exchange or quoted on Nasdaq that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions). Many brokerage firms are reluctant to recommend low-priced stocks to their clients. Moreover, various regulations and policies restrict the ability of shareholders to borrow against or “margin” low-priced stocks, and declines in the stock price below certain levels may trigger unexpected margin calls. Additionally, because brokers’ commissions on low-priced stocks generally represent a higher percentage of the stock price than commissions on higher priced stocks, the current price of the common stock can result in an individual shareholder paying transaction costs that represent a higher percentage of total share value than would be the case if our share price were higher. This factor may also limit the willingness of institutions to purchase our common stock. Finally, the additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements could discourage broker-dealers from facilitating trades in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the stock and the ability of investors to trade our common stock. Since we have not paid dividends on our common stock, you may not receive income from this investment. We have not paid any dividends on our common stock since our inception and do not contemplate or anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Earnings, if any, will be used to finance the development and expansion of our business. Accordingly, you may have to sell some or all of your common stock in order to generate cash from your investment. You may not receive a gain on your investment when you sell our common stock and may lose the entire amount of your investment. 31 Table of Contents Trading in our stock over the last twelve months has been limited, so investors may not be able to sell as much stock as they want at prevailing prices. The average daily trading volume in our common stock for the year ended June 30, 2015 was approximately 97,000 shares. If limited trading in our stock continues, it may be difficult for investors to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. Moreover, the market price for shares of our common stock may be made more volatile because of the relatively low volume of trading in our common stock. When trading volume is low, significant price movement can be caused by the trading in a relatively small number of shares. Volatility in our common stock could cause stockholders to incur substantial losses. Additional financings could result in dilution to existing stockholders and otherwise adversely impact the rights of our common stockholders. As stated above, we require additional financings in order to obtain additional capital with which to operate our business. Any such financings will dilute the percentage ownership interests of our stockholders and may adversely affect our earnings and net book value per share. In addition, we may not be able to secure any such additional financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We have the authority to issue additional shares of common stock and preferred stock, as well as additional classes or series of warrants or debt obligations which may be convertible into any one or more classes or series of ownership interests. We are authorized to issue 190 million shares of common stock and 5 million shares of preferred stock. Subject to compliance with the requirements of the NASDAQ Stock Market, such securities may be issued without the approval or other consent of our stockholders. We filed a “shelf” registration statement on Form S-3 with the Securities and Exchange Commission in August 2012, which was declared effective by the Commission in December 2012. There is approximately $29 million available for future issuances under this registration statement, subject to SEC limitations. This disclosure shall not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy the securities, nor shall there by any sale of these securities in any jurisdiction in which an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. Any offer of the securities will be solely by means of the prospectus included in the registration statement and one or more prospectus supplements that will be issued at the time of the offering. In the event that any future financing should be in the form of, be convertible into or exchangeable for, equity securities, and upon the conversion or exercise of such securities, investors may experience additional dilution. Moreover, we may issue undesignated shares of preferred stock, the terms of which may be fixed by our board of directors and which terms may be preferential to the interests of our common stockholders. We have issued preferred stock in the past, and our board of directors has the authority, without stockholder approval, to create and issue one or more additional series of such preferred stock and to determine the voting, dividend and other rights of holders of such preferred stock. Any debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants that impact our ability to conduct our business. The issuance of any of such series of preferred stock or debt securities may have an adverse effect on the holders of common stock. The number of shares of our common stock outstanding has increased substantially as a result of our recent financings, and the exercise or conversion of the warrants and shares of preferred stock issued in these transactions could result in further dilution to holders of our common stock and adversely impact the market price of our common stock. During our fiscal year ended June 30, 2015, we completed several transactions that have resulted in our issuance of a substantial number of shares of common stock and securities convertible into, or exercisable for, additional shares of common stock. The issuance of these securities has resulted in substantial dilution to stockholders who held our common stock prior to such transactions and will result in additional dilution in the future if shares of convertible preferred stock are converted into common stock and common stock purchase 32 Table of Contents warrants are exercised. The conversion of preferred shares and the exercise of warrants could also adversely affect the market price of our common stock if the holders of these securities immediately sell some or all of the shares of common stock issued upon conversion or exercise or there is a perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell their shares. In February 2015, the company entered into a securities purchase agreement with an accredited investor pursuant to which we issued a promissory note in the aggregate principal amount of $100,000 and common stock purchase warrants to purchase up to 80,000 shares of common stock for gross proceeds of $100,000. The warrants vest in equal monthly installments over twelve months if the notes are outstanding and, subject to vesting requirements, are exercisable for a period of 54 months commencing on the six month anniversary of the issuance date at an initial exercise price of $1.01 per share. Although the securities purchase agreement we entered into with this investor contemplated a second closing for $900,000, the second closing did not occur and we did not receive the additional funds. The vested warrants related to this transaction were exchanged for warrants issued in connection with the June 8, 2015 transaction discussed below. On February 17, 2015, in a separate transaction, the company issued a short-term promissory note in the aggregate principal amount of $950,000 and warrants to purchase 99,500 shares of common stock to an accredited investor for gross proceeds of $950,000. The warrants are exercisable for a period of 54 months commencing on the six month anniversary of the issuance date and have an initial exercise price of $1.01 per share. On April 3, 2015, the company entered into an amendment agreement with this investor to extend the maturity date of this note from March 19, 2015 to July 2, 2015 and to grant the holder the right to exchange the principal amount of the short-term note (and unpaid interest thereon) into the securities of the company sold in the next financing, as defined in the amendment agreement. This investor subsequently agreed not to participate in the convertible debt financing for which a closing was held June 8, 2015 and in consideration of such election, the participation right was modified to allow him to exchange such note for comparable securities in an alternative transaction. In consideration of waivers previously granted by the holder of potential events of default under the short-term note and the amendment to extend the maturity date, the company agreed to issue the holder warrants to purchase 3,166,667 shares of common stock of the company. The warrants are exercisable for a period of 54 months commencing six months following the date of issuance and have an exercise price equal to $0.31 per share. The holder of the short-term note is an entity controlled by Douglas B. Luce, the brother of J. David Luce, a member of the board of directors of the company. Through a series of amendments to the agreement, the note has been extended through October 16, 2015. On April 24, 2015, the company issued a short-term promissory note in the aggregate principal amount of $500,000 to Lazarus Investment Partners LLLP, the beneficial owner of approximately 29.4% of our common stock immediately prior to the note transaction, for gross proceeds of $500,000. In consideration for this loan, the company agreed to reduce the exercise price on approximately 6,233,600 warrants held by Lazarus to $0.25, based on the most recent closing bid price of the common stock prior to the note transaction, and to extend the expiration date of the warrants to October 25, 2019. Through a series of amendments to the agreement, the note has been extended through October 16, 2015. On June 8, 2015, the company issued an aggregate principal amount of $900,000 of senior secured convertible debentures and common stock purchase warrants to purchase 3,626,667 shares of common stock. Subject to certain limitations, the debentures are convertible at any time at the option of the holder into shares of our common stock at an initial conversion price of $0.25 per share. Each debenture matures on the one-year anniversary of the issuance date. The warrants are exercisable for a period of 54 months commencing on the six month anniversary of the issuance date at an initial exercise price of $0.30 per share. Although the securities purchase agreement we entered into with this investor contemplated a second closing for up to $2.1 million, the second closing has not occurred and we have not received any of the additional funds to date. On August 7, 2015, the company issued a senior secured note in the aggregate principal amount of $320,000 to MKA 79, LLC, an entity affiliated with J. David Luce, a member of the company’s board of directors. In 33 Table of Contents consideration of the loan, the company agreed to reduce the exercise price on approximately 5,474,829 warrants held by MKA 79 and an affiliate to $0.17, based on the most recent closing bid price of the common stock prior to the note transaction, and to extend the expiration date of the warrants to December 13, 2019. In September 2015, the company has issued promissory notes in the aggregate principal amount of $525,000 to accredited investors in a private transaction. The notes are unsecured and are not convertible into equity securities of the company. The notes bear interest at 20% per annum, payable in arrears, and are due upon the earlier of (i) September 18, 2016, or (ii) within 30 days of the closing of a sale of equity or debt securities of the company, or series of closings, as part of the same transaction, of equity or debt securities within a period of 90 days, in the gross amount of at least $5,000,000 in cash proceeds. The company also issued the investors warrants to purchase an aggregate of 1,050,000 shares of common stock. The warrants are exercisable commencing twelve months following their issuance for a period of 54 months at an exercise price of $0.30 per share. These closings are part of an offering of up to $1 million of notes and 2 million warrants. Due to our need for additional capital, we may be required to issue additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock at prices reflecting a dilution to existing stockholders. We may seek to obtain capital from the holders of existing warrants or convertible securities by reducing the exercise or conversion prices and may include additional issuance of equity securities. All of these potential transactions may result in dilution to existing stockholders. Our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders will be able to influence matters requiring stockholder approval As of the date of this report, our executive officers, directors and largest shareholder (Lazarus Investment Partners, LLLP) possess beneficial ownership (without, however, giving effect to any limitations on the ability of such persons to convert shares of Series D preferred stock or exercise warrants) of approximately 44.5% of our common stock and within this amount, Lazarus Investment Partners beneficially owns approximately 29.3% of our outstanding common stock. Due to such ownership position, these persons have increased influence over the outcome of future stockholder votes, including the election of directors and other significant business matters that require stockholder approval, and their interests may differ from the interests of other stockholders. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale or merger of our company and may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. These transactions might include proxy contests, tender offers, mergers or other business combinations or purchases of common stock that could give our stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for shares of our common stock. In addition, the sale of these shares of common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our stock price may decline substantially. The exercise of our outstanding options and warrants, or conversion of our outstanding shares of convertible preferred stock, may depress our stock price and dilute your ownership of the company. As of June 30, 2015, the following options, restricted stock units and warrants were outstanding: • Stock options to purchase 4,316,000 shares of common stock at exercise prices ranging from $0.18 to $9.00 per share, not all of which are immediately exercisable. The weighted average exercise price of the outstanding stock options is $1.44 per share. These stock options are employee and non-executive director options. • Warrants to purchase 33,669,000 shares of common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $.84 per share. • An aggregate of 888,000 unvested restricted stock units. In addition, there are currently outstanding 28,000 shares of our Series B convertible preferred stock which the holder may convert into shares of our common stock at a conversion price equal to $2.80 per share. 34 Table of Contents Accordingly, the outstanding 28,000 shares of Series B convertible preferred stock are presently convertible into an aggregate of 250,000 shares of our common stock, which will be available for immediate resale in accordance with the provisions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Further, there are currently outstanding 665,000 shares of Series D preferred stock, which are initially convertible into an aggregate of 6,125,024 shares of common stock at the initial conversion rate of $1.08571 per share commencing six months after the original issue date of the Series D preferred stock (exclusive of any additional shares of common stock that we may elect to issue in lieu of paying cash dividends on the Series D preferred stock). Shares of common stock issued upon conversion of Series D preferred stock may be resold from time to time by a holder in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Further, on June 8, 2015, we issued a principal amount of 900,000 of senior secured convertible debentures and common stock purchase warrants. Subject to certain limitations, the debentures are convertible at any time at the option of the holder into an initial amount of 3.6 million shares of our common stock at an initial conversion price of $0.25 per share. The conversion rate of these debentures is subject to adjustment, including if we issue or sell shares of its common stock or other equity securities for a price per share that is less than the conversion price then in effect, in which event the conversion price will be decreased to equal 85% of such lower price. To the extent that these securities are exercised or converted, or we issue additional common shares, dilution to our stockholders will occur. Moreover, the terms upon which we will be able to obtain additional equity capital may be adversely affected, since the holders of these securities can be expected to exercise or convert them at a time when we would, in all likelihood, be able to obtain any needed capital on terms more favorable to us than the exercise and conversion terms provided by those securities. Further, in the event the conversion price of our outstanding convertible debentures or shares of convertible preferred stock is lower than the actual trading price on the day of conversion, the holders could immediately sell their converted common shares, which would have a dilutive effect on the value of the outstanding common shares. Furthermore, the significant downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock as preferred stock or debentures holders converted these securities and sell the common shares received on conversion could encourage short sales by the holders of preferred stock or other security holders. This would place further downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. Even the mere perception of eventual sales of common shares issued on the conversion of the shares of preferred stock or debentures could lead to a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Our currently outstanding shares of convertible preferred stock or the issuance of additional shares of preferred stock could adversely affect the rights of the holders of shares of our common stock. We have issued a total of 28,000 shares of Series B preferred stock and 665,000 shares of Series D preferred stock and our board is authorized to issue up to an additional 4,307,000 shares of preferred stock without any further action on the part of our stockholders. Pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, our board has the authority to fix and determine the voting rights, rights of redemption and other rights and preferences of preferred stock. Our board may, at any time, authorize the issuance of a series of preferred stock that would grant to holders the preferred right to our assets upon liquidation, the right to receive dividend payments before dividends are distributed to the holders of common stock, and the right to the redemption of the shares, before the redemption of our common stock, which may have a material adverse effect on the rights of the holders of our common stock. In addition, our board, without further stockholder approval (but subject to the rules of the Nasdaq Stock Market) may, at any time, issue large blocks of preferred stock. Pursuant to the certificates of designations governing the rights and preferences of our outstanding shares of Series B preferred stock and Series D preferred stock, each share of preferred stock has certain rights and preferences, including the right to receive dividends in preference to our common stockholders. In addition, we must obtain the approval of the holders of a majority of the shares of outstanding convertible preferred stock in order to: (i) amend, alter or repeal any provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation which would materially adversely affect any of the preferences, rights, powers or privileges of such preferred stock (ii) create, authorize or issue any other class or series of preferred stock on a parity with, or having greater or preferential rights than, the outstanding convertible preferred stock, (iii) redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire for value, or set aside for payment or make 35 Table of Contents available for a sinking fund for the purchase or redemption of, any stock ranking junior to on a parity with the outstanding convertible preferred stock, or (iv) enter into any agreement which would prohibit or restrict our right to pay dividends on the outstanding convertible preferred stock. The need to obtain the approval of holders of our convertible preferred stock before taking these actions could impede our ability to take certain actions that management or our board may consider to be in the best interests of our stockholders. Any failure to obtain such approval could limit our business flexibility, harm our business and result in a decrease in the value of our common stock or convertible preferred stock. We have granted liens on all of our assets to the holders of the certain debt instruments and the senior secured convertible debentures we have issued include additional provisions that could adversely affect the interests of the holders of our common stock. If we are required to repay our outstanding debt securities on their scheduled due date, our financial condition may be adversely affected. On June 8, 2015, we entered into definitive agreements relating to a private placement of up to a principal amount of $3.0 of senior secured convertible debentures (the “Convertible Debentures”) and common stock purchase warrants. An initial closing for an aggregate principal amount of $900,000 of these debentures and warrants to purchase 3,626,667 shares of common stock was held on June 8, 2015. A final closing of up to $2.1 million of these debentures and warrants to purchase 8,400,000 shares of common stock was expected to occur prior to June 24, 2015, but did not transpire. Subject to certain exceptions, the Convertible Debentures rank senior to our existing and future indebtedness and these debentures mature on the one-year anniversary of the issuance date. Subject to certain limitations, the Convertible Debentures are convertible at any time at the option of the holder into shares of our common stock at an initial conversion price of $0.25 per share. If we issue or sell shares of our common stock, rights to purchase shares of its common stock, or securities convertible into shares of its common stock for a price per share that is less than the conversion price then in effect, the conversion price will be decreased to equal 85% of such lower price. Similarly, the warrants issued with the Convertible Debentures have an initial exercise price of $0.30, but such exercise price is subject to adjustment if we issue or sell shares of our common stock or other securities convertible into or exercisable for shares of common stock for a price per share that is less than the conversion price of the Convertible Debentures. The Convertible Debentures bear interest at 9% per annum with interest payable upon maturity or on any earlier redemption date. If we are unable to consummate an additional financing prior to the maturity date of the Convertible Debentures, we will be required to repay these securities, which may have an adverse effect on our cash position. In addition, the Convertible Debentures are secured by a first priority lien on our assets related to our “Inscrybe Referral and Order Management” and “Inscrybe Hospital Discharge” solutions (the “Inscrybe Solutions Business”) in accordance with, and subject to, a security agreement between us and the investors. The Convertible Debentures contain covenants and events of default customary for similar transactions. Accordingly, without the consent of the holders of the Convertible Debentures we must comply with certain restrictions against incurring additional indebtedness and granting additional security interests on our assets. Among the defined events of default are defaults of our payment obligations, breach of any material covenant or representation of the Convertible Debentures or the related transaction agreements, and the commencement of proceedings under applicable U.S. federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar laws either against us or by us. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Convertible Debentures, a holder may require us to repay all or a portion of the Convertible Debentures in cash, at a price equal to 110% of the principal and accrued and unpaid interest. If we are unable to repay the Convertible Debentures when due, or upon an event of default, the holders could foreclose on our encumbered assets. In addition, in August 2015, we issued a senior secured promissory note (the “August Note”) in the aggregate principal amount of $320,000 to MKA 79, LLC, in a private transaction. The August Note is due and payable on December 31, 2015 and interest shall accrue on the August Note at the rate of 10.0% per annum. The August Note is not convertible into any of our equity securities and it contains terms and events of default 36 Table of Contents customary for similar transactions. Accordingly, without the consent of the holder of the August Note we must comply with certain restrictions against incurring additional indebtedness and granting additional security interests on our assets. The events of default defined in the August Note include customary terms, including a default of our payment obligation, a breach of material terms of the August Note and the commencement of bankruptcy proceedings. The August Note is secured by a first priority lien on certain of our assets, as described in a security agreement entered into between the company and the purchaser, which collateral consists of those of our assets other than those covered by the security agreement we entered into with the holders of the Convertible Debentures. In consideration of the loan, we agreed to amend certain of the terms of the existing 5,474,829 Common Stock Purchase Warrants currently held by the lender and an affiliate. In amending these warrants, we agreed to reduce the exercise price of such warrants to $0.17 and to extend the expiration date of the warrants to December 13, 2019. The initial exercise prices of these warrants were between $0.95 and $1.34. The Purchaser is an entity affiliated with J. David Luce, a member of the Company’s board of directors. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage or prevent a takeover, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; and • advance notice provisions in connection with stockholder proposals that may prevent or hinder any attempt by our stockholders to bring business to be considered by our stockholders at a meeting or replace our board of directors. Together these provisions may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of us, adversely affecting the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved staff comments. 