RISK FACTORS As provided for under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we wish to caution stockholders and investors that the following important factors, among others discussed throughout this Report on Form 10-K, in some cases have affected and in some cases could affect our actual results of operations and cause such results to differ materially from those anticipated in forward looking statements made herein. Risks Related to Our Business FAILURE TO INCREASE OUR REVENUE AND KEEP OUR EXPENSES CONSISTENT WITH REVENUES COULD PREVENT US FROM ACHIEVING AND MAINTAINING PROFITABILITY. We incurred losses of approximately $19,184,000, $15,669,000 and $9,839,000 for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Although approximately $4.8 million of our net loss for the 2005 fiscal year is due to non-cash impairment charges associated with goodwill and long-lived assets, we have expended, and will continue to be required to expend, substantial funds to pursue research and development projects and enhance marketing and sales efforts for our Security Software products and otherwise operate our business. Therefore, we will need to generate higher revenue from our Security Software Solutions segment to achieve and maintain profitability and cannot assure you that we will be profitable in any future period. Our prospects should be considered in light of the difficulties frequently encountered in connection with the establishment of a new business line, which characterizes our Security Software Solutions segment, such as the difficulty in creating a viable market, the significant related development and marketing costs and the overall competitive environment in which we operate. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve profitable operations in future operating periods. Further, if the revenue generated from our Security Software products is less than anticipated, the carrying value of the goodwill and other long-lived assets may be impaired and require an impairment charge in the future. In 2005, our revenue from our security software products was less than anticipated and therefore we revised and lowered our future revenue projections. As a result, we recognized a non cash impairment charge for goodwill and other long-lived assets aggregating approximately $4.8 million. WE HAVE HISTORICALLY HAD LIMITED WORKING CAPITAL AND HAVE FINANCED OUR OPERATIONS THROUGH PRIVATE PLACEMENTS OF SECURITIES. Our capital requirements have been and will continue to be significant. We have been substantially dependent upon private placements of our securities and on short-term and long-term loans from lending institutions to fund such requirements. We are expending significant amounts of capital to promote and market the Authentidate product line, including the offerings of our Trac Medical Solutions and Authentidate International subsidiaries. Due to these expenditures, we have incurred significant losses to date. For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2005, June 30, 2004 and June 30, 2003, we used approximately $10,632,000, $6,660,000 and $5,189,000 in cash for operating activities, respectively. In February 2004, we announced the completion of private financings of approximately $73.7 million in which we issued an aggregate of 5,360,370 shares of our common stock. We intend to use the net proceeds from these sales to strengthen our balance sheet, for sales, marketing and other operational and general corporate purposes. We expect the net proceeds received from these transactions to satisfy our cash needs for the foreseeable future. No assurances can be given that we will be able to attain sales levels of our segments and support our costs through revenues derived from operations. If we are unable to attain projected sales levels for our Security Software products, it may be necessary to raise additional capital to fund operations to meet our obligations in the future. 17 IF THE UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE CANCELS OUR AGREEMENT, WE WILL NEED TO INCUR ADDITIONAL COSTS IN OUR EFFORTS TO SUCCESSFULLY COMMERCIALIZE THIS TECHNOLOGY. We entered into the strategic alliance agreement with the United States Postal Service to incorporate our content authentication service into their Electronic Postmark® Service. The Postal Service has the right to cancel the contract in the event we are unable to perform our obligations, including recognizing sufficient revenues, as required by the agreement. Further, the Postal Service has the right to terminate the agreement at its convenience. When we initially entered into our agreement with the Postal Service in July 2002, we agreed on certain performance metrics. The original revenue metric had not been attained and in September 2004 the Postal Service notified us of a failure to comply with the revenue metric, which commenced a six month period to achieve compliance with the metrics. We began negotiating with the Postal Service to complete a modification of this metric and in December 2004 believed that we cured the default. Despite those actions, on May 27, 2005, the United States Postal Service delivered a second notice stating that we had failed to attain the performance metrics required by the Strategic Alliance Agreement during the period February 2005 through April 2005. In its notice, the Postal Service has advised us that although it intends to exercise its right to terminate the Strategic Alliance Agreement if we are unable to cure this default, it is willing to discuss further plans that we may have to attain the performance metrics in the Strategic Alliance Agreement. We have continued our efforts to cure the default claimed by the USPS and to modify the Strategic Alliance Agreement. No assurances, however, can be given that we will be successful in completing any negotiations or that we will comply with the current performance metric in a timely manner. If we are unsuccessful in either of these tasks, the Postal Service may terminate the agreement. If the Postal Service terminates the agreement, we will not generate any revenue from the sales of EPMs. Further, if we are unable to commence realizing revenue from the EPM product, we will incur additional costs in exploring and developing alternative avenues in which to successfully market this technology. As described below, we have recorded an impairment charge of approximately $3.9 million of goodwill related to Authentidate, Inc. See the discussion under the section captioned “Item 9B. Other Information”. WE RELY TO A CERTAIN EXTENT ON OUR PRODUCTS' COMPATIBILITY WITH MICROSOFT CORPORATION'S PRODUCTS FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF A MARKET FOR THE USPS EPM. On October 21, 2003 we launched an interface with Microsoft Office to provide for an interface with the USPS EPM. This represents an important element of our strategy to develop a market for the USPS EPM product. In the future, we expect to derive a substantial amount of business through this channel. We cannot provide assurance that we will achieve expected sales levels from this relationship. Microsoft is under no obligation for any purchase commitments or guarantees and the agreement does not obligate Microsoft to purchase USPS EPM transactions. Further, Microsoft may terminate this initiative at its convenience. In the event we do not achieve meaningful results from this relationship in the foreseeable future or Microsoft elects to terminate this relationship, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be significantly harmed. 18 WE HAVE BEEN NAMED AS A PARTY TO SEVERAL CLASS ACTION AND DERIVATIVE ACTION LAWSUITS, AND WE MAY BE NAMED IN ADDITIONAL LITIGATION, ALL OF WHICH COULD REQUIRE SIGNIFICANT MANAGEMENT TIME AND ATTENTION AND RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT LEGAL EXPENSES. AN UNFAVORABLE OUTCOME IN ONE OR MORE OF THESE LAWSUITS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND CASH FLOWS. As described in detail at “Item 3. Legal Proceedings,” below, several purported class action complaints were filed in federal court alleging that we and certain of our current and former officers and directors violated the federal securities laws. Subsequently, four purported shareholder derivative actions were filed against certain current and former officers and directors based on allegations substantially similar to those set forth in the purported class actions. For more information pertaining to these actions, see the section of this Annual Report entitled “Item 3. Legal Proceedings”. The expense of defending such litigation may be substantial and the time required to defend the actions could divert management's attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, an unfavorable outcome in such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. THE FAILURE TO PROPERLY MANAGE OUR GROWTH COULD CAUSE OUR BUSINESS TO LOSE MONEY. We intend to expand our marketing and distribution efforts relating to our Security Software Solutions segment in the near future in order to develop and pursue existing and potential market opportunities. This growth is expected to place a significant demand on management and operational resources. In order to manage growth effectively, we must implement and improve our operational systems and controls on a timely basis. If we fail to implement these systems and controls, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be materially and adversely affected. OUR SUCCESS IS DEPENDENT ON THE PERFORMANCE AND INTEGRATION OF OUR NEW MANAGEMENT AND THE COOPERATION, PERFORMANCE AND RETENTION OF OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND KEY EMPLOYEES. Surendra Pai joined as our chief executive officer on November 15, 2004. Our business and operations are substantially dependent on the performance and integration of our new CEO and senior management team as well as the performance of our other senior managers and executive officers. These persons have worked together for only a short period of time. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance on any of our executive officers. The loss of one or several key employees could seriously harm our business. Any reorganization or reduction in the size of our employee base could harm our ability to attract and retain other valuable employees critical to the success of our business. OUR REPORTED FINANCIAL RESULTS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY CHANGES IN FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS OR BY THE APPLICATION OF EXISTING OR FUTURE ACCOUNTING STANDARDS TO OUR BUSINESS AS IT EVOLVES. As a result of the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the review of accounting policies by the SEC and national and international accounting standards bodies, the frequency of accounting policy changes may accelerate. For example, the FASB has issued a new standard that will require us to adopt a different method of determining and accounting for the compensation expense of our employee stock options. This and other possible changes to accounting standards, could adversely affect our reported results of operations although not necessarily our cash flows. Further, accounting policies affecting software revenue recognition have been the subject of frequent interpretations, which could significantly affect the way we account for revenue related to our products. As we enhance, expand and diversify our business and product offerings, the application of existing or future financial accounting standards, particularly those relating to the way we account for revenue, could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results although not necessarily on our cash flows. 19 WE EXPECT THAT ACCOUNTING FOR EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTIONS USING THE FAIR VALUE METHOD WILL HAVE A MATERIAL IMPACT ON OUR CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND EARNINGS PER SHARE. In December 2004, FASB issued SFAS 123R, which requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values in the first annual period beginning after July 1, 2005. We expect that the adoption of SFAS 123R will have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations and earnings per share. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for more information regarding accounting for stock-based compensation plans. We cannot predict what effect the reduction in our net income may have on the market prices of our securities. IF THE CARRYING VALUE OF OUR LONG-LIVED ASSETS IS NOT RECOVERABLE, AN IMPAIRMENT LOSS MUST BE RECOGNIZED WHICH WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS. We will evaluate our long-lived assets, including property and equipment, goodwill, acquired product rights, and other intangible assets, whenever events or circumstances occur which indicate that these assets might be impaired. Goodwill is evaluated annually for impairment in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, regardless of events and circumstances. As described below, we have recorded an impairment charge of approximately $4.8 million of goodwill and other long-term intangible assets. See the discussion under the section captioned “Item 9B. Other Information”. As of June 30, 2005, we have approximately $7,300,000 of goodwill remaining from our acquisitions of Authentidate, Inc. and Authentidate International, A.G. We will continue to evaluate the recoverability of the carrying amount of our long-lived assets, and we may incur substantial impairment charges, which could adversely affect our financial results. WE HAVE INCURRED SIGNIFICANT ADDITIONAL COSTS CONCERNING OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS AND MAY INCUR ADDITIONAL COSTS IN THE FUTURE. On March 15, 2002, we consummated a transaction to acquire the 61% of the outstanding capital shares of Authentidate International, AG held by our co-venturers for an aggregate of 1,425,875 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase 100,000 shares of our common stock. In connection with this transaction, certain of the sellers also surrendered to us for cancellation an aggregate of 250,000 warrants to purchase shares of our common stock which were previously issued to them. Further, we entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Jan C.E. Wendenburg, pursuant to which Mr. Wendenburg will serve as the Chief Executive Officer of Authentidate International, AG, for a three year term. In consideration of his services, Mr. Wendenburg received a base salary of approximately US$307,000 during the 2005 fiscal year. Further, we entered into a new two-year employment agreement with Mr. Wendenburg in March 2005 pursuant to which he will receive a base salary of approximately, $244,600 through March 31, 2006 and $256,900 thereafter, assuming current exchange rates. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005, we advanced approximately $1.4 million to this subsidiary. Of this amount, approximately $600,000 is an additional investment. We cannot provide any assurance that we will recoup any of these amounts from this subsidiary. We expect to incur additional costs in the future in connection with the operations of this subsidiary. 20 OUR SOFTWARE PRODUCTS AND WEB SITE MAY BE SUBJECT TO INTENTIONAL DISRUPTION. Although we believe we have sufficient controls in place to prevent intentional disruptions, such as software viruses specifically designed to impede the performance of our products, we may be affected by future such efforts. Similarly, experienced computer programmers, or hackers, may attempt to penetrate our network security or the security of our web site and misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions of our services. Our activities could be substantially disrupted and our reputation, and future sales, harmed if these efforts are successful. OUR SECURITY SOFTWARE PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS MAY NOT BE ACCEPTED BY THE MARKET, WHICH WOULD SERIOUSLY HARM OUR BUSINESS. Demand and market acceptance for our software security offerings remain subject to a high level of uncertainty. Achieving widespread acceptance of these products will continue to require substantial marketing efforts and the expenditure of significant funds to create and maintain brand recognition and customer demand for such products. There can be no assurance that adequate marketing arrangements will be made and continued for such products and there can be no assurance that any of these products will ever achieve or maintain widespread market acceptance or that the sale of such products will be profitable. IF WE CANNOT CONTINUOUSLY ENHANCE OUR PRODUCTS IN RESPONSE TO RAPID CHANGES IN THE MARKET, OUR BUSINESS WILL BE HARMED. The software-based services industry and computer industry are characterized by extensive research and development efforts which result in the frequent introduction of new products which render existing products obsolete. Our ability to compete successfully in the future will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a technically competent research and development staff and our ability to adapt to technological changes in the industry and enhance and improve existing products and successfully develop and market new products that meet the changing needs of our customers. Although we are dedicated to continued research and development of our products with a view towards offering products with the most advanced capabilities, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to develop new products on a regular basis which will be competitive with products offered by other manufacturers. At the present time, we do not have a targeted level of expenditures for research and development. We will evaluate all opportunities but believe the majority of our research and development will be devoted to enhancements of our existing products. Technological improvements in new products that we and our competitors offer, as well as the general decline in the economy and other factors, have resulted in recent declines in retail prices for computer products. As competitive pressures have increased, many companies have ceased operation and liquidated inventories, further increasing downward pricing pressure. Such declines have, in the past, and may in the future, reduce our profit margins. WE DO NOT HAVE PATENTS ON ALL THE TECHNOLOGY WE USE, WHICH COULD HARM OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION. We do not currently hold any issued patents and the technology embodied in some of our current products cannot be patented. We have three U.S. and six foreign patent applications pending relating to the Authentidate technology including relating to verifying the authenticity of digital images and relating to the associated business process. We have registered the trademarks “Authentidate,” “DocStar” and the DocStar logo as trademarks in the United States. We have also sought to register seven additional trademarks in the United States. We have also registered the trademark “Authentidate” in Germany and Europe. In connection with our Trac Medical Solutions business, we have three U.S. and five foreign patent applications pending, have registered the trademark “CareCert” and have sought to register five additional trademarks, including the marks “Trac Medical” and “TracMed.” We rely on confidentiality agreements with our key employees to the extent we deem it to be necessary. We further intend to file patent applications for any new products we may develop, to the extent that we believe that any technology included in such products is patentable. There can be no assurance that any patents in fact, will be issued or that any such patents that do issue will be effective to protect our products from duplication by other manufacturers or developers. 21 Other companies operating within our business segment may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or otherwise obtain access to our know-how. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to afford the expense of any litigation which may be necessary to enforce our rights under any patent. Although we believe that the products we sell do not and will not infringe upon the patents or violate the proprietary rights of others, it is possible that such infringement or violation has occurred or may occur. On August 25, 2005, we became aware of an action filed against us entitled TimeCertain LLC vs. Authentidate Holding Corporation, Authentidate, Inc. and NCipher Inc. The plaintiff in this matter has claimed that our products and systems incorporating secure time-stamping technology, including but not limited to the USPS Electronic Postmark system, infringes certain of its patent rights. We are reviewing this complaint and intend to vigorously contest this action. We have investigated other patents held by third parties of which we are aware to determine whether any of our current products infringe on the claims made in these patents and believe that our products do not infringe on these patent claims. Although we have not received notice of any other claims that our products are infringing, we can not provide any assurances that our commercial products do not infringe upon any other patents, including the patents we have investigated. As described below, we are currently defending a claim by Shore Venture Group, in which it alleges, among other things, rights under one of our patent applications and damages in connection with an alleged copyright infringement. Prior to the commencement of this case, we had conducted extensive settlement negotiations with Shore Venture in an effort to resolve all claims between the parties. We are defending this action vigorously. In the event that products we sell are deemed to infringe upon the patents or proprietary rights of others, we could be required to modify our products or obtain a license for the manufacture, use and/or sale of such products. There can be no assurance that, in such an event, we would be able to do so in a timely manner, upon acceptable terms and conditions, or at all, and the failure to do any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect upon our business. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will have the financial or other resources necessary to enforce or defend a patent infringement or proprietary rights violation action. In addition, if our products or proposed products are deemed to infringe upon the patents or proprietary rights of others, we could, under certain circumstances, become liable for damages or subject to an injunction, which could also have a material adverse effect on our business. WE DEPEND ON OTHERS FOR COMPONENTS OF OUR PRODUCTS, WHICH MAY RESULT IN DELAYS AND QUALITY-CONTROL ISSUES. We do not own or lease any manufacturing facilities. Rather, we purchase components and finished products, such as personal computers from unaffiliated suppliers. DJS and DocStar acquire computer hardware from manufacturers or third party resellers. We believe that at the present time we have sufficient sources of supply of computer equipment, and that in the event any existing supplier ceases to furnish these to us, alternative sources are available. In addition, our software products incorporate elements which we license from unaffiliated third-parties. We believe that adequate alternative suppliers of these products are available on commercially reasonable terms. However, there can be no assurance that the future production capacity of our current suppliers and manufacturers will be sufficient to satisfy our requirements or that alternate suppliers and manufacturers will be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Further, there can be no assurance that the availability of such supplies will continue in the future. 22 IF OUR PRODUCTS ARE NOT COMPETITIVE, OUR BUSINESS WILL SUFFER. Authentidate Holding Corp. and its subsidiaries are engaged in the highly competitive businesses of developing document imaging software and distributing turn-key document imaging systems, developing software-based authentication products, and reselling computer hardware and software as well as technical support services for such businesses. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our markets include fault-tolerance, reliability, performance, ease of use, scalability, manageability, price and customer service and support. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully incorporate these factors into our products and to compete against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures we face will not harm our business. If we are unable to develop and market products to compete with the products of competitors, our business will be materially and adversely affected. The document imaging business is competitive and we compete with major manufacturers. Many of these companies have substantially more experience, greater sales, as well as greater financial and distribution resources than do we. Our Security Software Solutions segment, including the USPS EPM and the products offered by Trac Medical Solutions and Authentidate International, are relatively new business lines and although the level of competition across the product line is unknown at this point in time, the field of software-based security solutions is highly competitive. There can be no assurances, however, that any of these products, including the service offered through the U.S. Postal Service, will achieve market acceptance. Our DJS subsidiary is engaged in the highly competitive business of systems integration, computer services and computer reselling. DJS competes with many small and local companies which provide similar technical services to those offered by DJS. Additionally, DJS must compete with other computer resellers, many of whom have greater financial and technical resources. There can be no assurance that DJS will be able to compete successfully with these competitors. We also expect that competition will increase as a result of industry consolidations and the formation of new companies with new, innovative product offerings. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share, any of which could harm our business. OUR SOFTWARE PRODUCTS ARE COMPLEX AND ARE OPERATED IN A WIDE VARIETY OF COMPUTER CONFIGURATIONS, WHICH COULD RESULT IN ERRORS OR PRODUCT FAILURES. Our software products, including our Security Software products and DocSTAR products are complex and may contain undetected errors, failures or bugs that may arise when they are first introduced or when new versions are released. These products may be installed and used in large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures in our products or may expose undetected errors, failures or bugs in our products. Our customers' computer environments are often characterized by a wide variety of configurations that make pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors difficult and time-consuming. Despite testing by us and by others, errors, failures or bugs may not be found in new products or releases after commencement of commercial shipments. Errors, failures or bugs in our products could result in negative publicity, product returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products or claims by customers or others. Alleviating these problems could require significant expenditures of our capital and resources and could cause interruptions, delays or cessation of our product licensing, which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers and would adversely affect our financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows. Most of our license agreements with customers contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims. It is possible, however, that these provisions may not prove effective in limiting our liability. 23 Risks Related to Our Common Stock BY FURTHER INCREASING THE NUMBER OF SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK THAT WERE SOLD INTO THE MARKET IN OUR PRIVATE OFFERING , THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD DROP SIGNIFICANTLY, EVEN IF OUR BUSINESS IS DOING WELL. On February 4, 2004, we completed two private placement financings in which we sold to the selling stockholders an aggregate of 5,360,370 shares of our common stock. We agreed to register for resale the common stock issued in the financing, which registration statement was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission. All of these shares of common stock are presently freely saleable. Sales of these shares in the public market, or the perception that future sales of these shares could occur, could have the effect of lowering the market price of our common stock below current levels and make it more difficult for us and our shareholders to sell our equity securities in the future. The principal terms and conditions of the financing are set forth in (i) the Securities Purchase Agreement, dated January 28, 2004 and (ii) the Registration Rights Agreement, dated January 28, 2004, each of which has been filed as an exhibit a Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 5, 2004. You are encouraged to review the full text of these documents. OUR STOCK PRICE IS VOLATILE AND COULD DECLINE. The price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. For example, our stock price during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005 traded as low as $2.32 per share and as high as $10.96 per share. We cannot assure you that your initial investment in our common stock will not fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • quarterly variations in our operating results; • announcements we make regarding significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, or joint ventures; additions or departures of key personnel; • the introduction of competitive products by existing or new competitors; • uncertainty about and customer confidence in the current economic conditions and outlook; • reduced demand for any given product; and • sales of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general, and companies whose stock is listed on The Nasdaq National Market, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. 24 SINCE WE HAVE NOT PAID DIVIDENDS ON OUR COMMON STOCK, YOU MAY NOT RECEIVE INCOME FROM THIS INVESTMENT. We have not paid any dividends on our common stock since our inception and do not contemplate or anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Earnings, if any, will be used to finance the development and expansion of our business. THE EXERCISE OF OUR OUTSTANDING OPTIONS AND WARRANTS, OR CONVERSION OF OUR OUTSTANDING SHARES OF SERIES B PREFERRED STOCK, MAY DEPRESS OUR STOCK PRICE. As of June 30, 2005, there were outstanding the following options and warrants: • Stock options to purchase an aggregate of 4,234,498 shares of common stock at exercise prices ranging from $1.75 to $18.20 per share, not all of which are immediately exercisable. The weighted average exercise price of the outstanding stock options is $5.31. • Immediately exercisable warrants to purchase an aggregate of 1,276,314 shares of common stock at exercise prices ranging from $2.50 to $20.00 per share. The weighted average exercise price of the outstanding warrants is $5.88. In addition, there are currently outstanding 28,000 shares of our Series B Preferred Stock. The holder of the Series B Preferred Stock may convert these shares into shares of our common stock at a conversion price equal to $1.40. Accordingly, the outstanding 28,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock are presently convertible into an aggregate of 500,000 shares of our common stock. To the extent that these securities are exercised or converted, dilution to our shareholders will occur. Moreover, the terms upon which we will be able to obtain additional equity capital may be adversely affected, since the holders of these securities can be expected to exercise or convert them at a time when we would, in all likelihood, be able to obtain any needed capital on terms more favorable to us than the exercise and conversion terms provided by those securities. Further, in the event the conversion price of the Series B Preferred Stock is lower than the actual trading price on the day of conversion, the holder could immediately sell all of its converted common shares, which would have a dilutive effect on the value of the outstanding common shares. Furthermore, the significant downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock as Series B Preferred Stock holders converted these securities and sell the common shares received on conversion could encourage short sales by the holders of Series B Preferred Stock or other shareholders. This would place further downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. Even the mere perception of eventual sales of common shares issued on the conversion of the Series B Preferred Stock could lead to a decline in the trading price of our common stock. 25 WE HAVE SOLD RESTRICTED SHARES WHICH MAY DEPRESS OUR STOCK PRICE WHEN THEY ARE SELLABLE UNDER RULE 144. As of June 30, 2005, there were 1,928,867 shares of restricted common stock currently outstanding which may be deemed “restricted securities” as that term is defined under the Securities Act of 1933, and in the future, may be sold pursuant to a registration under the Act, in compliance with Rule 144 under the Act, or pursuant to another exemption. Rule 144 provides, that, in general, a person holding restricted securities for a period of one year may, every three months thereafter, sell in brokerage transactions an amount of shares which does not exceed the greater of one percent of our then outstanding common stock or the average weekly trading volume of the common stock during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale. Rule 144 also permits, under certain circumstances, the sale of shares without any quantity limitations by a person who is not an affiliate of ours and was not an affiliate at any time during the 90 day period prior to sale and who has satisfied a two year holding period. Sales of our common stock by certain present stockholders under Rule 144 may, in the future, have a depressive effect on the market price of our securities. In addition, the sale of shares by officers and directors and other affiliated shareholders may also have a depressive effect on the market for our securities. WE HAVE A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARDS WHICH WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO UTILIZE IN CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES. At June 30, 2005, the date of our most recent fiscal year end, we had net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLS”) for federal income tax purposes of approximately $65,000,000 available to offset future taxable income. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, utilization of prior NOLS is limited after an ownership change, as defined in Section 382, to an annual amount equal to the value of the corporation's outstanding stock immediately before the date of the ownership change multiplied by the federal long-term exempt tax rate. Use of our NOLS could also be limited as a result of grants of stock options under stock option plans and other events. In the event we achieve profitable operations, any significant limitation on the utilization of NOLS would have the effect of increasing our current tax liability. 