ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS As provided for under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we wish to caution shareholders and investors that the following important factors, among others discussed throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, have affected, and in some cases could affect, our actual results of operation and cause our results to differ materially from those anticipated in forward looking statements made herein. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected due to any of the following risks. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our financial statements and related notes. 7 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Failure to increase our revenue and keep our expenses consistent with revenues could prevent us from achieving and maintaining profitability. We incurred net losses of approximately $15,811,000, $15,063,000, and $17,823,000 for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $137,000,000 as of June 30, 2008. We have expended, and will continue to be required to expend, substantial funds to pursue product development projects, enhance our marketing and sales efforts and to otherwise operate our business. Therefore, we will need to generate higher revenues to achieve and maintain profitability and cannot assure you that we will be profitable in any future period. Our prospects should be considered in light of the difficulties frequently encountered in connection with the establishment of a new business line, which characterizes our business, such as the difficulty in creating a viable market, the significant related development and marketing costs and the overall competitive environment in which we operate. This risk may be more acute in light of our disposition of our other operating segments. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve profitable operations in future operating periods. Our capital requirements are significant and we have historically financed our operations through private placements of securities. Our capital requirements have been and will continue to be significant. We have been substantially dependent upon private placements of our securities and on short-term and long-term loans from lending institutions to fund such requirements. We are expending significant amounts of capital to develop, promote and market our software and services, such as our Inscrybe Healthcare platform and related modules and our Inscrybe Office offering. Due to these expenditures, we have incurred significant losses to date. We used approximately $14,903,000, $14,852,000, and $13,743,000 in cash for continuing operating activities for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We expect the proceeds received from our February 2004 private financing, in which we raised approximately $69,100,000 in net proceeds, and cash generated from operations and asset sales, to satisfy our cash needs for at least the next twelve months. No assurances can be given that we will be able to attain sales levels and support our costs through revenues derived from operations. If we are unable to attain projected revenue levels for our business, it may be necessary to raise additional capital to fund operations and to meet our obligations in the future. If the United States Postal Service cancels our new license agreement, we may need to incur additional costs in our efforts to successfully commercialize this technology. In July 2007, we entered into a new three-year license agreement with the U.S. Postal Service® (USPS) to act as a non-exclusive authorized service provider of the USPS Electronic Postmark® (EPM). Pursuant to this license agreement, the USPS granted the company a non-exclusive, worldwide license to use its applicable trademarks and other intellectual property rights for the EPM service in order to enable us to offer the EPM service directly to the market. The USPS will define and maintain the technical and operational standards for the EPM service, and serve as backup verifier for all EPM transactions. Authentidate is the first provider to be authorized in a new standards-based EPM service model created by the USPS to help ensure performance standards and facilitate the development of a multi-provider environment. We have operated the EPM service on behalf of the USPS since March 2003, under a strategic alliance agreement that expired on July 31, 2007. This license agreement is effective as of August 1, 2007 and will expire in three years unless it is sooner terminated in accordance with its terms. Either party may terminate the agreement upon written notice if the other party is in material breach of any provision thereof, subject to applicable cure periods. In addition, either party may terminate this agreement for any reason, upon 120 days notice to the other party. The USPS will also have the right to terminate the license agreement upon written notice in connection with a change in control transaction affecting Authentidate. No assurances can be given that the USPS will not terminate this agreement which termination could adversely affect our ability to commercialize this technology. 8 Table of Contents Our license with the USPS may also be adversely affected by recently enacted legislation regarding the USPS. On December 20, 2006, the President signed into law PL 109-435. This statute defines as “postal services” essentially the carriage of paper and printed matter, but grandfathers other services that were being offered by the USPS as of January 1, 2006, which we believe would include the EPM. However, the legislation further directs the Postal Regulatory Commission (PRC) to review non-postal services within two years to determine whether they should continue taking into account “the public need for the service” and “the ability of the private sector to meet the public need for the service.” Based upon this legislation, the PRC may review the current licensing arrangement for the EPM. Accordingly, there can be no assurance the USPS will not terminate this licensing program, which could adversely affect our ability to commercialize this technology. We depend on growth in the software as a service market, and lack of growth or contraction in this market could materially adversely affect our sales and financial condition. Our software and internet solutions compete with other “software as a service” solutions. Demand for our solutions and software offerings is driven by several factors, including an increased focus on protecting business-critical applications, government and industry regulations requiring data protection and integrity, and the growth in the market for software as a service. Segments of the computer and software industry have in the past experienced significant economic downturns and decreases in demand as a result of changing market factors. A change in the market factors that are driving demand for offerings of software as a service could adversely affect our sales, profitability and financial condition. We have been named as a party to several class action and derivative action lawsuits, and we may be named in additional litigation, all of which could require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses. An unfavorable outcome in one or more of these lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As described in detail at Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, several purported class action complaints were filed in federal court alleging that the company and certain of our current and former directors and former officers violated the federal securities laws. Subsequently, four purported shareholder derivative actions were filed against certain current and former directors and former officers based on allegations substantially similar to those set forth in the purported class actions. The expense of defending such litigation may be substantial and the time required to defend the actions could divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, an unfavorable outcome in such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. Our success is dependent on the performance of our management and the cooperation, performance and retention of our executive officers and key employees. Our business and operations are substantially dependent on the performance of our senior management team and executive officers. If our management team is unable to perform it may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance on any of our executive officers. The loss of one or several key employees could seriously harm our business. Any reorganization or reduction in the size of our employee base could harm our ability to attract and retain other valuable employees critical to the success of our business. If we lose key personnel or fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully, our ability to manage our business could be impaired. Our future success depends upon the continued service of our key management, technical, sales, finance, and other critical personnel. Other than our President, CFO and the President of our German operation, our key personnel do not have employment agreements and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them. Key 9 Table of Contents personnel have left our company in the past and there likely will be additional departures of key personnel from time to time in the future. The loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, and the results of our operations. In addition, hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement sales and other personnel could be time consuming, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future revenues. Our reported financial results could be adversely affected by changes in financial accounting standards or by the application of existing or future accounting standards to our business as it evolves. For example, accounting for employee stock options under FAS 123(R) has had a material impact on our consolidated results of operations and earnings per share. As a result of the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the review of accounting policies by the SEC and national and international accounting standards bodies, the frequency of accounting policy changes may accelerate. For example, the adoption of FAS123(R) in fiscal 2006 required us to adopt a different method of determining and accounting for the compensation expense of our employee stock options. As a result of the adoption of FAS 123(R), our losses during fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006 were higher than they would have been had we not been required to adopt FAS 123(R). This will continue to be the case for future periods. This and other possible changes to accounting standards, could adversely affect our reported results of operations. Further, accounting policies affecting software revenue recognition have been the subject of frequent interpretations, which could significantly affect the way we account for revenue related to our products. As we enhance, expand and diversify our business and product offerings, the application of existing or future financial accounting standards, particularly those relating to the way we account for revenue, could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results although not necessarily on our cash flows. If the carrying value of our long-lived assets is not recoverable, an impairment loss must be recognized which would adversely affect our financial results. We evaluate our long-lived assets, including property and equipment, goodwill, acquired product rights, and other intangible assets, whenever events or circumstances occur which indicate that these assets might be impaired. Goodwill is evaluated annually for impairment at the end of each fiscal year, regardless of events and circumstances. In fiscal 2005 we recorded an impairment charge of approximately $4,800,000 for goodwill and other long-term intangible assets. As of June 30, 2008, we had approximately $7,300,000 of goodwill principally from our acquisition of our German subsidiary, Authentidate International, AG. We will continue to evaluate the recoverability of the carrying amount of our long-lived assets, and we may incur substantial impairment charges, which could adversely affect our financial results. We have incurred significant additional costs concerning our international operations and may incur additional costs in the future. We have incurred substantial costs in supporting the operation of our German subsidiary, Authentidate International, AG. In June 2008, we entered into a new one-year employment agreement with Mr. Jan Wendenburg, the Chief Executive Officer of Authentidate International, pursuant to which he will receive a base salary of approximately, 210,000 Euros. Further, for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we advanced or made capital investments of approximately $4,227,000 to this subsidiary. We cannot provide any assurance that we will recoup any of these amounts from this subsidiary. We expect to incur additional costs in the future in connection with the operations of this subsidiary. However, if the proposed merger with Parascript is completed we will no longer own Authentidate International and will not incur additional costs in the future related to the operation of this subsidiary. 10 Table of Contents Developing and implementing new or updated software and services may take longer and cost more than expected. We rely on a combination of internal development, strategic relationships, licensing and acquisitions to develop our software and services. The cost of developing new software and services, such as Inscrybe Healthcare and related modules and Inscrybe Office, is inherently difficult to estimate. Our development and implementation of proposed software and services may take longer than originally expected, require more testing than originally anticipated and require the acquisition of additional personnel and other resources. If we are unable to develop new or updated software and services on a timely basis and implement them without significant disruptions to the existing systems and processes of our customers, we may lose potential revenues and harm our relationships with current or potential customers. New or updated software and services will not become profitable unless they achieve sufficient levels of market acceptance, which may require significant efforts and costs. There can be no assurance that customers and potential customers will accept from us new or updated software and services. The future results of our business will depend, in significant part, on the success of our software and services. Current and potential customers may choose to use similar products and services offered by our competitors or may not purchase new or updated software or services, especially when they are initially offered and if they require changes in equipment or workflow. For software and services we are developing or may develop in the future, there can be no assurance that we will attract sufficient customers or that such software and services will generate sufficient revenues to cover the costs of developing, marketing and providing such software and services. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that any pricing strategy that we implement for any new software and services will be economically viable or acceptable to the target markets. Failure to achieve broad penetration in target markets with respect to new or updated software and services could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects. Further, achieving market acceptance for new or updated software and services is likely to require substantial marketing efforts and expenditure of significant funds to create awareness and demand by potential customers. We do not have patents on all the technology we use, which could harm our competitive position. On May 2, 2006, we were issued our first U.S. patent and we also have seven issued foreign patents. Our April 17, 2008 the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office mailed a Notice of Allowance for another of our patent applications to issue as a patent. In addition, we have nine U.S., ten foreign and one PCT patent applications pending relating to the technology and business processes underlying our services and applications. However, some of the technology embodied in some of our current products cannot be patented. We have registered the trademarks “Authentidate” and “CareCert” in the U.S., the trademark “Authentidate” in Germany and in the European Community and a number of other trademarks as Madrid Protocol international registrations. We have also sought to register a number of additional trademarks in the U.S. and certain foreign markets, including “Inscrybe,” “MyInscrybe” and “Inscrybe Office.” We continue to take steps to protect our intellectual property rights including filing additional trademark and patent applications where appropriate. We rely on confidentiality agreements with our key employees to the extent we deem it to be necessary. We further intend to file patent applications for any new products we may develop, to the extent that we believe that any technology included in such products is patentable. There can be no assurance that any patents in fact, will be issued or that any such patents that do issue will be effective to protect our products and services from duplication by other manufacturers or developers or to prevent our competitors from offering similar products and services. Other companies operating within our business segments may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or otherwise obtain access to our know-how, much of which is maintained as trade secrets. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to afford the expense of any litigation which may be necessary to enforce our rights under any patent. Although we believe that the products we sell do not and will not infringe upon the patents or violate the proprietary rights of others, it is possible that such infringement or violation has occurred or may occur. We have investigated patents held by third parties of which 11 Table of Contents we are aware and believe that our products and services do not infringe on the claims of these patents. Although we have not received notice of any other claims that our products or services are infringing, we can not provide any assurances that our products and services do not infringe upon any third party patents, including the patents we have investigated. In the event that products we sell or services we provide are deemed to infringe upon the patents or proprietary rights of others, we could be required to modify our products and/or services or obtain a license for the manufacture, use and/or sale of such products and services. There can be no assurance that, in such an event, we would be able to do so in a timely manner, upon acceptable terms and conditions, or at all, and the failure to do any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect upon our business. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will have the financial or other resources necessary to defend against a patent infringement or proprietary rights violation action. In addition, if our products, services or proposed products or services are deemed to infringe upon the patents or proprietary rights of others, we could, under certain circumstances, become liable for damages or subject to an injunction, which could also have a material adverse effect on our business. Because we derive a majority of our revenues from a few software and service offerings, any decline in demand for these offerings could severely harm our ability to generate revenues. We derive a majority of our revenues from a limited number of software and service offerings. In addition, our focus on building our business is concentrated on markets for software and services where content integrity, workflow automation, electronic signatures and time and date stamping are important to customers. As a result, we are particularly vulnerable to fluctuations in demand for these offerings, whether as a result of competition, product obsolescence, technological change, customer spending, or other factors. If our revenues derived from our software and service offerings were to decline significantly, our business and operating results would be adversely affected. Additionally, for the year ended June 30, 2008 we reported that one customer accounted for approximately 18% of our consolidated revenues. As a result, if our relationships with this or other significant customers were disrupted we could lose a significant percentage of our anticipated revenues which could have material adverse effect on our business. Some of our software and service offerings have long and unpredictable sales cycles, which may impact our quarterly operating results. Transactions for some of our software and service offerings require customers to undertake customized installations to integrate the solutions into their legacy systems and require them to modify existing business practices. The period from our initial contact with a potential customer until the execution of an agreement is difficult to predict and can be in excess of six months. The sales cycles for these transactions can be long and unpredictable due to a number of uncertainties such as: • customers’ budgetary constraints; • the need to educate potential customers about our software and service offerings; • the timing of customers’ budget cycles; • delays caused by customers’ internal review processes; • customers’ willingness to invest resources and modify their network infrastructures to take advantage of our offerings; and • for sales to government customers, governmental regulatory, approval and purchasing requirements. We are unable to control or influence many of these factors. Further, we have experienced delays in the pace of adoption and use by our customers of our transaction-based offerings, such as Inscrybe Healthcare, which has adversely affected our earnings. We may experience similar delays with Inscrybe Office as well. During the sales cycle and the implementation period, we may expend substantial time, effort and money preparing contract 12 Table of Contents proposals, negotiating contracts and implementing solutions without receiving any related revenue. In addition, many of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short term, including personnel costs and technology and infrastructure costs. Accordingly, our inability to generate sufficient revenues from these offerings has a direct impact on our results of operations. The failure to properly manage our growth could cause our business to lose money. We are expanding our sales and marketing efforts in order to develop and pursue existing and potential market opportunities. This growth is expected to place a significant demand on management and operational resources. In order to manage growth effectively, we must implement and improve our operational systems and controls on a timely basis. If we fail to implement these systems and controls, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be materially and adversely affected. Our software and web-based services and web site may be subject to intentional disruption. Although we believe we have sufficient controls in place to prevent intentional disruptions, such as software viruses specifically designed to impede the performance of our software and web-based services, we may be affected by such efforts in the future. Further, despite the implementation of security measures, this infrastructure or other systems that we interface with, including the Internet and related systems, may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, hackers, improper employee or contractor access, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems, resulting in the potential misappropriation of our proprietary information or interruptions of our services. Any compromise of our security, whether as a result of our own systems or systems that they interface with, could substantially disrupt our operations, harm our reputation and reduce demand for our services. Performance problems with our systems or system failures could cause us to lose business or incur liabilities. Our customer satisfaction and our business could be harmed if we experience transmission delays or failures or loss of data in the systems we use to provide services to our customers, including transaction-related services. These systems are complex and, despite testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that problems will not occur or that they will be detected and corrected promptly if they do occur. In providing these services, we rely on internal systems as well as communications and hosting services provided by third parties, such as the Internet. To operate without interruption, both we and the service providers we use must guard against: • damage from fire, power loss and other natural disasters; • communications failures; • software and hardware errors, failures or crashes; • security breaches, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems; and • other potential interruptions. We have experienced periodic system interruptions in the past, and we cannot guarantee that they will not occur again. In the event of a catastrophic event at one of our data centers or any third party facility we use, we may experience an extended period of system unavailability, which could negatively impact our business. Further, if such an event caused the loss of stored data, it could have a material adverse impact on our business or cause us to incur material liabilities. Although we maintain insurance for our business, we cannot guarantee that our insurance will be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur or that this coverage will continue to be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts. In addition, some of our web-based services may, at times, be required to accommodate higher than expected volumes of traffic. At those times, we may experience slower response times or system failures. Any 13 Table of Contents sustained or repeated interruptions or disruptions in these systems or slow down in their response times could damage our relationships with customers. Further, the Internet has experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, significant growth in the number of users and the amount of traffic. If the Internet continues to experience increased usage, the Internet infrastructure may be unable to support the demands placed on it which could harm its reliability and performance. Any significant interruptions in our services or increases in response time could result in a loss of potential or existing users of services and, if sustained or repeated, could reduce the attractiveness of our services. Our software and service offerings may not be accepted by the market, which would seriously harm our business. Demand and market acceptance for our software and service offerings remain subject to a high level of uncertainty. Achieving widespread acceptance of these offerings will continue to require substantial marketing efforts and the expenditure of significant funds to create and maintain brand recognition and customer demand for such offerings. Demand for our software and services depend on, among other things: • the perceived ability of our offerings to address real customer problems; • the perceived quality, price, ease-of-use and interoperability of our offerings as compared to our competitors’ offerings; • the market’s perception of how easy or difficult it is to deploy our software or services, especially in complex, network environments; • the continued evolution of electronic commerce as a viable means of conducting business; • market acceptance and use of new technologies and standards; • the ability of network infrastructures to support an increasing number of users and services; • the pace of technological change and our ability to keep up with these changes; and • general economic conditions, which influence how much money our customers and potential customers are willing to allocate to their information technology budgets. There can be no assurance that adequate marketing arrangements will be made and continued for our software and services and there can be no assurance that any of these offerings will ever achieve or maintain widespread market acceptance or that such offerings will be profitable. If we cannot continuously enhance our software and web-based service offerings in response to rapid changes in the market, our business will be harmed. The software-based services industry and computer industry are characterized by extensive research and development efforts which result in the frequent introduction of new products and services which render existing products and services obsolete. Our ability to compete successfully in the future will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a technically competent research and development staff and our ability to adapt to technological changes in the industry and enhance and improve our software and web-based service offerings and successfully develop and market new offerings that meet the changing needs of our customers. Although we are dedicated to continued improvement of our offerings with a view towards satisfying market needs with the most advanced capabilities, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to do so on a regular basis and remain competitive with products offered by other manufacturers. At the present time, we do not have a targeted level of expenditures for research and development. We will evaluate all opportunities but believe the majority of our research and development will be devoted to enhancements of our existing software and web-based services. 14 Table of Contents If our software and web-based service offerings are not competitive, our business will suffer. We are engaged in the highly competitive businesses of developing software-based workflow and authentication offerings. These markets are also continually evolving and, in some cases, subject to rapid technological change. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and other resources than we do. These organizations may be better known than we are and have more customers than we do. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against these organizations. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our markets include performance, ease of use, scalability, manageability, price and customer service and support. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully incorporate these factors into our software and web-based services and compete against current or future competitors or that competitive pressure we face will not harm our business. If we are unable to develop and market products to compete with the products of competitors, our business will be materially and adversely affected. Our business, including Inscrybe Healthcare, Inscrybe Office and our electronic signing solutions are relatively new business lines and although the level of competition for these offerings is unknown at this point in time, the field of software-based solutions is highly competitive. There can be no assurances, however, that any of our offerings will achieve market acceptance. We also expect that competition will increase as a result of industry consolidations and the formation of new companies with new, innovative offerings. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their software and service offerings to address the needs of our prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share, any of which could harm our business. Our software and web-based services are complex and are operated in a wide variety of computer configurations, which could result in errors or product failures. Our software and web-based services are complex and may contain undetected errors, failures or bugs that may arise when they are first introduced or when new versions are released. These offerings may be used in large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures in our software or services or may expose undetected errors, failures or bugs in such offerings. Our customers’ computer environments are often characterized by a wide variety of configurations that make pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors difficult and time-consuming. Despite testing by us and by others, errors, failures or bugs may not be found in new products or releases after commencement of commercial use. Errors, failures or bugs in our offerings could result in negative publicity, returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our software or services or claims by customers or others. Alleviating these problems could require significant expenditures of our capital and resources and could cause interruptions, delays or cessation of our licenses which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers and would adversely affect our financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows. Most of our license agreements with customers contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims. It is possible, however, that these provisions may not prove effective in limiting our liability. We have a significant amount of net operating loss carryforwards which we may not be able to utilize in certain circumstances. At June 30, 2008, we had net operating loss (“NOL”) carry forwards for federal income tax purposes of approximately $105,000,000 available to offset future taxable income. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, following an “ownership change,” special limitations apply to the use by a “loss corporation” of its (i) net operating loss (“NOL”) carry forwards arising before the ownership change and (ii) net unrealized 15 Table of Contents built-in losses (“NUBILs”) (if such losses existed immediately before the ownership change and exceed a statutory threshold amount) recognized during the five years following the ownership change ((i) and (ii) are referred to collectively as the “Applicable Tax Attributes”). After an ownership change, the amount of the loss corporation’s taxable income for each post-change taxable year that may be offset by the Applicable Tax Attributes is limited to the product of the “long-term tax-exempt rate” (published by the IRS for the month of the ownership change) multiplied by the value of the loss corporation’s stock (the “Section 382 Limitation”). To the extent that the loss corporation’s Section 382 Limitation in a given taxable year exceeds its taxable income for the year, that excess increases the Section 382 Limitation in future taxable years. As a result of the proposed merger transaction with Parascript discussed in Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we may experience an ownership change. Under Section 382, the determination of whether an ownership change has occurred is based on ownership shifts involving persons or groups that are or are deemed to be “5% Stockholders.” If the merger results in an ownership change for Authentidate a Section 382 Limitation will apply to the Applicable Tax Attributes of Authentidate. We have not yet determined whether the merger will result in an ownership change. Further, whether or not the merger causes an ownership change, New Authentidate may experience an ownership change after the merger as a result of future changes in the ownership of its stock that could result in additional Section 382 Limitations. Risks Related to the Proposed Merger We have a significant portion of our capital invested in Auction Rate Securities. Authentidate currently has approximately $10,825,000 at par value invested in Auction Rate Securities (“ARS”), which represents all of its marketable securities. While the face value of the ARS owned by Authentidate has not changed, the decline in the U.S. credit markets has impacted the liquidity of financial instruments, including ARS. As a result, the potential value of Authentidate’s ARS portfolio which may be realized upon the sale thereof may be less than the face value of the investments. Consequently, in the event the company is unable to receive sufficient cash funds from the sale of its ARS portfolio prior to the closing date of the planned acquisition of Parascript LLC, it may not be able to pay the closing cash payment for the transaction, and following the payment of the closing cash payment, New Authentidate may not have sufficient net working capital to fund its ongoing business operations and pay expenses related to the merger and the transactions contemplated by the subject agreement and plan of merger. Authentidate’s Stockholders Will Be Substantially Diluted as a Result of the Proposed Merger with Parascript and the Parascript Members Will Own Approximately 46.4% of the Combined Company’s Outstanding Common Shares. Upon the closing of the proposed merger between Authentidate and Parscript, the combined company, referred to as “New Authentidate”, will issue 30,000,000 shares of its common stock as part of the consideration for 100% of Parascript’s outstanding units in the merger. As of September 5, 2008, there were 34,614,833 shares of Authentidate common stock outstanding, and 41,056,934 shares of common stock on a fully diluted basis. Upon completion of the merger, Parascript members will collectively own approximately 46.4% of New Authentidate’s outstanding common stock, and 42.2% of New Authentidate on a fully diluted basis. Therefore, after the merger, the Parascript members will have significant influence over matters of New Authentidate. We May Fail to Realize the Anticipated Benefits of the Merger. The success of the merger will depend, in part, on New Authentidate’s ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and synergies from combining Authentidate and Parascript. The integration of Authentidate and Parascript will be a time consuming and expensive process and may disrupt their operations if it is not completed in a timely and efficient manner. In addition, Authentidate may not achieve anticipated synergies or other benefits of the merger. Following the merger, New Authentidate and Parascript must operate as a combined 16 Table of Contents organization utilizing common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls and human resources practices. We may encounter the following difficulties, costs and delays involved in integrating these operations: • failure to successfully manage relationships with customers and other important relationships; • failure of customers to continue using the services of the combined company; • difficulties in successfully integrating the management teams and employees of Authentidate and Parascript; • challenges encountered in managing larger operations; • the loss of key employees; • diversion of the attention of management from other ongoing business concerns; • potential incompatibility of technologies and systems; • potential impairment charges incurred to write down the carrying amount of intangible assets generated as a result of the merger; and • potential incompatibility of business cultures. If the combined company’s operations after the merger do not meet the expectations of existing customers of Authentidate and Parascript, then these customers may cease doing business with the combined company altogether, which would harm our results of operations and financial condition. If the management team is not able to develop strategies and implement a business plan that successfully addresses these difficulties, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the merger. Costs Associated with the Merger are Difficult to Estimate, May Be Higher than Expected and May Harm the Financial Results of the Combined Company. We will incur substantial direct transaction costs associated with the merger, and additional costs associated with consolidation and integration of operations. If the total costs of the merger exceed estimates, or the benefits of the merger do not exceed the total costs of the merger, our financial results could be adversely affected. The Merger May Result in Disruption of Authentidate’s and Parascript’s Existing Businesses, Distraction of Their Management and Diversion of Other Resources. The integration of Authentidate’s and Parascript’s businesses may divert management time and resources from the main businesses of both companies. This diversion of time and resources could cause the market price of New Authentidate’s common stock to decrease. The new management will need to spend some of their time integrating Parascript’s and Authentidate’s operations. This could cause New Authentidate’s business to suffer. Failure to complete the merger could negatively impact the stock price of Authentidate common stock and the future business and financial results of Authentidate because of, among other things, the market disruption that would occur as a result of uncertainties relating to a failure to complete the merger. Although Authentidate and Parascript have agreed to make an effort to obtain stockholder and unitholder approval, respectively, of the proposals relating to the merger, there is no assurance that these proposals will be approved, and there is no assurance that Authentidate and Parascript will receive the necessary regulatory approvals or satisfy the other conditions to the completion of the merger. If the merger is not completed for any reason, we will be subject to several risks, including: • Being required to pay the other company a termination fee, which each company is required to do in certain circumstances relating to the termination of the merger agreement. • Having had the focus of management of each of the companies directed toward the merger and integration planning instead of on each company’s core business and other opportunities that could have been beneficial to the companies. 17 Table of Contents In addition, we would not realize any of the expected benefits of having completed the merger. If the merger is not completed for any reason, the price of Authentidate common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price of Authentidate common stock reflects a market assumption that the merger will be completed and that the related benefits will be realized, or as a result of the market’s perceptions that the merger was not consummated due to an adverse change in Authentidate’s business. In addition, Authentidate’s business may be harmed, and the price of Authentidate’s stock may decline as a result, to the extent that customers, suppliers and others believe that we cannot compete in the marketplace as effectively without the merger or otherwise remain uncertain about our future prospects in the absence of the merger. Customers may delay, redirect or defer purchasing decisions, which could negatively affect the business and results of operations of Authentidate, regardless of whether the merger is ultimately completed. Similarly, current and prospective employees of Authentidate may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the resulting company and choose to pursue other opportunities that could adversely affect Authentidate if the merger is not completed. This may adversely affect the ability of Authentidate to attract and retain key management and marketing and technical personnel, which could harm the companies’ businesses and results. Some costs related to the merger, such as legal, accounting, filing, printing and mailing, must be paid and expensed if the merger is not completed. In addition, if the merger is not completed and our board of directors determines to seek another merger or business combination, there can be no assurance that we will be able to find a partner willing to agree to more attractive terms than those which have been negotiated for in the merger. The merger agreement limits Authentidate’s and Parascript’s ability to pursue an alternative proposal to the merger and requires Authentidate and Parascript to pay a termination fee of $3 million or $500,000, depending upon the circumstances surrounding termination. The merger agreement prohibits Authentidate and Parascript from soliciting, initiating, encouraging or entertaining certain inquiries or acquisition proposals with any third party, subject to exceptions set forth in the merger agreement. The merger agreement also provides for the payment by Authentidate and Parascript of a termination fee of $3 million or $500,000 if the merger agreement is terminated in certain circumstances. These provisions limit our ability to pursue offers from third parties that could result in greater value to each company. The payment of this termination fee could have an adverse effect on the financial condition of our company. The Former Principal Members, Officers and Directors of Parascript after the Merger Will Own a Substantial Interest in Authentidate’s Voting Stock and Initially Control the Board of Directors. Upon completion of the merger, Parascript’s former officers, directors and members who had greater than 5% of the voting power of Parascript’s common stock will, in the aggregate, beneficially own a substantial interest in Authentidate’s outstanding voting shares. In addition, former officers and members of Parascript will initially constitute a majority of the board of directors following the merger. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, will have the ability to substantially influence the outcome of matters submitted to Authentidate’s stockholders for approval, including: • election of the board of directors; • removal of any of the directors; • amendment of the articles of incorporation or by-laws; and • adoption of measures that could delay or prevent a change in control or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving Authentidate. These stockholders will have substantial influence over the management and affairs of New Authentidate. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business consolidation involving New Authentidate, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a 18 Table of Contents tender offer for its shares which would prevent Stockholders from realizing the benefits of the transaction, such as a purchase price premium or significant increase in stock price. The Market Price of Authentidate Common Stock May Decline as a Result of the Merger. The market price of New Authentidate common stock may decline as a result of the merger if the integration of the Parascript and Authentidate businesses is unsuccessful or if the costs of implementing the integration are greater than expected. The market price also may decline if New Authentidate does not achieve the perceived benefits of the merger as rapidly or to the extent anticipated by financial or industry analysts or if the effect of the merger on New Authentidate’s financial results is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts. In addition, our common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Capital Market and the trading volume of our common stock has fluctuated significantly. Because of this periodic limited trading volume, the former Parascript members may not be able to sell quickly any significant number of the Authentidate shares, and any attempted sale of a large number of Authentidate shares will likely have a material adverse impact on the price of the Authentidate common stock. Because of the limited number of shares being traded at times, the price per share is subject to volatility and may continue to be subject to rapid price swings in the future. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price is volatile and could decline. The price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. For example, our stock price during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 traded as low as $0.37 per share and as high as $1.60 per share. We cannot assure you that your initial investment in our common stock will not fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • quarterly variations in our operating results; • announcements we make regarding significant contracts, acquisitions, dispositions, strategic partnerships, or joint ventures; • additions or departures of key personnel; • the introduction of competitive offerings by existing or new competitors; • uncertainty about and customer confidence in the current economic conditions and outlook; • reduced demand for any given software or web-based service offering; and • sales of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general, and companies whose stock is listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Since we have not paid dividends on our common stock, you may not receive income from this investment. We have not paid any dividends on our common stock since our inception and do not contemplate or anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Earnings, if any, will be used to finance the development and expansion of our business. 19 Table of Contents The exercise of our outstanding options and warrants, or conversion of our outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock, may depress our stock price. As of June 30, 2008, the following options and warrants were outstanding: • Stock options to purchase approximately 4,217,101 shares of common stock at exercise prices ranging from $0.41 to $10.58 per share, not all of which are immediately exercisable. The weighted average exercise price of the outstanding stock options is $3.87 per share. These stock options are employee and non-executive director options. • Immediately exercisable warrants to purchase approximately 400,000 shares of common stock at exercise prices ranging from $0.39 to $20.00 per share. The weighted average exercise price of the outstanding warrants is $10.65. • Stock options to purchase 375,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $3.25 per share to an independent consultant which are exercisable upon achieving certain sales levels. In addition, there are currently outstanding 28,000 shares of our Series B Preferred Stock. The holder of the Series B Preferred Stock may convert these shares into shares of our common stock at a conversion price equal to $1.40 per share. Accordingly, the outstanding 28,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock are presently convertible into an aggregate of 500,000 shares of our common stock. To the extent that these securities are exercised or converted, dilution to our shareholders will occur. Moreover, the terms upon which we will be able to obtain additional equity capital may be adversely affected, since the holders of these securities can be expected to exercise or convert them at a time when we would, in all likelihood, be able to obtain any needed capital on terms more favorable to us than the exercise and conversion terms provided by those securities. Further, in the event the conversion price of the Series B Preferred Stock is lower than the actual trading price on the day of conversion, the holder could immediately sell all of its converted common shares, which would have a dilutive effect on the value of the outstanding common shares. Furthermore, the significant downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock as Series B Preferred Stock holders converted these securities and sell the common shares received on conversion could encourage short sales by the holders of Series B Preferred Stock or other shareholders. This would place further downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. Even the mere perception of eventual sales of common shares issued on the conversion of the Series B Preferred Stock could lead to a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Authentidate is currently not in compliance with The Nasdaq Capital Market $1.00 minimum bid price requirement and failure to regain and maintain compliance with this standard could result in delisting and adversely affect the market price and liquidity of our common stock. On June 12, 2008, Authentidate announced that effective June 13, 2008, the listing of the company’s common stock would be transferred from The NASDAQ Global Market to The NASDAQ Capital Market. As previously announced on December 18, 2007, Authentidate received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market advising that the company did not meet the minimum $1.00 per share bid price requirement for continued inclusion on The NASDAQ Global Market pursuant to NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5). The letter stated that the company had until June 16, 2008 to regain compliance and provided an option for Authentidate to transfer the listing of its common stock to The NASDAQ Capital Market. Upon such transfer, Authentidate would be afforded an additional 180 calendar days to comply with the minimum bid price requirement while listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market. Prior to June 11, 2008, Authentidate submitted a transfer application with NASDAQ to transfer listing of its common stock to The NASDAQ Capital Market. On June 11, 2008, NASDAQ approved the transfer application, and Authentidate will be afforded an additional compliance period of 180 calendar days, or until December 12, 2008, to comply with the minimum bid price requirement of The NASDAQ Capital Market. 20 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved staff comments. 