RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Operations Our performance is tied to Mexican public sector spending on infrastructure facilities. Our performance historically has been tied to Mexican public-sector spending on infrastructure facilities and to our ability to bid successfully for such contracts. Mexican public-sector spending, in turn, generally has been dependent on the state of the Mexican economy. A decrease in public-sector spending as a result of a deterioration of the Mexican economy, changes in Mexican governmental policy, or for other reasons can have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In the period leading up to and following the recent change in Mexico’s president and Congress, the number of large public sector construction contracts the Mexican government offered for public bidding decreased and some public sector projects were deferred. We cannot provide any assurances that political developments in Mexico, over which we have no control, will not negatively affect our operations. See “Risk Factors — Risks Related to Mexico and Other Markets in Which We Operate — Economic and political developments in Mexico could affect Mexican economic policy and our business, financial condition and results of operations.” Our results of operations and financial condition are dependent on the El Cajon hydroelectric project. In March 2003, the Mexican Federal Electricity Commission (Comision Federal de Electricidad, or CFE) awarded a U.S.$748 million (subsequently increased to U.S.$852 million as of December 31, 2006) contract for the engineering, procurement and construction of the El Cajon hydroelectric project to Constructora Internacional de Infraestructura, S.A. de C.V., or CIISA, a consortium in which two of our subsidiaries hold a combined 75% interest. The terms of the El Cajon contract required that we secure financing for the project costs and limit disbursements during the construction phase to 80% of the cash cost of any certified work performed. Because the terms of the construction contract provided that the CFE would pay for the project upon completion, and the financing obtained by CIISA covers only the project’s cash costs, the project did not generate any significant cash flow to us until February 27, 2007, when the CFE paid CIISA U.S.$525 million upon the delivery of the project’s first turbine unit. On June 1, 2007, CIISA delivered, and the CFE provisionally accepted, the project’s second turbine unit, the final acceptance of which, pursuant to the contract, requires CIISA to successfully conclude performance tests and deliver related documentation. We expect to complete the project in August 2007. There can be no assurance that we will receive part or all of the remaining U.S.$348 million owed to CIISA upon the project’s completion, or that we will recover any additional amounts that may be in dispute. We have recognized revenues from the El Cajon project based on the percentage of completion method of accounting, which relies on certain estimates and assumptions, and which as of March 31, 2007 permits us to recognize a value of U.S.$873 million. Since a substantial majority of the project’s revenues have been recognized and costs have been incurred as of March 2007, any decrease in the actual revenues collected or expected to be collected from the project would likely have a material impact on our cash flows and operating profit in 2007. Competition from foreign and domestic construction companies may adversely affect our results of operations. The market for construction services in Mexico is highly competitive. As a result of the integration of the Mexican economy into the global economy, we must compete with foreign construction companies for most of the industrial and infrastructure projects on which we bid in Mexico. We believe that competition from foreign companies has adversely affected the Mexican construction industry’s operating margins, including our own, as foreign competition has driven down pricing. Furthermore, many of our foreign competitors have better access to capital and greater financial and other resources, which affords them a competitive advantage in bidding for such projects. Foreign competition also allows sponsors such as governing agencies for infrastructure construction and industrial construction projects to require contractors to provide construction on a “turnkey” basis, which increases our financial risks. See “