Item 1A. Risk Factors In analyzing whether to make or to continue an investment in our securities, investors should consider, among other factors, the following risk factors. Risks Related to the U.S. Financial Industry Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. We are particularly exposed to downturns in the U.S. housing market. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, major commercial and investment banks, and regional financial institutions such as our Company. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, 26 Table of Contents increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressures on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets have adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • We potentially face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future behaviors. • The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our loan and investment portfolios requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers and trust preferred securities issuers to repay their debts. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. • Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. • We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. Risks Related to Our Business We experienced a net loss in fiscal 2009 directly attributable to a substantial deterioration in our residential construction and residential land loan portfolio and the resulting increase in our provision for loan losses and, an impairment charge representing a full write-down of our goodwill asset. We realized a net loss of $228.3 million in fiscal 2009. The net loss is the direct result of an impairment charge of $72.2 million representing a full write-down of our goodwill asset and a $205.7 million provision to our loan loss reserve. The loan loss reserve is the amount required to maintain the allowance for loan losses at an adequate level to absorb probable loan losses. The increase in the provision for loan losses is primarily attributable to our residential construction and residential land loan portfolios, which continue to experience deterioration in estimated collateral values and repayment abilities of some of our customers. Other reasons for the increase in the provision for loan losses are attributable to an overall increase in nonperforming assets and the continuing general weakening economic conditions and decline in real estate values in the markets served by the Corporation. The $72.2 million impairment charge was the result of the Corporation completing an impairment valuation test of its goodwill asset during the fiscal year due to the continued deterioration of market conditions as well as continued deterioration in our credit quality. At March 31, 2009, our non-performing loans (loans past due 90 days or more) were $146.2 million compared to $101.2 million at March 31, 2008 and our loans classified as substandard were $504.5 million compared to $143.9 million at March 31, 2008. For the year ended March 31, 2009, annualized net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans were 2.60% compared to 0.18% for the corresponding period in 2008. These increases are primarily due to our residential construction and residential land loan portfolio. At March 31, 2009, approximately 74% of total gross loans were classified as first mortgage loans, with approximately 7% of loans being classified as construction loans and approximately 6% being classified as land loans. The deterioration in our construction and land loan portfolios has been caused primarily by the weakening economy and the slow down in sales of the housing market. The local unemployment rate has risen to 9.4% as of March 31, 2009 compared to 5.6% at March 31, 2008. With many real estate projects requiring an extended time to market, some of our borrowers have exhausted their liquidity which may require us to place their loans into nonaccrual status. 27 Table of Contents Our results of operations are significantly dependent on economic conditions and related uncertainties. Commercial banking is affected, directly and indirectly, by domestic and international economic and political conditions and by governmental monetary and fiscal policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, volatile interest rates, real estate values, government monetary policy, international conflicts, the actions of terrorists and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in interest rates, in particular, could adversely affect our net interest income and have a number of other adverse effects on our operations, as discussed in the immediately succeeding risk factor. Adverse economic conditions also could result in an increase in loan delinquencies, foreclosures and nonperforming assets and a decrease in the value of the property or other collateral which secures our loans, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and related uncertainties in Wisconsin and contiguous counties in Iowa, Minnesota and Illinois because we derive substantially all of our loans, deposits and other business from this area. Accordingly, we remain subject to the risks associated with prolonged declines in national or local economies. Future dividend payments and common stock repurchases are restricted by the terms of the U.S. Treasury’s equity investment in us. Under the terms of the agreement we executed with Treasury pursuant to the Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”), for so long as any preferred stock issued under the CPP remains outstanding, we are prohibited from increasing dividends on our common stock, and from making certain repurchases of equity securities, including our common stock, without Treasury’s consent until the third anniversary of Treasury’s investment or until Treasury has transferred all of the preferred stock it purchased under the CPP to third parties. Furthermore, as long as the preferred stock issued to Treasury is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including our common stock, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. Future sales or other dilution of the Corporation’s equity may adversely affect the market price of the Corporation’s common stock. In connection with our participation in the CPP the Corporation has, or under other circumstances the Corporation may, issue additional common stock or preferred securities, including securities convertible or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. Further, pursuant to the cease and desist order with the OTS, the Bank must meet certain capital ratios which may require additional equity capital, which would significantly dilute the current shareholders. The market price of the Corporation’s common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of common stock, preferred stock or similar securities in the market. The issuance of additional common stock would dilute the ownership interest of the Corporation’s existing shareholders. On June 26, 2009, the Corporation and the Bank each consented to the issuance of an Order to Cease and Desist by the Office of Thrift Supervision. If we do not raise additional capital, we may not be in compliance with the capital requirements of the Bank’s Cease and Desist Order, which could have a material adverse effect upon us. The Cease and Desist Orders require that, no later than September 30, 2009, the Bank meet and maintain both a core capital ratio equal to or greater than 7 percent and a total risk-based capital ratio equal to or greater than 11 percent. Further, no later than December 31, 2009, the Bank must meet and maintain both a core capital ratio equal to or greater than 8 percent and a total risk-based capital ratio equal to or greater than 12 percent. To date, in the current economic environment, the Bank has not been able to raise sufficient additional capital to ensure compliance with the capital requirements of the Cease and Desist Order. Without a waiver by OTS or amendment or modification of the Cease and Desist Order, the Bank could be subject to further regulatory enforcement action, including, without limitation, the issuance of additional cease and desist orders (which may, among other things, further restrict the Bank ’s business activities, or place the Bank in conservatorship or receivership). If the Bank is placed in conservatorship or receivership, it is highly likely that such action would lead to a complete loss of all value of the Company’s ownership interest in the Bank. In addition, further restrictions could be placed on the Bank 28 Table of Contents if it were determined that the Bank was undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, or critically undercapitalized, with increasingly greater restrictions being imposed as any level of undercapitalization increased. See “Recent Developments” in Management Discussion and Analysis. Holders of our common stock have no preemptive rights and are subject to potential dilution. Our certificate of incorporation does not provide any shareholder with a preemptive right to subscribe for additional shares of common stock upon any increase thereof. Thus, upon the issuance of any additional shares of common stock or other voting securities of the Company or securities convertible into common stock or other voting securities, shareholders may be unable to maintain their pro rata voting or ownership interest in us. Although the Bank is considered “well capitalized” for regulatory purposes as of March 31, 2009, we will incur increased premiums for deposit insurance, require FDIC approval to gather brokered deposits, and will trigger acceleration of the maturity of certain of our brokered deposits if we fall below the “well capitalized” threshold. As of March 31, 2009, the Bank is considered “well capitalized” for regulatory capital purposes. If we fall below “well capitalized,” the FDIC will assess higher deposit insurance premiums on the Bank, which will impact our earnings. In addition, we will be required to obtain FDIC approval to gather brokered deposits during such times as we remain “adequately capitalized” for regulatory capital purposes. Requiring us to obtain regulatory approval prior to accepting brokered deposits will affect our ability to increase our liquidity position, in some cases, in a timely manner. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Our business is subject to liquidity risk, and changes in our source of funds may adversely affect our performance and financial condition by increasing our cost of funds. Our ability to make loans is directly related to our ability to secure funding. Retail deposits and core deposits are our primary source of liquidity. We also use brokered CDs, which are rate sensitive. We also rely on advances from the FHLB of Chicago as a funding source. We have also been granted access to the Fed fund line with a correspondent bank as well as the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago’s discount window, none of which had been borrowed as of March 31, 2009. In addition as of March 31, 2009, the Corporation had outstanding borrowings from the FHLB of $887.3 million, out of our maximum borrowing capacity of $983.9 million, from the FHLB at this time. Primary uses of funds include withdrawal of and interest payments on deposits, originations of loans and payment of operating expenses. Core deposits represent a significant source of low-cost funds. Alternative funding sources such as large balance time deposits or borrowings are a comparatively higher-cost source of funds. Liquidity risk arises from the inability to meet obligations when they come due or to manage unplanned decreases or changes in funding sources. Although we believe we can continue to pursue our core deposit funding strategy successfully, significant fluctuations in core deposit balances may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additional increases in our level of non-performing assets will have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Weakening conditions in the real estate sector have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our loan portfolio. Non-performing assets increased by $89.2 million to $198.7 million, or 3.8% of total assets, at March 31, 2009 from $109.5 million, or 2.1% of total assets, at March 31, 2008. Comparatively, non-performing assets increased by $55.0 million to $109.5 million, or 2.1% of total assets, at March 31, 2008, from $54.5 million, or 1.2% of total assets, at March 31, 2007. If loans that are currently non-performing further deteriorate we would need to increase our allowance to cover additional charge-offs. If loans that are currently performing become non-performing, we may need to continue to increase our allowance for loan losses if additional losses are anticipated, which would have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The increased time and expense associated with the work out of non-performing assets and potential non-performing assets also could adversely affect our operations. 29 Table of Contents Our allowance for losses on loans and leases may not be adequate to cover probable losses. Our level of non-performing loans increased significantly in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, relative to comparable periods for the preceding year. Our provision for loan losses increased by $183.1 million to $205.7 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009 from $22.6 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008. Our allowance for loan losses increased by $98.9 million to $137.2 million, or 3.3% of total loans, at March 31, 2009, from $38.3 million, or 0.9% of total loans, at March 31, 2008. Our allowance for loan losses also increased by $17.8 million to $38.3 million, or 0.9% of total loans, at March 31, 2008 from $20.5 million, or 0.5% of total loans at March 31, 2007. Our allowance for loan and foreclosure losses was 73.5% at March 31, 2009, 35.0% at March 31, 2008 and 37.7% at March 31, 2007, respectively, of non-performing assets. There can be no assurance that any future declines in real estate market conditions and values, general economic conditions or changes in regulatory policies will not require us to increase our allowance for loan and lease losses, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Our real estate operations have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We conduct real estate operations through Investment Directions, Inc, a wholly owned subsidiary, which invests in various real estate subsidiaries and partnerships and conducts real estate development and sales throughout California, Texas and Minnesota. As a result of weakening conditions in the real estate market and reduced sales of its properties, we have incurred losses from the operations of its real estate subsidiaries in recent years, which are expected to continue unless the real estate market improves. Losses from IDI’s real estate operations increased by $16.1 million to $18.4 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009 from $2.3 million for the fiscal year March 31, 2008 compared to losses of $1.7 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. The increased loss was the result of management applying a $17.6 million valuation allowance for the decline in the appraised value of real estate. We have no current plans to engage in additional real estate investment activities through IDI and are exploring opportunities to sell or otherwise divest IDI’s current investments as soon as practicable. Additional losses from our real estate operations would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and capital. There are increased risks involved with multi-family residential, commercial real estate, commercial business and consumer lending activities. Our lending activities include loans secured by existing multi-family residential and commercial real estate. In addition, we originate loans for the construction of multi-family residential real estate and land acquisition and development loans. Multi-family residential, commercial real estate and construction lending generally is considered to involve a higher degree of risk than single-family residential lending due to a variety of factors, including generally larger loan balances, the dependency on successful completion or operation of the project for repayment, the difficulties in estimating construction costs and loan terms which often do not require full amortization of the loan over its term and, instead, provide for a balloon payment at stated maturity. Our lending activities also include commercial business loans and leases to small to medium businesses, which generally are secured by various equipment, machinery and other corporate assets, and a wide variety of consumer loans, including home improvement loans, home equity loans, education loans and loans secured by automobiles, boats, mobile homes, recreational vehicles and other personal property. Although commercial business loans and leases and consumer loans generally have shorter terms and higher interests rates than mortgage loans, they generally involve more risk than mortgage loans because of the nature of, or in certain cases the absence of, the collateral which secures such loans. Future Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation assessments will hurt our earnings. In May 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation adopted a final rule imposing a special assessment on all insured institutions due to recent bank and savings association failures. The emergency assessment amounts to 5 basis points of total assets minus Tier 1 Capital as of June 30, 2009. The assessment will be collected on September 30, 2009 and recorded against earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2009. The special assessment will negatively impact the Company’s earnings and the Company expects that non-interest expenses will increase 30 Table of Contents approximately $2.5 million for the year ended March 31, 2010 as compared to the year ended March 31, 2009 as a result of this special assessment. In addition, the final rule allows the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to impose additional emergency special assessments of up to 5 basis points per quarter for the third and fourth quarters of 2009 if necessary to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance or as a result of deterioration in the deposit insurance fund reserve ratio due to institution failures. Any additional emergency special assessment imposed by the FDIC will further hurt the Company’s earnings. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year, reaching unprecedented levels. In many cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, our ability to access capital may be adversely affected, which in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The operations of financial institutions such as us are dependent to a large extent on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect our net interest income by affecting the difference between the weighted average yield earned on our interest-earning assets and the weighted average rate paid on our interest-bearing liabilities, or interest rate spread, and the average life of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in interest rates also can affect our ability to originate loans; the value of our interest-earning assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans; and the fair value of the derivatives carried on our balance sheet, derivative hedge effectiveness testing and the amount of ineffectiveness recognized in our earnings. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we believe that the estimated maturities of our interest-earning assets currently are well balanced in relation to the estimated maturities of our interest-bearing liabilities (which involves various estimates as to how changes in the general level of interest rates will impact these assets and liabilities), there can be no assurance that our profitability would not be adversely affected during any period of changes in interest rates. We are subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect our business and operations. We and the Bank are subject to extensive federal governmental supervision and regulation, which are intended primarily for the protection of depositors. In addition, we and our subsidiaries are subject to changes in laws, as well as changes in regulations, governmental policies and accounting principles. The effects of any such potential changes cannot be predicted but could adversely affect the business and operations of us and our subsidiaries in the future. We face strong competition which may adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to vigorous competition in all aspects and areas of our business from banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies, credit unions and other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies and insurance companies. We also compete with non-financial institutions, including retail stores that maintain their own credit programs and governmental agencies that make available low cost or guaranteed loans to certain borrowers. Certain of our competitors are larger financial institutions with substantially greater resources, lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of commercial banking services. Competition from both bank and non-bank organizations will continue. 31 Table of Contents Our ability to successfully compete may be reduced if we are unable to make technological advances. The banking industry is experiencing rapid changes in technology. In addition to improving customer services, effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. As a result, our future success will depend in part on our ability to address our customers’ needs by using technology. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively develop new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products to our customers. Many of our competitors have far greater resources than we have to invest in technology. Risks Related to Our Credit Agreement We are party to a credit agreement that requires us to observe certain covenants that limit our flexibility in operating our business. We are party to a Credit Agreement, dated as of June 9, 2008, by and among the Corporation, the financial institutions from time to time party to the agreement and U.S. Bank National Association, as administrative agent for the lenders, as amended by Amendment No. 4 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of May 29, 2009 (the “Credit Agreement”). The Credit Agreement requires us to comply with affirmative and negative covenants customary for restricted indebtedness. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; • pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; • make certain investments; • sell certain assets; and • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the Corporation’s assets. The Credit Agreement includes operating covenants covering, among other things, our capital ratios and non-performing asset levels. Additional operating covenants cover the Bank’s dividend payments and set minimum net income requirements. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the Credit Agreement. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, all amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement could become immediately due and payable. The lenders are under no obligation to make additional loans and amounts repaid by the Corporation may not be reborrowed. If we are unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If the lenders under the secured credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to make the payments when due. We must pay in full the outstanding balance under the Credit Agreement by the earlier of May 31, 2010 or the receipt of net proceeds of a financing transaction from the sale of equity securities. As of March 31, 2009, the total revolving loan commitment under the Credit Agreement was $116.3 million and aggregate borrowings under the Credit Agreement were $116.3 million. We must pay in full the outstanding balance under the Credit Agreement by the earlier of May 31, 2010 or the receipt of net proceeds of a financing transaction from the sale of equity securities. If the net proceeds are received from the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the terms of such investment prohibit the use of the investment proceeds to repay senior debt, then no payment is required from the Treasury investment. As of the date of this filing, we do not have sufficient cash on hand to reduce our outstanding borrowings to zero. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise sufficient capital or have sufficient cash on hand to reduce our outstanding borrowings to zero by May 31, 2010, which may limit our ability to fund ongoing operations. Unless the maturity date is extended, our outstanding borrowings under our Credit Agreement are due on May 31, 2010. The Credit Agreement does not include a commitment to refinance the remaining outstanding balance of the loans when they mature and there is no guarantee that our lenders will renew their loans at that time. Refusal to provide us with renewals or refinancing opportunities would cause our indebtedness to become 32 Table of Contents immediately due and payable upon the contractual maturity of such indebtedness, which could result in our insolvency if we are unable to repay the debt. If we fail to meet our payment obligations under the Credit Agreement, such failure will constitute an event of default. When an event of default occurs, the agent, on behalf of the lenders may, among other remedies, seize the outstanding shares of the Bank’s capital stock held by the Corporation or other securities or assets of the Corporation’s subsidiaries which have been pledged as collateral for borrowings under the Credit Agreement. If the Agent were to take one or more of these actions, it could have a material adverse affect on our reputation, operations and ability to continue as a going concern, and you could lose your investment in the securities. If we are unable to renew, replace or expand our sources of financing on acceptable terms, it may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to shareholders. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive, and any holders of preferred stock that is currently outstanding and that we may issue in the future may receive, a distribution of our available assets prior to holders of our common stock. The decisions by investors and lenders to enter into equity and financing transactions with us will depend upon a number of factors, including our historical and projected financial performance, compliance with the terms of our current credit arrangements, industry and market trends, the availability of capital and our investors’ and lenders’ policies and rates applicable thereto, and the relative attractiveness of alternative investment or lending opportunities. Risks Related to Recent Market, Legislative and Regulatory Events We cannot predict the impact on us or the Bank of recently enacted legislation, in particular the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and its implementing regulations, and actions by the FDIC. The programs established or to be established under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 may have adverse effects upon us, including increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Also, participation in specific programs may subject us to additional restrictions. For example, our participation in the CPP, among other things, limits (without the consent of the Department of Treasury) our ability to increase our dividend and to repurchase our common stock for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding. It also subjects us to additional executive compensation restrictions. Similarly, programs established by the FDIC under the systemic risk exception to the Federal Deposit Act, whether we participate or not, may have an adverse effect on us. For example, we estimate that participation in the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program likely will require the payment of an annual deposit premium of approximately $1.6 million to $2.3 million. In addition, we may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums even if we do not participate in the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The affects of participating or not participating in any such programs, and the extent of our participation in such programs cannot reliably be determined at this time. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 