Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Current economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. The global economy is currently undergoing a period of unprecedented volatility and the future economic environment may continue to be less favorable than that of recent years. It is uncertain how long the recession that the U.S. economy has entered will last. The recession has resulted in, and could lead to, further reduced spending specifically related to physicians’ equipment and software. Our products require a large initial outlay of funds, which physicians in the current economic climate are hesitant to do. Also, the credit markets are currently experiencing unprecedented contraction. If current pressures on credit continue or worsen, future debt financing may not be available to us when required or may not be available on acceptable terms, and as a result we may be unable to grow our business, take advantage of business opportunities, respond to competitive pressures or satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, we will be required to eliminate certain operations that may adversely affect our business. Our operations require substantial funds for, among other things, continuing research and development and manufacturing and marketing our existing products. We may need to seek additional capital, possibly through public or private sales of our securities, in order to fund our operations. However, we may not be able to obtain additional funding in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms when needed. Insufficient funds may require us to delay, scale back or eliminate certain or all of our research and development programs or license from third parties products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to develop ourselves. Any of these may adversely affect our continued operations. If we fail to develop and successfully introduce new and enhanced products that address rapid technological changes in our markets and meet the needs of our customers, our business may be harmed. Our industry is characterized by extensive research and development, rapid technological change, frequent innovations and new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. Demand for our products could be significantly diminished by new technologies or products that replace them or render them obsolete, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Our future success depends on our ability to anticipate our customers’ needs and develop products that address those needs. This will require us to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. We have incurred substantial research and development expenditures in the past and plan to continue to do so in the future. Over the last three fiscal years, our research and development expenses have been in the range of 10% to 18% of our net revenues. Although we have spent considerable resources on research and development, we may still be unable to introduce new products or, if we do introduce a new product, such product or products may not achieve sufficient market acceptance. Failure to successfully identify new product opportunities and develop and bring new products to market in a timely and cost effective manner may lead to a reduction in sales and adversely affect our business. The markets in which we sell our products are intensely competitive and increased competition could cause reduced sales levels, reduced gross margins or loss of market share. Competition for products that diagnose and evaluate eye disease is intense and is expected to increase. Although we continue to work on developing new and improved products, many companies are engaged in research and development of new devices and alternative methods to diagnose and evaluate eye disease. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and technical resources than us. Any business combinations or mergers among our competitors, forming larger competitors with greater resources, or the acquisition of a competitor by a major medical or technology corporation seeking to enter this business, could result in increased competition. Introduction of new devices and alternative methods could hinder our ability to compete effectively and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience a decline in the selling prices of our products as competition increases, which could adversely affect our operating results. As competing products become more widely available, the average selling price of our products may decrease. Trends toward managed care, health care, cost containment and other changes in government and private sector initiatives in the United States and other countries in which we do business are placing increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical therapies which could adversely affect prices of our products. If we are unable to offset the anticipated decrease in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes, our net sales will decline. To compete we must continue to reduce the cost of our products. Further, as average selling prices of our current products decline, we must develop and introduce new products and product enhancements with higher margins. If we cannot maintain our net sales and gross margins, our operating results could be seriously harmed, particularly if the average selling prices of our products decreases significantly. Our products are subject to U.S., E.U. and international medical regulations and controls, which impose substantial financial costs on us and which can prevent or delay the introduction of new products. Our ability to sell our products is subject to various federal, state and international rules and regulations. In the United States, we are subject to inspection and market surveillance by the FDA, to determine compliance with regulatory requirements. The regulatory process is costly, lengthy and uncertain. Any delays in obtaining or failure to obtain regulatory approval of any of our products could cause a loss of sales or incurrence of additional expenses, which could adversely affect our business. 12 The purchase of AcerMed software and the formation of Abraxas may not generate any significant future revenue for us. In January 2008, we purchased substantially all of the assets of AcerMed, Inc., a leading software developer for Electronic Medical Records (EMR) and Practice Management software. Through the acquisition, we gained the rights to software applications that automate the clinical, administrative, and the financial operations of a medical office. Due to the acquisition of Abraxas, NextGen Healthcare Information Systems, Inc., a supplier of EMR and PM software, chose recently to discontinue its relationship with OIS. Long sales cycles, new sales training requirements and potential resistance to the initial high cost of the software may be among the factors contributing to us not being successful in selling these products. We depend on skilled personnel to effectively operate our business in a rapidly changing market, and if we are unable to retain existing or hire additional personnel, our ability to develop and sell our products could be harmed. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our key senior management, sales and technical personnel, any of whom could be difficult to replace. Competition for qualified employees is intense, and our business could be adversely affected by the loss of the services of any of our existing key personnel. We cannot assure that we will continue to be successful in hiring and retaining properly trained personnel. Our inability to attract, retain, motivate and train qualified new personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to protect our proprietary technology, which could adversely affect our competitive advantage. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements and other restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot assure that our patent applications will be approved, any patents that may be issued will protect our intellectual property, any issued patents will not be challenged by third parties or any patents held by us will not be found by a judicial authority to be invalid or unenforceable. Other parties may independently develop similar or competing technology or design around any patents that may be issued to or held by us. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Moreover, if we lose any key personnel, we may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by those former employees. The long sales cycles for our products may cause us to incur significant expenses without offsetting revenues. Customers typically expend significant effort in evaluating, testing and qualifying our products before making a decision to purchase them, resulting in a lengthy initial sales cycle. While our customers are evaluating our products we may incur substantial sales, marketing and research and development expenses to customize our products to the customer’s needs. We may also expend significant management efforts, increase manufacturing capacity and order long-lead-time components or materials. Even after this evaluation process, a potential customer may not purchase our products. As a result, these long sales cycles may cause us to incur significant expenses without ever receiving revenue to offset those expenses. 13 If we fail to accurately forecast components and materials requirements for our products, we could incur additional costs and significant delays in shipments, which could result in the loss of customers. We must accurately predict both the demand for our products and the lead times required to obtain the necessary components and materials. Lead times for components and materials that we order vary significantly and depend on factors including the specific supplier requirements, the size of the order, contract terms and current market demand for components. If we overestimate our component and material requirements, we may have excess inventory, which would increase our costs, impair our available liquidity and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we underestimate our component and material requirements, we may have inadequate inventory, which could interrupt and delay delivery of our products to our customers. Any of these occurrences would negatively impact our net sales, business and operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our dependence on sole source suppliers exposes us to possible supply interruptions that could delay or prevent the manufacture of our systems. Certain of the components used in our products are purchased from single sources. While we believe that most of these components are available from alternate sources, an interruption of these or other supplies could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture some of our systems. Some of our medical customers’ willingness to purchase our products depends on their ability to obtain reimbursement for medical procedures using our products and our revenues could suffer from changes in third-party coverage and reimbursement policies. Our medical segment customers include doctors, clinics, hospitals and other health care providers whose willingness and ability to purchase our products depends in part upon their ability to obtain reimbursement for medical procedures using our products from third-party payers, including private insurance companies, and in the U.S. from health maintenance organizations, and federal, state and local government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Third-party payers are increasingly scrutinizing health care costs submitted for reimbursement and may deny coverage and reimbursement for the medical procedures made possible by our products. Failure by our customers to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payers for medical procedures that use our products or changes in third-party coverage and reimbursement policies could have a material adverse effect on our sales, results of operations and financial condition. We have limited product liability insurance and if we are held liable in a products liability lawsuit for amounts in excess of our insurance coverage, we could be rendered insolvent. There can be no assurance that we will not be named as a defendant in any litigation arising from the use of our products. Although we have our own product liability insurance policy with a limit of $4 million, should such litigation ensue and we are held liable for amounts in excess of such insurance coverage, we could be rendered insolvent. In addition, there can be no assurance that product liability insurance will continue to be available to us or that the premiums therefore will not become prohibitively expensive. 14 If our facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, our operations would be seriously harmed. Our facilities could be subject to a catastrophic loss such as fire, flood or earthquake. A substantial portion of our manufacturing activities and many other critical business operations are located near major earthquake faults in California, an area with a history of seismic events. Our corporate headquarters is also in a possible flood zone. Any such losses at our facilities could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. Any such loss could have a material adverse effect on our sales, results of operations and financial condition. If MediVision fails to repay amounts guaranteed by us under the Debenture, it could result in a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. We are a party to a Debenture whereby we guarantee the payment of all of the debts and liabilities of MediVision to United Mizrahi Bank, up to $2,000,000. The Debenture is secured by a first lien on all of our assets. The amount owed to the financial institutions by MediVision and secured by us as of December 31, 2008 was approximately $1,700,000. If MediVision fails to pay the debts and liabilities secured by us under the Debenture we will be obligated to pay these amounts to United Mizrahi Bank. The cash required to pay such amounts will most likely come out of our working capital. Since we rely on our working capital for our day-to-day operations, any such default by MediVision could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition to such extent that we are forced to restructure, file for bankruptcy, sell assets or cease operations, any of which could put your investment at significant risk. (For a more detailed description of the Debenture, see Item 8. Financial Statements, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6. Related Party Transactions, MediVision.) Risks Related to Our Common Stock We may experience volatility in our stock price, which could negatively affect your investment, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the offering price. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: quarterly variations in operating results; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; changes in market valuations of other similar companies; announcements by us or our competitors of new products or of significant technical innovations, contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; additions or departures of key personnel; any deviations in net sales or in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; and future sales of common stock. In addition, the stock market has recently experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall regardless of our financial performance. Because our securities trade on the OTC Bulletin Board, your ability to sell your shares in the secondary market may be limited. The shares of our common stock have been listed and principally quoted on the Nasdaq OTC Bulletin Board under the trading symbol “OISI” since May 28, 1998. As a result, it may be more difficult for an investor to dispose of OIS’ securities or to obtain accurate quotations on their market value. Furthermore, the prices for OIS’ securities may be lower than might otherwise be obtained. 15 Moreover, because OIS’ securities currently trade on the OTC Bulletin Board, they are subject to the rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell securities governed by these rules to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors” (generally, individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual individual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouses). For such transactions, the broker-dealer must determine whether persons that are not established customers or accredited investors qualify under the rule for purchasing such securities and must receive that person’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. Consequently, these rules may adversely affect the ability of purchasers to sell OIS’ securities and otherwise affect the trading market in OIS’ securities. Because OIS’ shares are deemed “penny stocks,” you may have difficulty selling them in the secondary trading market. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted regulations which generally define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price (as therein defined) less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Additionally, if the equity security is not registered or authorized on a national securities exchange that makes certain reports available, the equity security may also constitute a “penny stock.” As OIS’ common stock falls within the definition of penny stock, these regulations require the delivery by the broker-dealer, prior to any transaction involving OIS’ common stock, of a risk disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with it. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and any salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements indicating the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. In addition, the penny stock rules require that, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the trading activity in the secondary market for OIS’ common stock. The ability of broker-dealers to sell OIS’ common stock and the ability of shareholders to sell OIS’ common stock in the secondary market would be limited. As a result, the market liquidity for OIS’ common stock would be severely and adversely affected. OIS can provide no assurance that trading in OIS’ common stock will not be subject to these or other regulations in the future, which would negatively affect the market for OIS’ common stock. OIS has additional securities available for issuance, including preferred stock, which if issued could adversely affect the rights of the holders of OIS’ common stock. OIS’ articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of 35,000,000 shares of common stock and 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The common stock and the preferred stock can generally be issued as determined by OIS’ board of directors without shareholder approval. Any issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the rights of the holders of common stock by, among other things, establishing preferential dividends, liquidation rights or voting powers. Accordingly, shareholders will be dependent upon the judgment of OIS’ management in connection with the future issuance and sale of shares of OIS’ common stock and preferred stock, in the event that buyers can be found therefor. Any future issuances of common stock or preferred stock would further dilute the percentage ownership of OIS held by the public shareholders. Furthermore, the issuance of preferred stock could be used to discourage or prevent efforts to acquire control of OIS through acquisition of shares of common stock. 16 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 