Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this Annual Report. There is a great deal of risk involved. Any of the following risks could affect our business, its financial condition, its potential profits or losses, and could result in you losing your entire investment if our business became insolvent. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, including those not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, also may result in decreased revenues, increased expenses or other events which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We may decide to acquire assets or enter into business combinations, which could be paid for, either wholly or partially with our common stock and if we decide to do this our current shareholders would experience dilution in their percentage of ownership. Our Articles of Incorporation give our Board of Directors the right to enter into any contract without the approval of our shareholders. Therefore, our management could decide to make an investment (buy shares, loan money, etc.) without shareholder approval. If we acquire an asset or enter into a business combination, this could include exchanging a large amount of our common stock, which could dilute the ownership interest of present stockholders. Future stock distributions could be structured in such a way as to be 1) diluting to our current shareholders or 2) could cause a change in control to new investors. If we raise additional funds by selling more of our stock, the new stock may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the rights of our existing stock. If common stock is issued in return for additional funds, the price per share could be lower than that paid by our current stockholders. The result of this would be a lessening of each present stockholder’s relative percentage interest in our company. Our shareholders could experience significant dilution if we issue our authorized 10,000,000 preferred shares. We recently registered 500,000 common shares with the Securities and Exchange Commission which became effective September 28, 2006; this could result in a substantial proportion of the voting power being transferred to new investor(s). The result would be that the new shareholder(s) could control our company and persons unknown could replace current management. We have not established a minimum amount of proceeds that we must receive in the offering before any proceeds may be accepted. Once accepted, the funds will be deposited into an account maintained by us and considered our general assets. None of the proceeds will be placed in any escrow, trust or other arrangement; therefore, there are no investor protections for the return of subscription funds once accepted. The Company’s common shares currently trade within the NASDAQ Capital Market in the United States and on the Toronto Stock Exchange in Canada. The average daily trading volume of our common stock is 27,600 shares in the United States and significantly less in Canada. With this limited trading volume, investors could find it difficult to purchase or sell our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business We could experience a decrease in the demand for our products resulting in lower sales volumes, which would give us less capital with which to operate. In the past we have experienced decreasing annual sales in the areas of home-improvement products (sold through JCLC) and industrial tools. The reasons for this can be generally attributed to: increased competition; worldwide economic conditions, specifically those pertaining to lumber prices; demand for industrial tools; and consumer interest rates. If economic conditions deteriorate or if consumer preferences change, we could experience a significant decrease in profitability. Production time and the overall cost of our products could increase resulting in lower profit margins for our products if any of our primary suppliers are lost or if any of them increased their prices of raw materials. Our manufacturing operation, which includes cutting lumber to specific sizes and shapes, depends upon obtaining adequate supplies of lumber on a timely basis. If these supplies of lumber were not received on a timely basis, we could experience lower profit margins and possibly lose sales of these products. If our top customers were lost and could not be replaced. Our top ten customers represent 36% of our business. We would experience a significant decrease in sales and would have to cut back our operations. Our top ten customers are in the U.S. and are primarily in the marine and retail building industries. We could experience delays in the delivery of our products to our customers causing us to lose business. We purchase our products from other vendors and a delay in shipment from these vendors to us could cause significant delays in our delivery to our customers. This could result in a decrease in sales orders to us and we would experience a loss in profitability. We could lose our credit agreement and could result in our not being able to pay our creditors. We have a line of credit with U.S. Bank in the amount of $5 million. We are currently in compliance with the requirements of our existing line of credit. If we lost this credit it could become impossible to pay some of our creditors on a timely basis. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to detect fraud or report our financial results accurately, which could harm our business and we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”), we will be required, beginning in fiscal year 2007, to perform an evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting and have our independent registered public accounting firm test and evaluate the design and operating effectiveness of such internal controls and publicly attest to such evaluation. We have not yet prepared any internal plan of action for compliance with the requirements of Section 404 or any effectiveness evaluation. Although we believe our internal controls are operating effectively, we cannot guarantee that we will not have any material weaknesses as reported by our independent registered public accounting firm. Compliance with the requirements of Section 404 is expected to be expensive and time-consuming. If we fail to complete this evaluation in a timely manner, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot timely attest to our evaluation, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. 