ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this Annual Report. There is a great deal of risk involved. Any of the following risks could affect our business, its financial condition, its potential profits or losses, and could result in you losing your entire investment if our business became insolvent. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, including those not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, also may result in decreased revenues, increased expenses or other events which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We may decide to acquire assets or enter into business combinations, which could be paid for, either wholly or partially with our common stock and if we decide to do this our current shareholders would experience dilution in their percentage of ownership. Our Articles of Incorporation give our Board of Directors the right to enter into any contract without the approval of our shareholders. Therefore, our management could decide to make an investment (buy shares, loan money, etc.) without shareholder approval. If we acquire an asset or enter into a business combination, this could include exchanging a large amount of our common stock, which could dilute the ownership interest of present stockholders. Future stock distributions could be structured in such a way as to be 1) diluting to our current shareholders or 2) could cause a change in control to new investors. If we raise additional funds by selling more of our stock, the new stock may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the rights of our existing stock. If common stock is issued in return for additional funds, the price per share could be lower than that paid by our current stockholders. The result of this would be a lessening of each present stockholder’s relative percentage interest in our company. - 7 - The Company’s common shares currently trade within the NASDAQ Capital Market in the United States. The common shares also formerly traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange in Canada until the Company voluntarily delisted from the Toronto Stock Exchange on October 11, 2012. The average daily trading volume of our common stock was approximately 14,159 shares on NASDAQ for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2013. With this limited trading volume, investors could find it difficult to purchase or sell our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business We could experience a decrease in the demand for our products resulting in lower sales volumes. In the past we have at times experienced decreasing products sales with certain customers. The reasons for this can be generally attributed to: increased competition; general economic conditions; demand for products; and consumer interest rates. If economic conditions deteriorate or if consumer preferences change, we could experience a significant decrease in profitability. If our top customers were lost, we could experience lower sales volumes. For the fiscal year ended August 31, 2013 our top ten customers represented 66% of our total sales, and our single largest customer was responsible for 23% of our total sales. We would experience a significant decrease in sales and profitability and would have to cut back our operations, if these customers were lost and could not be replaced. Our top ten customers are in located in North America, and are primarily in the retail home improvement industries. We could experience delays in the delivery of our products to our customers causing us to lose business. We purchase our products from other vendors and a delay in shipment from these vendors to us could cause significant delays in our delivery to our customers. This could result in a decrease in sales orders to us and we would experience a loss in profitability. We could lose our credit agreement and could result in our not being able to pay our creditors. We have a line of credit with U.S. Bank in the amount of $5 million, of which $5 million is available. We are currently in compliance with the requirements of our existing line of credit. If we lost this credit it could become impossible to pay some of our creditors on a timely basis. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to detect fraud or report our financial results accurately, which could harm our business and we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny. We have completed a management assessment of internal controls as prescribed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which we were required to do in connection with our year ended August 31, 2013. Based on this process we did not identify any material weaknesses. Although we believe our internal controls are operating effectively, we cannot guarantee that in the future we will not identify any material weaknesses in connection with this ongoing process. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS --- No Disclosure Necessary --- 