Risk Factors Investors should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this Annual Report. There is a great deal of risk involved. Any of the following risks could affect our business, its financial condition, its potential profits or losses, and could result in you losing your entire investment if our business became insolvent. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, including those not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, also may result in decreased revenues, increased expenses or other events which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. a. We may decide to acquire assets or enter into business combinations, which could be paid for, either wholly or partially with our common stock and if we decide to do this our current shareholders would experience dilution in their percentage of ownership. b. Our bylaws give our Board of Directors the right to enter into any contract without the approval of our shareholders. Therefore, our Executive Officers could decide to make an investment (buy shares, loan money, etc.) without shareholder approval. If we acquire an asset or enter into a business combination, this could include exchanging a large amount of our common stock, which could dilute the ownership interest of present stockholders. c. Future stock distributions could be structured in such a way as to be diluting to our current shareholders. d. If we raise additional funds by selling more of our stock, the new stock may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the rights of our existing stock. If common stock is issued in return for additional funds, the price per share could be lower than that paid by our current stockholders. The result of this would be a lessening of each present stockholder’s relative percentage interest in our company. This condition is often referred to as “dilution”. e. We could experience a decrease in the demand for our products resulting in lower sales volumes, which would give us less capital with which to operate. f. In the past we have experienced decreasing annual sales in the areas of home-improvement products (sold through JCLC) and industrial tools. The reasons for this can be generally attributed to: increased competition; worldwide economic conditions, specifically those pertaining to lumber prices; demand for industrial tools; and consumer interest rates. If economic conditions continue to worsen or if consumer preferences change, we could experience a significant decrease in profitability. g. Production time and the overall cost of our products could increase resulting in lower profit margins for our products if any of our primary suppliers are lost or if any of them increased their prices of raw materials. h. Our manufacturing operation, which includes cutting lumber to specific sizes and shapes, depends upon obtaining adequate supplies of lumber on a timely basis. If these supplies of lumber were not received on a timely basis, we could experience lower profit margins and possibly lose sales of these products. i. Our shareholders could experience significant dilution if we issue our authorized preferred shares. j. Future stock distributions could cause a change of control to new investor(s). k. We are currently working on a large common share offering; this could result in a substantial proportion of the voting power being transferred to new investor(s). The result would be that the new shareholder(s) could control our company and persons unknown could replace current management. l. Our top ten customers represent 39% of our business. If these customers were lost and could not be replaced, we would experience a significant decrease in sales and would have to cut back our operations. m. We could experience delays in the delivery of our products to our customers causing us to lose business. n. We purchase our products from other vendors and a delay in shipment from these vendors to us could cause significant delays in our delivery to our customers. This could result in a decrease in sales orders to us and we would experience a loss in profitability. o. We could lose our bank credit agreement and this could result in our not being able to pay our creditors. We have a line of credit with U.S. Bank in the amount of $8 million. We are currently in compliance with the requirements of our existing line of credit. If we lost this credit it could become impossible to pay some of our creditors on a timely basis. p. The Company’s common shares currently trade within the Nasdaq Small Cap Stock Exchange in the United States and on the Toronto Stock Exchange in Canada. The average daily trading volume of our common stock is 15,500 shares in the United States and significantly less in Canada. With this limited trading volume, investors could find it difficult to purchase or sell our common stock. q. We are a Canadian company. Some of our directors live outside the United States, and all or a substantial portion of their assets and our assets are, or may be located outside the United States. Therefore, it will be difficult for you to serve us or our directors with a lawsuit in the United States. You probably cannot recover any money if you get a judgment, including judgments based on violations of U.S. federal securities laws. Further, you cannot sue us or our non-U.S. Directors in Canada for violation of U.S. federal securities laws since those laws do not have force of law in Canada. # 