Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of, and market for, shares of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks. This report, including the documents incorporated by reference herein, also contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks described below and in the documents incorporated by reference herein. Risks Related to Our Industry Our business may be adversely affected by current conditions in the financial markets, the real estate market and economic conditions generally. Beginning in the latter half of 2007 and continuing into 2012, negative developments in the capital markets resulted in uncertainty and instability in the financial markets, and an economic downturn. The housing market declined, resulting in decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures. The credit performance of residential and commercial real estate, construction and land loans resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. The declines in the performance and value of mortgage assets encompassed all mortgage and real estate asset types, leveraged bank loans and nearly all other asset classes, including equity securities. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital or to merge with larger and stronger institutions. Some financial institutions have failed. Continued, and potentially increased, volatility, instability and weakness could affect our ability to sell investment securities and other financial assets, which in turn could adversely affect our liquidity and financial position. This instability also could affect the prices at which we could make any such sales, which could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by some financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This tightening of credit has led to increased loan delinquencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and a widespread reduction in general business activity. Competition among depository institutions for deposits has increased significantly, and access to deposits or borrowed funds has decreased for many institutions. It has also become more difficult to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in our loan portfolio. 24 Table of Contents Current conditions, including high unemployment, weak corporate performance, soft real estate markets, and the decline of home sales and property values, could negatively affect the volume of loan originations and prepayments, the value of the real estate securing our mortgage loans, and borrowers’ ability to repay loan obligations, all of which could adversely impact our earnings and financial condition. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is greatly reduced, and local governments and many companies are in serious difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. A worsening of current conditions would likely adversely affect our business and results of operations, as well as those of our customers. As a result, we may experience increased foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies, as well as more restricted access to funds. The soundness of other financial institutions could negatively affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Regulation by federal and state agencies could adversely affect our business, revenue, and profit margins. We are heavily regulated by federal and state agencies. This regulation is to protect depositors, the federal deposit insurance fund and the banking system as a whole. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us adversely, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products. Also, if we do not comply with laws, regulations, or policies, we could receive regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. Competition in the financial services industry is intense and could result in losing business or reducing margins. We operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes, and continued consolidation. We face aggressive competition from other domestic and foreign lending institutions and from numerous other providers of financial services. The ability of non-banking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. Because non-banking financial institutions are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. Securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may acquire banks and other financial institutions. This may significantly change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources and/or face fewer regulatory constraints. As a result of these various sources of competition, we could lose business to competitors or be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, either of which would adversely affect our profitability. We continually encounter technological change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. 25 Table of Contents Many competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Business We experienced a net loss in fiscal 2012 directly attributable to a substantial deterioration in our land and construction loan portfolio and the resulting provision for credit losses. We realized a net loss of $36.7 million in fiscal 2012. The net loss is primarily the result of a $33.6 million provision to our credit loss reserve. The credit loss reserve is the amount required to maintain the allowance for loan losses at an adequate level to absorb probable loan losses. The provision for credit losses is primarily attributable to our residential construction and residential land loan portfolios, which continue to experience deterioration in estimated collateral values and repayment abilities of some of our customers. Other reasons for the level of the provision for credit losses are attributable to the continued weak economic conditions and decline in real estate values in the markets served by the Corporation. At March 31, 2012, our non-performing loans (consisting of loans past due more than 90 days, loans less than 90 days delinquent but placed on non-accrual status due to anticipated probable loss and non-accrual troubled debt restructurings) were $224.9 million compared to $282.6 million at March 31, 2011. For the year ended March 31, 2012, net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans were 3.14% compared to 2.76% for the corresponding period in 2011. Despite the improvement in the State of Wisconsin unemployment rate from 8.3% at March 31, 2011 to 7.5% at March 31, 2012, the economy remains fragile. The deterioration in our land and construction loan portfolios has been caused primarily by the weakening economy and the slowdown in sales of the housing market. With many real estate projects requiring an extended time to market, some of our borrowers have exhausted their liquidity which may require us to place their loans into non-accrual status. We have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Continued operations depend on our ability to meet our existing debt obligations and the financing or other capital required to do so may not be available or may not be available on reasonable terms. The Bank has low levels of capital, significant operating losses and significant deterioration in the quality of its assets. Further, we have become subject to enhanced regulatory scrutiny. The potential lack of sources of liquidity raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern for the foreseeable future. Our Consolidated Financial Statements were prepared under the assumption that we will continue our operations on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the discharge of liabilities in the normal course of business. Our Consolidated Financial Statements do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if we are unable to continue as a going concern. If we cannot continue as a going concern, our shareholders will lose some or all of their investment. We are actively pursuing a broad range of strategic alternatives in order to address any doubt related to the Corporation’s ability to continue as a going concern. There can be no assurance that the pursuit of strategic alternatives will result in any transaction, or that any such transaction, if consummated, will allow the Corporation’s shareholders to avoid a loss of all or substantially all of their investment in the Corporation. In addition, a transaction, which would likely involve equity financing, would result in substantial dilution to our current shareholders and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The pursuit of strategic alternatives may also involve significant expenses and management time and attention. 26 Table of Contents We have reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in past fiscal years and if additional material weaknesses are discovered in the future, our stock price and investor confidence in us may be adversely affected. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected. In connection with management’s assessments of our internal control over financial reporting over the prior two fiscal years and interim quarterly periods in the current fiscal year, we identified material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. As disclosed in Item 9A control deficiency, we believe we have taken the steps necessary to remediate certain material weaknesses identified during these periods. The controls implemented to remediate these material weaknesses were determined to be operating effectively as of March 31, 2012. We may, in the future, identify additional internal control deficiencies that could rise to the level of a material weakness or uncover errors in financial reporting. Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting may cause investors to lose confidence in us, which could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. The Bank may be subject to a federal conservatorship or receivership if it cannot comply with the Cease and Desist Order, the Capital Restoration Plan, or if its condition continues to deteriorate. In June 2009, the Bank voluntarily entered into a Cease and Desist Order with the OTS (now administered by the OCC) which required, among other things, capital requirements in excess of the generally applicable minimum requirements. The Bank was also required to create and implement a Capital Restoration Plan. The condition of the Bank’s loan portfolio may continue to deteriorate in the current economic environment and thus continue to deplete the Bank’s capital and other financial resources. Therefore, should the Bank fail to comply with the Cease and Desist Order, fail to fulfill the terms of its Capital Restoration Plan, fail to comply with capital and liquidity funding requirements, or suffer a continued deterioration in its financial condition, the Bank may be subject to being placed into a federal conservatorship or receivership by the OCC, with the FDIC appointed as conservator or receiver. If these events occur, the Corporation probably would suffer a complete loss of the value of its ownership interest in the Bank, and the Corporation subsequently may be exposed to significant claims by the FDIC and the OCC. Our business is subject to liquidity risk, and changes in our source of funds may adversely affect our performance and financial condition by increasing our cost of funds. Our ability to make loans is directly related to our ability to secure funding. Retail deposits and core deposits are our primary source of liquidity. We also rely on advances from the FHLB of Chicago as a funding source. We have also been granted access to Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago’s discount window, but as of March 31, 2012 we had no borrowings outstanding from this source. In addition, as of March 31, 2012, the Corporation had outstanding borrowings from the FHLB of $357.5 million, out of our maximum borrowing capacity from the FHLB at this time, based on collateral currently pledged, of $514.2 million. Primary uses of funds include withdrawal of and interest payments on deposits, originations of loans and payment of operating expenses. Core deposits represent a significant source of low-cost funds. Alternative funding sources such as large balance time deposits or borrowings are a comparatively higher-cost source of funds. Liquidity risk arises from the inability to meet obligations when they come due or to manage unplanned decreases or changes in funding sources. Although we believe we can continue to pursue our core deposit funding strategy successfully, significant fluctuations in core deposit balances may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Concern of our customers over deposit insurance may cause a decrease in deposits. With recent increased concerns about bank failures, customers increasingly are concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits in an effort to ensure that the 27 Table of Contents amount they have on deposit with their bank is fully insured. The Dodd-Frank Provision, which became effective on December 31, 2010, provides unlimited FDIC insurance coverage for all noninterest-bearing transaction accounts, as well as IOLTA accounts. This full deposit insurance coverage is in effect until December 31, 2012. We have elected to participate in the program. If this program is not extended beyond December 31, 2012, we may experience a decrease in deposits. Decreases in deposits may adversely affect our funding costs, net income, and liquidity. Our liquidity is largely dependent upon our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiary bank, which accounts for most of our revenue and could affect our ability to pay dividends, and we may be unable to enhance liquidity from other sources. We are a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries, including the Bank. We receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from the Bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank and certain of our non-bank subsidiaries may pay us. Additionally, if our subsidiaries’ earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, our ability to make dividend payments to our preferred and common shareholders will be negatively impacted. The Bank is currently precluded from paying dividends to the Corporation. Additional increases in our level of non-performing assets would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Weakening conditions in the real estate sector have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our loan portfolio. Non-performing assets decreased by $59.6 million to $313.8 million, or 11.25% of total assets, at March 31, 2012 from $373.4 million, or 11.0% of total assets, at March 31, 2011. If loans that are currently non-performing further deteriorate, we may need to increase our allowance to cover additional charge-offs. If loans that are currently performing become non-performing, we may need to continue to increase our allowance for loan losses if additional losses are anticipated which would have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The increased time and expense associated with the work out of non-performing assets and potential non-performing assets also could adversely affect our operations. Future equity financing will adversely affect the market price of the Corporation’s common stock and dilute the Corporation’s equity. We have been seeking additional equity financing to provide additional capital for the Corporation. Based on discussions with possible equity participants to date, we believe that any such financing is likely to be at a per share price significantly below the current market price, and as a result, the market price of the Corporation’s common stock would decline significantly. In addition, we believe the issuance of additional capital stock would dilute the ownership interest of the Corporation’s existing shareholders. Holders of our common stock have no preemptive rights and are subject to potential dilution. Our articles of incorporation do not provide any shareholder with a preemptive right to subscribe for additional shares of common stock upon any increase thereof. Thus, upon the issuance of any additional shares of common stock or other voting securities of the Company or securities convertible into common stock or other voting securities, shareholders may be unable to maintain their pro rata voting or ownership interest in the Corporation. On June 26, 2009, the Corporation and the Bank each consented to the issuance of an Order to Cease and Desist by the Office of Thrift Supervision (which has since ceased operations). If we do not raise additional capital, we may not be in compliance with the capital requirements of the Bank’s Cease and Desist Order, which could have a material adverse effect upon us. The Cease and Desist Orders required that, no later than December 31, 2009, the Bank had to meet and maintain both a core capital ratio equal to or greater than eight percent and a total risk-based capital ratio equal to or greater than twelve percent. At March 31, 2012, the Bank and Corporation had complied with all aspects of the Cease and Desist Orders, except that the Bank, based upon presently available unaudited financial 28 Table of Contents information, had tier 1 leverage (core) capital and total risk-based capital ratios of 4.51 percent and 8.42 percent, respectively, each below the required capital ratios set in the Cease and Desist Orders. Without a waiver by the OCC or an amendment or modification of the Orders, the Bank could be subject to further regulatory action. All customer deposits remain fully insured to the highest limits set by the FDIC. If the Bank is placed in conservatorship or receivership, it is highly likely that such action would lead to a complete loss of all value of the Company’s ownership interest in the Bank. In addition, further restrictions could be placed on the Bank if it were determined that the Bank was significantly undercapitalized, or critically undercapitalized, with increasingly greater restrictions being imposed as any level of undercapitalization increased. Although the Bank is considered “adequately capitalized” under PCA guidelines for regulatory purposes, we will incur increased premiums for deposit insurance and will trigger acceleration of certain of our brokered deposits if we fall below the “adequately capitalized” threshold. In April 2011, the FDIC issued new base assessment rates dependent upon the risk category assigned to an institution. These rates range between twelve and 45 basis points. The revised assessment criteria is a risk-based determination, rather than solely based on capital levels. Higher insurance premiums may be assessed to institutions that fall in the higher risk categories, which would impact earnings. Future Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation assessments will hurt our earnings. In November 2009, the FDIC issued a rule that required all insured depository institutions, with limited exceptions, to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. Any additional emergency special assessment imposed by the FDIC will likely negatively impact the Company’s earnings. Our allowance for losses on loans and leases may not be adequate to cover probable losses. Our level of non-performing loans decreased significantly in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, relative to the preceding year. Our provision for credit losses decreased by $17.6 million to $33.6 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 from $51.2 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011. Our allowance for loan losses decreased by $38.9 million to $111.2 million, or 5.1% of total loans, at March 31, 2012 from $150.1 million, or 5.6% of total loans at March 31, 2011. Our allowance for loan and foreclosure losses was 42.6% at March 31, 2012, 45.6% at March 31, 2011 and 43.1% at March 31, 2010, respectively, of non-performing assets. There can be no assurance that any future declines in real estate market conditions and values, general economic conditions or changes in regulatory policies will not require us to increase our allowance for loan and lease losses, which would adversely affect our results of operations. If our investment in the common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago is other than temporarily impaired, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially impaired. The Bank owns common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago (“FHLBC”). The common stock is held to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the FHLBC’s advance program. The aggregate cost and fair value of our FHLBC common stock as of March 31, 2012 was $35.8 million, based on its par value. There is no market for the FHLBC common stock and while redemptions may be requested they are at the discretion of the FHLBC. The Bank evaluates the FHLBC stock for impairment on a regular basis. The determination of whether FHLB stock is impaired depends on a number of factors and is based on an assessment of the ultimate recoverability of cost rather than changes in the book value of the shares. If our investment in the common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago were to become other than temporarily impaired, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected. 29 Table of Contents We are not paying dividends on our common stock and are deferring distributions on our preferred stock, and are otherwise restricted from paying cash dividends on our common stock. The failure to resume paying dividends may adversely affect us. We historically paid cash dividends before suspending dividend payments on our common stock. The Federal Reserve, as a matter of policy, has indicated that bank holding companies should not pay dividends using funds from TARP CPP. There is no assurance that we will resume paying cash dividends. Even if we resume paying dividends, future payment of cash dividends on our common stock, if any, will be subject to the prior payment of all unpaid dividends and deferred distributions on our Series B Preferred Stock held by the U.S. Treasury. All dividends are declared and paid at the discretion of our board of directors and are dependent upon our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant. Further, dividend payments on our Series B Preferred Stock are cumulative and therefore unpaid dividends and distributions will accrue and compound on each subsequent dividend payment date. In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of our company, holders of the Series B Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive for each share of Series B Preferred Stock the liquidation amount plus the amount of any accrued and unpaid dividends. Upon deferring six quarterly dividend payments, whether or not consecutive, the Treasury obtained the right to appoint two directors to our board of directors until all accrued but unpaid dividends have been paid. We have deferred twelve dividend payments on the Series B Preferred Stock held by the Treasury as of March 31, 2012. On September 30, 2011, the Treasury exercised its right to appoint two directors to the Board of Directors of the Corporation. Treasury is the sole stockholder of the Corporation’s Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, series B and as such has the right to appoint two directors. Maintaining or increasing market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. Our success depends, in part, on the ability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from fee-based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. We may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or development in technology or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. As a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases. Continued deterioration in the real estate markets or other segments of our loan portfolio could lead to additional losses, which could have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The commercial real estate market continues to experience a variety of difficulties. As a result of increased levels of commercial and consumer delinquencies and declining real estate values, which reduce the customer’s borrowing power and the value of the collateral securing the loan, we have experienced increasing levels of charge-offs and provisions for credit losses. Continued increases in delinquency levels or continued declines in real estate values, which cause our borrowers’ loan-to-value ratios to increase, could result in additional charge-offs and provisions for credit losses. This could have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations. Significant legal actions could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities. We are from time to time subject to claims related to our operations. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. We may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 30 Table of Contents While we attempt to manage the risk from changes in market interest rates, interest rate risk management techniques are not exact. In addition, we may not be able to economically hedge our interest rate risk. A rapid or substantial increase or decrease in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest income and results of operations. Our net income depends primarily upon our net interest income. Net interest income is income that remains after deducting, from total income generated by earning assets, the interest expense attributable to the acquisition of the funds required to support earning assets. Income from earning assets includes income from loans, investment securities and short-term investments. The amount of interest income is dependent on many factors, including the volume of earning assets, the general level of interest rates, the dynamics of changes in interest rates and the level of nonperforming loans. The cost of funds varies with the amount of funds required to support earning assets, the rates paid to attract and hold deposits, rates paid on borrowed funds and the levels of non-interest-bearing demand deposits and equity capital. Different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to changes in market interest rates. We expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities. That means either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest earning assets, or vice versa. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest earning assets, an increase in market rates of interest could reduce our net interest income. Likewise, when interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income. We are unable to predict changes in market interest rates which are affected by many factors beyond our control including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events and changes in the United States and other financial markets. Based on our net interest income simulation model, if market interest rates were to increase immediately by 100 or 200 basis points (a parallel and immediate shift of the yield curve) net interest income would be expected to increase by 6.4% and 13.2%, respectively, from what it would be if rates were to remain at March 31, 2012 levels. The actual amount of any increase or decrease may be higher or lower than that predicted by our simulation model. The amounts and assumptions used in the simulation model should not be viewed as indicative of expected actual results. Actual results will differ from simulated results due to the timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate changes as well as changes in market conditions and management strategies. Net interest income is not only affected by the level and direction of interest rates, but also by the shape of the yield curve, credit spreads, relationships between interest sensitive instruments and key driver rates, balance sheet growth, client loan and deposit preferences and the timing of changes in these variables. An interruption in or breach in security of our information systems may result in a loss of customer business. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure or interruptions or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposits, servicing, or loan origination systems. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of information systems used to process customer transactions could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, we outsource portions of our data processing to third parties. If our third party provider encounters difficulties or if we have difficulty in communicating with such third party, it will significantly affect our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which would significantly affect our business operations. Furthermore, breaches of such third party’s technology may also cause reimbursable loss to our consumer and business customers, through no fault of our own. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with 31 Table of Contents regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of our deposit base; impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures and is insured for these situations, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Corporation is exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which it takes title. In the course of our business, we may own or foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, cash flows, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our regional concentration makes us particularly at risk for changes in economic conditions in our primary market. Our business is primary located in Wisconsin. Thus, we are particularly vulnerable to adverse changes in economic conditions in Wisconsin and the Midwest more generally. Our asset valuations include observable inputs and may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to asset valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We must use estimates, assumptions and judgments when financial assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value. Assets and liabilities carried at fair value inherently result in a higher degree of financial statement volatility. Fair values and the information used to record valuation adjustments for certain assets and liabilities are based on quoted market prices and/or other observable inputs provided by independent third-party sources, when available. When such third-party information is not available, we estimate fair value primarily by using cash flows and other financial modeling techniques utilizing assumptions such as credit quality, liquidity, interest rates and other relevant inputs. Changes in underlying inputs, factors, assumptions or estimates in any of the areas underlying our estimates could materially impact our future financial condition and results of operations. During periods of market disruption, including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be more difficult to value certain of our assets if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the current financial environment. In such cases, certain asset valuations may require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions and interest rates could materially impact the valuation of assets as reported within our consolidated financial statements, and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. 32 Table of Contents Lenders may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud, or certain borrower defaults, which could harm our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. When we sell mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. Our whole loan sale agreements require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event we breach any of these representations or warranties. In addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower fraud. Likewise, we are required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations. While we have taken steps to enhance our underwriting policies and procedures, there can be no assurance that these steps will be effective or reduce risk associated with loans sold in the past. Historically, the volume of repurchases has been insignificant. If the level of repurchase and indemnity activity becomes material, our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. Our Shareholder Rights Plan limits our likelihood of being acquired in a manner not approved by our Board. On November 5, 2010 we entered into a shareholder rights plan designed to reduce the likelihood that we will experience an “ownership change” under U.S. federal income tax laws. The existence of the rights plan may make it more difficult, delay, discourage, prevent or make it more costly to acquire or effect a change-in-control that is not approved by our Board, which in turn could prevent our shareholders from recognizing a gain in the event that a favorable offer is extended and could materially and negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Credit Agreement We are party to a credit agreement that requires us to observe certain covenants that limit our flexibility in operating our business. We are party to a credit agreement, dated as of June 9, 2008, by and among the Corporation, the financial institutions from time to time party to the agreement and U.S. Bank National Association, as administrative agent for the lenders, as amended (the “Credit Agreement”). The most recent amendment, Amendment No. 8 to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement is dated November 29, 2011. The Credit Agreement requires us to comply with affirmative and negative covenants customary for restricted indebtedness. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; • pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; • make certain investments; • sell certain assets; and • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the Corporation’s assets. The Credit Agreement provides that the Bank must attain and maintain certain capital ratios and requires us to retain a financial consultant, as well as other customary representations, warranties, conditions and events of default for agreements of such type. The Agent and the lenders have certain rights, including the right to accelerate the maturity of the borrowings if all covenants are not complied with. Further, the Agent or the lenders have agreed to forbear from exercising their rights and remedies until the earlier of (i) the occurrence of an event of default, as that term is defined in the Amendment, other than failure to make principal payments, or (ii) November 30, 2012. If the lenders under the secured credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to make the payments when due. Accordingly, this creates significant uncertainty related to the Corporation’s operations. 33 Table of Contents We must pay in full the outstanding balance under the Credit Agreement by the earlier of November 30, 2012 or the receipt of net proceeds of a financing transaction from the sale of equity securities. As of March 31, 2012, the total revolving loan commitment under the Credit Agreement was $116.3 million and aggregate borrowings under the Credit Agreement were $116.3 million. We must pay in full the outstanding balance under the Credit Agreement by the earlier of November 30, 2012 or the receipt of net proceeds of a financing transaction from the sale of equity securities of not less than $116.3 million. If the net proceeds are received from the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the terms of such investment prohibit the use of the investment proceeds to repay senior debt, then no payment is required from the Treasury investment. As of the date of this filing, we do not have sufficient cash on hand to reduce our outstanding borrowings to zero. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise sufficient capital or have sufficient cash on hand to reduce our outstanding borrowings to zero by November 30, 2012, which may limit our ability to fund ongoing operations. Unless the maturity date is extended, our outstanding borrowings under our Credit Agreement are due on November 30, 2012. The Credit Agreement does not include a commitment to refinance the remaining outstanding balance of the loans when they mature and there is no guarantee that our lenders will renew their loans at that time. Refusal to provide us with renewals or refinancing opportunities would cause our indebtedness to become immediately due and payable upon the contractual maturity of such indebtedness, which could result in our insolvency if we are unable to repay the debt. If the Agent or the lenders decided not to refinance the remaining outstanding balance of the loans then at the earlier of (i) the occurrence of an event of default under the Amendment (other than a failure to make principal payments), or (ii) November 30 2012, the agent, on behalf of the lenders may, among other remedies, seize the outstanding shares of the Bank’s capital stock held by the Corporation or other securities or assets of the Corporation’s subsidiaries which have been pledged as collateral for borrowings under the Credit Agreement. If the Agent were to take one or more of these actions, it could have a material adverse affect on our reputation, operations and ability to continue as a going concern, and the common shareholders could lose all of their investment. If we are unable to renew, replace or expand our sources of financing on acceptable terms, it may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to shareholders. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive, and any holders of preferred stock that is currently outstanding and that we may issue in the future may receive, a distribution of our available assets prior to holders of our common stock. The decisions by investors and lenders to enter into equity and financing transactions with us will depend upon a number of factors, including our historical and projected financial performance, compliance with the terms of our current credit arrangements, industry and market trends, the availability of capital and our investors’ and lenders’ policies and rates applicable thereto, and the relative attractiveness of alternative investment or lending opportunities. Risks Related to Recent Market, Legislative and Regulatory Events We are highly dependent upon programs administered by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae. Changes in existing U.S. government-sponsored mortgage programs or servicing eligibility standards could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our ability to generate revenues through mortgage loan sales to institutional investors in the form of mortgage-backed securities depends to a significant degree on programs administered by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae and others that facilitate the issuance of mortgage-backed securities in the secondary market. These entities play a powerful role in the residential mortgage industry, and we have significant business relationships with them. Our status as a Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac approved seller/servicer is subject to compliance with each entity’s respective selling and servicing guides. During 2012, 94% of our mortgage loan sales were sold to, or were sold pursuant to programs sponsored by, Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. We also derive other material financial benefits from our relationships with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, including the assumption of credit risk by these entities on loans included in mortgage-backed securities in exchange for our payment of guarantee fees and the ability to avoid certain loan 34 Table of Contents inventory finance costs through streamlined loan funding and sale procedures. Any discontinuation of, or significant reduction or material change in, the operation of these entities or any significant adverse change in the level of activity in the secondary mortgage market or the underwriting criteria of these entities would likely prevent us from originating and selling most, if not all, of our mortgage loan originations. In addition, we service loans on behalf of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, as well as loans that have been securitized pursuant to securitization programs sponsored by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in connection with the issuance of agency guaranteed mortgage-backed securities and a majority of our mortgage servicing rights relate to these servicing activities. These entities establish the base service fee in which to compensate us for servicing loans. In January 2011, the Federal Housing Finance Agency directed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to develop a joint initiative to consider alternatives for future mortgage servicing structures and compensation. Under this proposal, the GSEs are considering potential structures in which the minimum service fee would be reduced or eliminated altogether. The GSEs are also considering different pricing options for non-performing loans to better align servicer incentives with MBS investors and provide the loan guarantor the ability to transfer non-performing servicing. These proposals, if adopted, could cause significant changes that impact the entire mortgage industry. The lower capital requirements could increase competition by lowering barriers to entry on mortgage originations and could increase the concentration of performing loans with larger servicers that have a cost-advantage through economies of scale that would no longer be limited by capital constraints. In February 2011, the Obama administration issued a report to Congress, outlining various options for long-term reform of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. These options involve reducing the role of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the mortgage market and to ultimately wind down both institutions such that the private sector provides the majority of mortgage credit. The report states that any potential reform efforts will make credit less easily available and that any such changes should occur at a measured pace that supports the nation’s economic recovery. Any of these options are likely to result in higher mortgage rates in the future, which could have a negative impact on our Mortgage production business. Additionally, it is unclear what impact these changes will have on the secondary mortgage markets, mortgage-backed securities pricing, and competition in the industry. The potential changes to the government-sponsored mortgage programs, and related servicing compensation structures, could require us to fundamentally change our business model in order to effectively compete in the market. Our inability to make the necessary changes to respond to these changing market conditions or loss of our approved seller/servicer status with any of these entities, would have a material adverse effect on our overall business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The TARP CPP and the ARRA impose certain executive compensation and corporate governance requirements that may adversely affect us and our business, including our ability to recruit and retain qualified employees. The purchase agreement we entered into in connection with our participation in the TARP CPP required us to adopt the Treasury’s standards for executive compensation and corporate governance while the Treasury holds the equity issued pursuant to the TARP CPP, including the common stock which may be issued pursuant to the warrant to purchase 7,399,103 shares of common stock. These standards generally apply to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer and the three next most highly compensated senior executive officers. The standards include: • ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the financial institution; • requiring clawbacks of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate; • prohibiting golden parachute payments to senior executives; and • agreeing not to deduct for tax purposes executive compensation in excess of $500,000 for each senior executive. In particular, the change to the deductibility limit on executive compensation may increase the overall cost of our compensation programs in future periods. 35 Table of Contents ARRA imposed further limitations on compensation during the TARP assistance period including: • a prohibition on making any golden parachute payment to a senior executive officer or any of our next five most highly compensated employees; • a prohibition on any compensation plan that would encourage manipulation of the reported earnings to enhance the compensation of any of its employees; and • a prohibition of the five highest paid executives from receiving or accruing any bonus, retention award, or incentive compensation, or bonus except for long-term restricted stock with a value not greater than one-third of the total amount of annual compensation of the employee receiving the stock. The prohibition may expand to other employees based on increases in the aggregate value of financial assistance that we receive in the future. The Treasury released an interim final rule on TARP standards for compensation and corporate governance on June 10, 2009, which implemented and further expanded the limitations and restrictions imposed on executive compensation and corporate governance by the TARP CPP and ARRA. The new Treasury interim final rules, which became effective on June 15, 2009, also prohibit any tax gross-up payments to senior executive officers and the next 20 highest paid executives. The rule further authorizes the Treasury to establish the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation with broad powers to review compensation plans and corporate governance matters of TARP CPP recipients. These provisions and any future rules issued by the Treasury could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain management capable and motivated sufficiently to manage and operate our business through difficult economic and market conditions. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees to manage and operate our business, we may not be able to successfully execute our business strategy. TARP lending goals may not be attainable. Congress and the bank regulators have encouraged recipients of TARP CPP capital to use such capital to make loans and it may not be possible to safely, soundly and profitably make sufficient loans to creditworthy persons in the current economy to satisfy such goals. Congressional demands for additional lending by TARP CPP recipients, and regulatory demands for demonstrating and reporting such lending are increasing. On November 12, 2008, the bank regulatory agencies issued a statement encouraging banks to, among other things, “lend prudently and responsibly to creditworthy borrowers” and to “work with borrowers to preserve homeownership and avoid preventable foreclosures.” We continue to lend and have expanded our mortgage loan originations, and to report our lending to the Treasury. The future demands for additional lending are unclear and uncertain, and we could be forced to make loans that involve risks or terms that we would not otherwise find acceptable or in our shareholders’ best interest. Such loans could adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition, and may be in conflict with bank regulations and requirements as to liquidity and capital. The profitability of funding such loans using deposits may be adversely affected by increased FDIC insurance premiums. The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal banking authorities. Changes in applicable regulations or legislation could have a substantial impact on our operations. Additional legislation and regulations that could significantly affect our powers, authority and operations may be enacted or adopted in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In that regard, proposals for legislation restructuring the regulation of the financial services industry are currently under consideration. Adoption of such proposals could, among other things, increase the overall costs of regulatory compliance. Further, regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws or regulations by financial institutions and holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. These powers recently have been utilized more frequently due to the serious national, regional and local economic conditions that we and other financial institutions are facing. The exercise of regulatory authority may have a negative impact on our financial 36 Table of Contents condition and results of operations. We cannot predict the actual effects of various governmental, regulatory, monetary and fiscal initiatives, which have been and may be enacted on the financial markets. The terms and costs of these activities, or the failure of these actions to help stabilize the financial markets, asset prices, market liquidity, and a continuation or worsening of current financial market and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock. In addition, failure or the inability to comply with these various requirements can lead to diminished reputation and investor confidence, reduced franchise value, loss of business, curtailment of expansion opportunities, fines and penalties, intervention or sanctions by regulators and costly litigation or expensive additional controls and systems. There can be no assurance that enacted legislation or any proposed federal programs will stabilize the U.S. financial system and such legislation and programs may adversely affect us. There has been much legislative and regulatory action in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the legislation and its implementing regulations or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of the actions by the legislators, the regulatory bodies or the U.S. government to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and access to credit or the trading price of our common shares. Contemplated and proposed legislation, state and federal programs, and increased government control or influence may adversely affect us by increasing the uncertainty in our lending operations and expose us to increased losses, including legislation that would allow bankruptcy courts to permit modifications to mortgage loans on a debtor’s primary residence, moratoriums on a mortgagor’s right to foreclose on property, and requirements that fees be paid to register other real estate owned property. Statutes and regulations may be altered that may potentially increase our costs to service and underwrite mortgage loans. Additionally, federal intervention and operation of formerly private institutions may adversely affect our rights under contracts with such institutions and the way in which we conduct business in certain markets. The fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the net interest margin. The resultant changes in interest rates can also materially decrease the value of certain financial assets we hold, such as debt securities. Its policies can also adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in Federal Reserve Board policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of operations is difficult to predict. The recent ratings downgrade of the United States Government may adversely affect us. In July 2011, certain rating agencies placed the United States government’s long-term sovereign debt rating on their equivalent of negative watch and announced the possibility of a credit rating downgrade. On August 5, 2011, Standard & Poor’s downgraded the United States long-term debt rating from its AAA rating to AA+. On August 8, 2011, Standard & Poor’s downgraded the credit ratings of certain long-term debt instruments issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and other U.S. government agencies linked to long-term U.S. debt. Instruments of this nature are key assets on the balance sheets of financial institutions, including the Bank. These downgrades could adversely affect the market value of such instruments, and could adversely impact our ability to obtain funding that is collateralized by affected instruments, as well as affecting the pricing of that funding when it is available. We cannot predict if, when or how these changes to the credit ratings will affect economic conditions, the Bank’s operations or our financial results. These ratings downgrades could result in a significant adverse impact to us, and could exacerbate the other risks to which we are subject, including those described above. 37 Table of Contents Management’s ability to retain key officers and employees may change. Our future operating results depend substantially upon the continued service of its executive officers and key personnel. Our future operating results also depend in significant part upon its ability to attract and retain qualified management, financial, technical, marketing, sales and support personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we cannot ensure success in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. There may be only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in these positions, and it may be increasingly difficult for us to hire personnel over time. Our ability to retain key officers and employees may be further impacted by legislation and regulation affecting the financial services industry. For example, Section 7001 of the ARRA which amended Section 111 of the EESA in its entirety, as well as the final interim regulations issued by the U.S. Treasury, significantly expanded the executive compensation restrictions. Such restrictions applied to us as a participant in the TARP CPP and generally continued to apply for as long as any Treasury owned shares were outstanding. These ARRA restrictions shall not apply to us during such time when the federal government only holds warrants to purchase common shares. Such restrictions and standards may further impact management’s ability to compete with financial institutions that are not subject to the ARRA limitations on executive compensation. Our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of its key employees, or our inability to attract and retain skilled employees. We are subject to various reporting requirements that increase compliance costs, and failure to comply timely could adversely affect our reputation and the value of our common stock. We are required to comply with various corporate governance and financial reporting requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules and regulations adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Public Corporation Accounting Oversight Board and Nasdaq. In particular, we are required to include management and independent auditor reports on internal controls as part of our Annual Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We expect to continue to spend significant amounts of time and money on compliance with these rules. In addition, pursuant to our Cease and Desist Order with OTS (now administered by the OCC), we must prepare and submit various reports and may face further reporting obligations in the future depending upon our financial condition. Compliance with various regulatory reporting requires significant commitments of time from management and our directors, which reduces the time available for the performance of their other responsibilities. Our failure to track and comply with the various rules may materially adversely affect our reputation, ability to obtain the necessary certifications to financial statements, lead to additional regulatory enforcement actions, and could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Non-compliance with USA PATRIOT Act, Bank Secrecy Act, or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions, and curtail expansion opportunities Financial institutions are required under the USA PATRIOT and Bank Secrecy Acts to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. Financial institutions are also obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury’s office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network if such activities are detected. These rules also require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure or the inability to comply with these regulations could result in fines or penalties, curtailment of expansion opportunities, intervention or sanctions by regulators and costly litigation or expensive additional controls and systems. During the last few years, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. We have developed policies and continues to augment procedures and systems designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations. The impact of the Dodd-Frank Act is still uncertain, but it may increase our costs of doing business and could result in restrictions on certain products and services we offer. Regulation of the financial services industry is undergoing major changes. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly revises and expands the rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement authority of federal bank 38 Table of Contents regulators. Although the statute will have a greater impact on larger institutions than regional bank holding companies such as the Bank, many of its provisions will apply to us. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act: • dissolved the Office of Thrift Supervision, transferring regulation of the Bank to the Office of the Comptroller of Currency and of the Corporation to the Federal Reserve effective July 21, 2011; • is changing the capital requirements for bank holding companies and would require less favorable capital treatment for future issuances of trust preferred (although our existing trust preferred are grandfathered and therefore not subject to the new rules); • raises prudential standards by requiring, for instance, annual internal stress testing and establishment of independent risk committees for banks with $10 billion or more in assets; • grants the FDIC back-up supervisory authority with respect to depository institution holding companies that engage in conduct that poses a foreseeable and material risk to the Deposit Insurance Fund, and heightens the Federal Reserve’s authority to examine, prescribe regulations and take action with respect to all subsidiaries of a bank holding company; • prohibits insured state-chartered banks from engaging in derivatives transactions unless the chartering state’s lending limit laws take into consideration credit exposure to derivative transactions; • specifies that a bank holding company may acquire control of an out-of-state bank only if it is well-capitalized and well-managed, and does not allow interstate merger transactions unless the resulting bank would be well-capitalized and well-managed after the transaction; • changes how the FDIC calculates deposit insurance assessments and effectively requires increases in deposit insurance fees that will be borne primarily by institutions with assets of greater than $10 billion; • subjects both large and small financial institutions to data and information gathering by a newly created Office of Financial Research; • requires retention of 5% of the credit risk in assets transferred, sold or conveyed through issuances of asset-backed securities, with the risk-retention obligation spread between securitizers and originators; • creates a new Consumer Bureau given rulemaking, examination and enforcement authority over consumer protection matters, imposes limits on debit card interchange fees that may be charged by card issuers with $10 billion or more in assets and contains provisions on mortgage-related matters such as steering incentives, determinations as to a borrowers’ ability to repay and prepayment penalties; and • mandates and allows certain changes regarding corporate governance and executive compensation such as shareholder proxy access for publicly traded banks’ director nominations, clawback of incentive-based compensation from executive officers and increased disclosure on compensation arrangements. Some of these changes are effective immediately, though most will be phased in gradually. In addition, the statute in many instances calls for future rulemaking to implement its provisions, so the precise contours of the law and its effects on us cannot yet be fully understood. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and the subsequent exercise by regulators of their revised and expanded powers thereunder could materially impact the profitability of our business, the value of assets we hold or the collateral available for our loans, require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses and expose us to additional costs, taxes, liabilities, enforcement actions and reputational risk. Legislators and regulators are also considering a wide range of proposals beyond the Dodd-Frank Act that, if enacted, could result in major changes to the way banking operations are regulated. We may be subject to more stringent capital requirements. As discussed above, the Dodd-Frank Act would require the federal banking agencies to establish stricter risk-based capital requirements and leverage limits to apply to banks and bank holding companies. In addition, the “Basel III” standards recently announced by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”), if adopted, could lead to significantly higher capital requirements, higher capital charges and more 39 Table of Contents restrictive leverage and liquidity ratios. The standards would, among other things, impose more restrictive eligibility requirements for Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital; increase the minimum Tier 1 common equity ratio to 4.5%, net of regulatory deductions, and introduce a capital conservation buffer of an additional 2.5% of common equity to risk-weighted assets, raising the target minimum common equity ratio to 7%; increase the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio to 8.5% inclusive of the capital conservation buffer; increase the minimum total capital ratio to 10.5% inclusive of the capital buffer; and introduce a countercyclical capital buffer of up to 2.5% of common equity or other fully loss absorbing capital for periods of excess credit growth. Basel III also introduces a non-risk adjusted Tier 1 leverage ratio of 3%, based on a measure of total exposure rather than total assets, and new liquidity standards. The new Basel III capital standards will be phased in from January 1, 2013 until January 1, 2019, and it is not yet known how these standards will be implemented by U.S. regulators generally or how they will be applied to financial institutions of our size. Implementation of these standards, or any other new regulations, may adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, or require us to restrict growth or raise capital, including in ways that may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 