Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should consider carefully each of the following business and investment risk factors and all of the other information in this report. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, the business, financial condition or results of our operations could be materially adversely affected. If that happens, the trading price of our shares of common stock could decline significantly. The risk factors below contain forward-looking statements regarding our business. Actual results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. See "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Information." Risks Relating to Our Business The unsuccessful integration of a business or business segment we acquire could have a material adverse effect on our results. As part of our business strategy, we expect to acquire assets and businesses relating to or complementary to our operations. These acquisitions will involve risks commonly encountered in acquisitions. These risks include exposure to unknown liabilities of the acquired companies, additional acquisition costs and unanticipated expenses. Our quarterly and annual operating results could fluctuate due to the costs and expenses of acquiring and integrating new businesses. We may also experience difficulties in assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired businesses. Our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management's time and attention diverted from existing operations. Our acquisition strategy will likely require additional equity or debt financing, resulting in additional leverage or dilution of ownership. We cannot assure you that any future acquisition will be consummated, or that if consummated, that we will be able to integrate such acquisition successfully. We depend on revenues from a few significant relationships, and any loss, cancellation, reduction, or interruption in these relationships could harm our business. In general, we have derived a material portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers. If sales to such customers were terminated or significantly reduced, our revenues and net income could significantly decline. Our success will depend on our continued ability to develop and manage relationships with significant customers and suppliers. Any adverse change in our relationship with our customers and suppliers may have a material adverse effect on our business. Although we are attempting to expand our customer base, we expect that our customer concentration will not change significantly in the near future. We cannot be sure that we will be able to retain our largest customers and suppliers or that we will be able to attract additional customers and suppliers, or that our customers and suppliers will continue to buy our products in the same amounts as in prior years. The loss of one or more of our largest customers or suppliers, any reduction or interruption in sales to these customers or suppliers, our inability to successfully develop relationships with additional customers or suppliers or future price concessions that we may have to make could significantly harm our business. Attracting and retaining key personnel is an essential element of our future success. Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate executive and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, marketing and information technology support positions. Experienced management and technical, marketing and support personnel are in demand and competition for their talents is intense. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our failure to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we lose the services of our chairman and chief executive officer, our business may suffer. We are dependent on Mr. Ming Yang, our chairman and Mr. Liu Xiaobin, our chief executive officer. The loss of their services could materially harm our business because of the cost and time necessary to retain and train a replacement. Such a loss would also divert management attention away from operational issues. If we do not pass the review and approval for renewing our bromine and salt production license, our bromine business may suffer. We are required to hold a bromine and salt production license in order to operate our bromine and salt production business in the PRC. Our bromine and salt production license is subject to a yearly audit. If we do not successfully pass the yearly approval by relevant government authorities, our bromine and salt production operations may be suspended until we are able to comply with the license requirements which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 10 Table of Contents Our inability to successfully manage the growth of our business may have a material adverse effect on our business, results or operations and financial condition. We expect to experience growth in the number of employees and the scope of our operations as a result of internal growth and acquisitions. Such activities could result in increased responsibilities for management. Our future success will be highly dependent upon our ability to manage successfully the expansion of operations. Our ability to manage and support our growth effectively will be substantially dependent on our ability to implement adequate improvements to financial, inventory, management controls, reporting, order entry systems and other procedures, and hire sufficient numbers of financial, accounting, administrative, and management personnel. Our future success depends on our ability to address potential market opportunities and to manage expenses to match our ability to finance operations. The need to control our expenses will place a significant strain on our management and operational resources. If we are unable to control our expenses effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our management is comprised almost entirely of individuals residing in the PRC with very limited English skills Our management is comprised almost entirely of individuals born and raised in the PRC. As a result of differences in culture, educational background and business experiences, our management may analyze, evaluate and present business opportunities and results of operations differently from the way they are analyzed, evaluated and presented by management teams of public companies in Europe and the United States. In addition, our management has very limited skills in English. Consequently, it is possible that our management team will emphasize or fail to emphasize aspects of our business that might customarily be emphasized in a different manner by comparable public companies from different geographical and political areas. We will face many of the difficulties that companies in the early stage may face. We have a limited operating history as a bromine produce and chemical processing company, which may make it difficult for you to assess our ability to identify merger or acquisition candidates and our growth and earnings potential. Therefore, we may face many of the difficulties that companies in the early stages of their development in new and evolving markets often face. We may continue to face these difficulties in the future, some of which may be beyond our control. If we are unable to successfully address these problems, our future growth and earnings will be negatively affected. We cannot accurately forecast our future revenues and operating results, which may fluctuate. Our short operating history and the rapidly changing nature of the markets in which we compete make it difficult to accurately forecast our revenues and operating results. Furthermore, our revenues and operating results may fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors, including the following: · the success of identifying and completing mergers and acquisitions; · the introduction of competitive products by different or new competitors; · reduced demand for any given product; · difficulty in keeping current with changing technologies; · increased or uneven expenses, whether related to sales and marketing, product development or administration; · deferral of recognition of our revenue in accordance with applicable accounting principles due to the time required to complete projects; and · costs related to possible acquisitions of technology or businesses. Due to these factors, forecasts may not be achieved, either because expected revenues do not occur or because they occur at lower prices or on terms that are less favorable to us. In addition, these factors increase the chances that our results could be lower than the expectations of investors and analysts. If so, the market price of our stock would likely decline. 11 Table of Contents Conflicts of interest. Mr. Ming Yang, our chairman, was a substantial owner of SCHC and SCYI before their acquisition by us, and remains a substantial owner of our securities. There may have been conflicts of interest between Mr. Yang and our Company as a result of such ownership interests. The terms on which we acquired SCHC and SCYI may have been different from those that would have been obtained if SCHC and SCYI were owned by unrelated parties. Risks Related to Doing Business in the People's Republic of China Our business operations take place primarily in the People's Republic of China. Because Chinese laws, regulations and policies are changing, our Chinese operations will face several risks summarized below. - Limitations on Chinese economic market reforms may discourage foreign investment in Chinese businesses. The value of investments in Chinese businesses could be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in China. The economic reforms in China in recent years are regarded by China's central government as a way to introduce economic market forces into China. Given the overriding desire of the central government leadership to maintain stability in China amid rapid social and economic changes in the country, the economic market reforms of recent years could be slowed, or even reversed. Any change in policy by the Chinese government could adversely affect investments in Chinese businesses. Changes in policy could result in imposition of restrictions on currency conversion, imports or the source of supplies, as well as new laws affecting joint ventures and foreign-owned enterprises doing business in China. Although China has been pursuing economic reforms, events such as a change in leadership or social disruptions that may occur upon the proposed privatization of certain state-owned industries, could significantly affect the government's ability to continue with its reform. - We face economic risks in doing business in China. As a developing nation, China's economy is more volatile than that of developed Western industrial economies. It differs significantly from that of the U.S. or a Western European country in such respects as structure, level of development, capital reinvestment, legal recourse, resource allocation and self-sufficiency. Only in recent years has the Chinese economy moved from what had been a command economy through the 1970s to one that during the 1990s encouraged substantial private economic activity. In 1993, the Constitution of China was amended to reinforce such economic reforms. The trends of the 1990s indicate that future policies of the Chinese government will emphasize greater utilization of market forces. For example, in 1999 the Government announced plans to amend the Chinese Constitution to recognize private property, although private business will officially remain subordinate to state-owned companies, which are the mainstay of the Chinese economy. However, we cannot assure you that, under some circumstances, the government's pursuit of economic reforms will not be restrained or curtailed. Actions by the central government of China could have a significant adverse effect on economic conditions in the country as a whole and on the economic prospects for our Chinese operations. - The Chinese legal and judicial system may negatively impact foreign investors. In 1982, the National Peoples Congress amended the Constitution of China to authorize foreign investment and guarantee the "lawful rights and interests" of foreign investors in China. However, China's system of laws is not yet comprehensive. The legal and judicial systems in China are still under development , and enforcement of existing laws is inconsistent. Many judges in China lack the depth of legal training and experience that would be expected of a judge in a more developed country. Because the Chinese judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing the laws that exist, anticipation of judicial decision-making is more uncertain than would be expected in a more developed country. It may be impossible to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of laws that do exist, or to obtain enforcement of the judgment of one court by a court of another jurisdiction. China's legal system is based on written statutes; a decision by one judge does not set a legal precedent that is required to be followed by judges in other cases. In addition, the interpretation of Chinese laws may shift to reflect domestic political changes. The promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws and the pre-emption of local regulations by national laws may adversely affect foreign investors. However, the trend of legislation over the last 20 years has significantly enhanced the protection of foreign investment and allowed for more control by foreign parties of their investments in Chinese enterprises. We cannot assure you that a change in leadership, social or political disruption, or unforeseen circumstances affecting China's political, economic or social life, will not affect the Chinese government's ability to continue to support and pursue these reforms. Such a shift could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. 12 Table of Contents The practical effect of the People’s Republic of China’s legal system on our business operations in China can be viewed from two separate but intertwined considerations. First, as a matter of substantive law, the Foreign Invested Enterprise laws provide significant protection from government interference. In addition, these laws guarantee the full enjoyment of the benefits of corporate articles and contracts to Foreign Invested Enterprise participants. These laws, however, do impose standards concerning corporate formation and governance, which are not qualitatively different from the general corporation laws of the several states. Similarly, the accounting laws and regulations of the People’s Republic of China mandate accounting practices which are not consistent with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. China's accounting laws require that an annual "statutory audit" be performed in accordance with People’s Republic of China’s accounting standards and that the books of account of Foreign Invested Enterprises are maintained in accordance with Chinese accounting laws. Article 14 of the People’s Republic of China Wholly Foreign-Owned Enterprise Law requires a Wholly Foreign-Owned Enterprise to submit certain periodic fiscal reports and statements to designated financial and tax authorities, at the risk of business license revocation. Second, while the enforcement of substantive rights may appear less clear than United States procedures, Foreign Invested Enterprises and Wholly Foreign-Owned Enterprises are Chinese registered companies, which enjoy the same status as other Chinese registered companies in business-to-business dispute resolution. Generally, the Articles of Association provide that all business disputes pertaining to Foreign Invested Enterprises are to be resolved by the Arbitration Institute of the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce in Stockholm, Sweden, applying Chinese substantive law. Any award rendered by this arbitration tribunal is, by the express terms of the respective Articles of Association, enforceable in accordance with the "United Nations Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards (1958)." Therefore, as a practical matter, although no assurances can be given, the Chinese legal infrastructure, while different in operation from its United States counterpart, should not present any significant impediment to the operation of Foreign Invested Enterprises. Because our principal assets are located outside of the United States and some of our directors and all of our executive officers reside outside of the United States, it may be difficult for you to enforce your rights based on the United States Federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors in the United States or to enforce judgments of United States courts against us or them in the People's Republic of China. In addition, our operating subsidiaries and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. You will find it difficult to enforce your legal rights based on the civil liability provisions of the United States Federal securities laws against us in the courts of either the United States or the People's Republic of China and, even if civil judgments are obtained in courts of the United States, to enforce such judgments in the courts of the People's Republic of China. In addition, it is unclear if extradition treaties in effect between the United States and the People's Republic of China would permit effective enforcement against us or our officers and directors of criminal penalties, under the United States Federal securities laws or otherwise. - Economic Reform Issues Although the Chinese government owns the majority of productive assets in China, during the past several years the government has implemented economic reform measures that emphasize decentralization and encourage private economic activity. Because these economic reform measures may be inconsistent or ineffectual, we are unable to assure you that: · We will be able to capitalize on economic reforms; · The Chinese government will continue its pursuit of economic reform policies; · The economic policies, even if pursued, will be successful; · Economic policies will not be significantly altered from time to time; and · Business operations in China will not become subject to the risk of nationalization. Since 1979, the Chinese government has reformed its economic systems. Because many reforms are unprecedented or experimental, they are expected to be refined and improved. Other political, economic and social factors, such as political changes, changes in the rates of economic growth, unemployment or inflation, or in the disparities in per capita wealth between regions within China, could lead to further readjustment of the reform measures. This refining and readjustment process may negatively affect our operations. 13 Table of Contents Over the last few years, China's economy has registered a high growth rate. Recently, there have been indications that rates of inflation have increased. In response, the Chinese government recently has taken measures to curb this excessively expansive economy. These measures have included revaluations of the Chinese currency, the Renminbi (RMB), restrictions on the availability of domestic credit, and limited re-centralization of the approval process for purchases of some foreign products. These austerity measures alone may not succeed in slowing down the economy's excessive expansion or control inflation, and may result in severe dislocations in the Chinese economy. The Chinese government may adopt additional measures to further combat inflation, including the establishment of freezes or restraints on certain projects or markets. To date, reforms to China's economic system have not adversely impacted our operations and are not expected to adversely impact operations in the foreseeable future; however, there can be no assurance that the reforms to China's economic system will continue or that we will not be adversely affected by changes in China's political, economic, and social conditions and by changes in policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws and regulations, measures which may be introduced to control inflation, changes in the rate or method of taxation, imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion and remittance abroad, and reduction in tariff protection and other import restrictions. Risks Associated with Bromine Extraction We are subject to risks associated with our operations which may affect our results. The resource industry in the PRC has drawbacks that the resource industry does not have within the United States. For instance: · In China, insurance coverage is a relatively new concept compared to that of the United States and for certain aspects of a business operation, insurance coverage is restricted or expensive. Workers compensation for employees in the PRC may be unavailable or, if available, insufficient to adequately cover such employees. · The environmental laws and regulations in the PRC set various standards regulating certain aspects of health and environmental quality, including, in some cases, the obligation to rehabilitate current and former facilities and locations where operations are or were conducted. Violation of those standards could result in a temporary or permanent restriction by the PRC of our bromine operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately address any of these or other limitations. Our earnings and, therefore our profitability, may be affected by price volatility. We anticipate that the majority of our future revenues will be derived from the sale of bromine and products derived from bromine and, as a result, our earnings are directly related to the prices of these products. There are many factors influencing the price of these products including expectations for inflation; global and regional demand and production; political and economic conditions; and production costs. These factors are beyond our control and are impossible for us to predict. As a result, price changes may adversely affect our operating results. We may become subject to numerous risks and hazards associated with our chemical processing business. Bromine is highly corrosive and must be handled carefully in order to avoid leakage and damage to containers, transportation equipment and other facilities. The risks associated with bromine include: · environmental hazards; and · industrial accidents, including personal injury. Such risks could result in: · damage to or destruction of properties or production facilities; · personal injury or death; · environmental damage; · monetary losses; and · legal liability. Our business operations and related activities may be subject to PRC government regulations concerning environmental protection. We may have to make a significant financial commitment for the construction of environmental protection facilities and the establishment of a sound environmental protection management and monitoring system. Compliance with existing and future environmental protection regulations may increase our operating costs and may adversely affect our operating results. 14 Table of Contents Our operations and business activities may involve dangerous materials. Although we may establish stringent rules relating to the storage, handling and use of dangerous materials, there is no assurance that accidents will not occur. Should we be held liable for any such accident, we may be subject to penalties and possible criminal proceedings may be brought against our employees. Risks Relating to our Common Stock and our status as a Public Company The price of our common stock may be affected by a limited trading volume and may fluctuate significantly. There has been a limited public market for our common stock and we cannot assure you that an active trading market for our stock will develop or if developed, will be maintained. The absence of an active trading market may adversely affect our stockholders' ability to sell our common stock in short time periods, or possibly at all. In addition, we cannot assure you that you will be able to sell shares of common stock that you have purchased without incurring a loss. The market price of our common stock may not necessarily bear any relationship to our book value, assets, past operating results, financial condition or any other established criteria of value, and may not be indicative of the market price for the common stock in the future. In addition, the market price for our common stock may be volatile depending on a number of factors, including business performance, industry dynamics, and news announcements or changes in general economic conditions. We have not and do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock; because of this our securities could face devaluation in the market. We have paid no dividends on our common stock to date and it is not anticipated that any dividends will be paid to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. While our dividend policy will be based on the operating results and capital needs of the business, it is anticipated that any earnings will be retained to finance our future expansion and for the implementation of our business plan. As an investor, you should take note of the fact that a lack of a dividend can further affect the market value of our stock, and could significantly affect the value of any investment in our Company. We will continue to incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance requirements. As a public company we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, together with rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and applicable market regulators. These rules impose various requirements on public companies, including requiring certain corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these new compliance requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, commencing in 2007, we must perform system and process evaluations and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Compliance with Section 404 may require that we incur substantial accounting expenses and expend significant management efforts. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if our accountants later identify deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other applicable regulatory authorities. Lack of management control by purchasers of our common stock. As of the date of this report, Mr. Ming Yang, our chairman and former chief executive officer, and his affiliates, beneficially owned approximately 38.8% of our common stock. As a result of this concentration of ownership, our public stockholders, acting alone, do not have the ability to influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our directors or significant corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership, which is not subject to any voting restrictions, may discourage or thwart efforts by third parties to take-over or effect a change in control of our Company that may be desirable for our stockholders, and may limit the price that investors are willing to pay for our common stock. 15 Table of Contents Our Board of Directors has the authority, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with terms that may not be beneficial to common stock holders and with the ability to adversely affect stockholder voting power and perpetuate the board's control over the Company. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors by resolution may authorize the issuance of up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series with such limitations and restrictions as it may determine, in its sole discretion, with no further authorization by security holders required for the issuance thereof. The Board may determine the specific terms of the preferred stock, including: designations; preferences; conversions rights; cumulative; relative; participating; and optional or other rights, including: voting rights; qualifications; limitations; or restrictions of the preferred stock. The issuance of preferred stock may adversely affect the voting power and other rights of the holders of common stock. Preferred stock may be issued quickly with terms calculated to discourage, make more difficult, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. As a result, the Board of Directors' ability to issue preferred stock may discourage the potential hostile acquirer, possibly resulting in beneficial negotiations. Negotiating with an unfriendly acquirer may result in terms more favorable to us and our stockholders. Conversely, the issuance of preferred stock may adversely affect any market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of the common stock. We presently have no plans to issue any preferred stock. We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete an acquisition, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders or subject our company to risks upon default We may issue our securities to acquire companies or assets. Most likely, we will issue additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock, or both, to complete acquisitions. If we issue additional shares of our common stock or shares of our preferred stock, the equity interest of our existing stockholders may be reduced significantly, and the market price of our common stock may decrease. The shares of preferred stock we issue are likely to provide holders with dividend, liquidation and voting rights, and may include participation rights, senior to, and more favorable than, the rights and powers of holders of our common stock. If we issue debt securities as part of an acquisition, and we are unable to generate sufficient operating revenues to pay the principal amount and accrued interest on that debt, we may be forced to sell all or a significant portion of our assets to satisfy our debt service obligations, unless we are able to refinance or negotiate an extension of our payment obligation. Even if we are able to meet our debt service obligations as they become due, the holders of that debt may accelerate payment if we fail to comply with, and/or are unable to obtain waivers of, covenants that require us to maintain certain financial ratios or reserves or satisfy certain other financial restrictions. In addition, financial and other covenants in the agreements we may enter into to secure debt financing may restrict our ability to obtain additional financing and our flexibility in operating our business. We have significant indebtedness. We are significantly leveraged and our indebtedness is substantial in relation to our stockholders' equity. Our ability to make principal and interest payments will depend on future performance, which is subject to many factors, some of which are outside our control. In the case of a continuing default with respect to this indebtedness, the lender will have the right to foreclose on our assets, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Payment of principal and interest on this indebtedness may limit our ability to pay cash dividends to stockholders and the documents governing this indebtedness prohibit the payment of cash dividends in certain situations. Our leverage may also adversely affect our ability to finance future operations and capital needs, may limit our ability to pursue business opportunities and may make our results of operations more susceptible to adverse economic conditions. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We have approximately 34,553,566 shares of our common stock outstanding as of February 22, 2010. There are a limited number of holders of our common stock. Future sales of our common stock, pursuant to a registration statement or Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or the perception that such sales could occur, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The number of our shares available for sale pursuant to registration statements or Rule 144 is very large relative to the trading volume of our shares. Any attempt to sell a substantial number of our shares could severely depress the market price of our common stock. In addition, we may use our capital stock in the future to finance acquisitions and to compensate employees and management, which will further dilute the interests of our existing shareholders and could also depress the trading price of our common stock. 16 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 