ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our inability to accurately forecast and estimate the amount and timing of future collections could have a material adverse effect on results of operations. Since cash flows available to repay the Loans are generated, in most cases, from the underlying Consumer Loans, the ability to accurately forecast Consumer Loan performance is critical to our success. At the time of Consumer Loan acceptance or purchase, we forecast future expected cash flows from the Consumer Loan. Based on these forecasts, we make an advance or cash payment to the related dealer-partner at a level designed to achieve an acceptable return on capital. If Consumer Loan performance equals or exceeds original expectations, it is likely the target return on capital will be achieved. However, actual cash flows from any individual Consumer Loan are often different than cash flows estimated at Consumer Loan inception. There can be no assurance that estimates will be accurate or that Consumer Loan performance will be as expected. In the event that we underestimate the default risk or under-price products, the financial position, liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected, possibly to a material degree. Due to increased competition from traditional financing sources and non-traditional lenders, we may not be able to compete successfully. The automobile finance market for consumers who do not qualify for conventional automobile financing is large and highly competitive. The market is served by a variety of companies including “buy here, pay here” dealerships. The market is also currently served by banks, captive finance affiliates of automobile manufacturers, credit unions and independent finance companies both publicly and privately owned. Many of these companies are much larger and have greater financial resources than are available to us, and many have long standing relationships with automobile dealerships. Providers of automobile financing have traditionally competed based on the interest rate charged, the quality of credit accepted, the flexibility of loan terms offered and the quality of service provided to dealers and consumers. There is potential that significant direct competition could emerge and that we may be unable to compete successfully. We may be unable to continue to access funding sources and obtain capital on favorable terms needed to maintain and grow the business. We currently use four primary sources of debt financing: (i) a revolving secured line of credit with a commercial bank syndicate; (ii) a revolving secured warehouse facility with institutional investors; (iii) SEC Rule 144A asset-backed secured borrowings (“Term ABS 144A”) with qualified institutional investors; and (iv) a residual credit facility with an institutional investor. There can be no assurance that new or additional financing can be obtained, or that it will be available on acceptable terms. If our various financing alternatives were to become limited or unavailable, we may have to limit business activity, and operations could be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our outstanding debt and fund operations. We currently have substantial outstanding indebtedness and our credit facilities allow us to incur significant amounts of additional debt. The ability to make payment of principal or interest on indebtedness will depend in part on our future operating performance, which to a certain extent is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow in the future to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing. There can be no assurance that any such refinancing will be possible or that any additional financing can be obtained on sustainable terms. Dependence on securitization program and financial guaranty insurance. We rely upon our ability to transfer Loans to securitization trusts and sell securities in the asset-backed securities market to generate cash proceeds for repayment of credit facilities and to fund new Loans. The asset-backed securities market has been currently experiencing unprecedented disruptions. Current conditions in this market include reduced liquidity, high credit risk premiums for certain market participants and reduced investor 12 Table of Contents demand for asset-backed securities, particularly those backed by sub-prime collateral. These conditions, which may increase our cost of funding and reduce our access to the asset-backed securities market, may continue or worsen in the future. We attempt to mitigate the impact of market disruptions by obtaining adequate committed credit facilities and accessing other sources of financing from a variety of reliable sources. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful in selling securities in the asset-backed securities market, that our credit facilities and other sources of financing will be adequate to fund Loans until the disruptions in the securitization markets subside or that the cost of debt will allow us to operate at profitable levels. Disruptions in this market or any adverse change or delay in our ability to access the market could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. We execute securitization transactions to fund our future liquidity needs. There can be no assurance that funding will be available to us through these sources or, if available, that it will be on terms acceptable to us. If these, and other sources of funding are not available to us on a regular basis for any reason, including the occurrence of events of default, deterioration in loss experience on the Loans, breach of financial covenants or portfolio and pool performance measures, disruption of the asset-backed market or otherwise, we could be required to revise the scale of our business, including the possible discontinuation of funding Loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business and financial objectives. To date, most of our securitizations in the United States have utilized financial guaranty insurance policies provided by various monoline insurance providers to achieve AAA/Aaa ratings on the insured securities issued in the securitization transactions. These ratings reduce the costs of securitizations and enhance the marketability of these transactions to investors in asset-backed securities. The downgrading of monoline insurance providers’ credit ratings or the inability to structure alternative credit enhancements, such as senior subordinated transactions for our securitization program could result in higher interest costs for future securitizations sponsored by us and larger initial credit enhancement requirements. The absence of a financial guaranty insurance policy may also impair the marketability of our securitizations. These events could have a material adverse effect on the cost and availability of capital which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. Requirements under credit facilities to meet financial and portfolio performance covenants. Our credit facilities contain various covenants requiring certain minimum financial ratios and minimum asset quality. Failure to meet any of these covenants could result in an event of default under these agreements. If we cannot comply with the requirements in our credit facilities, then the lenders may increase our borrowing costs, require us to repay immediately all of the outstanding debt, enforce their interests against collateral pledged under these agreements or restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings under these facilities. If our debt payments were accelerated, our assets might not be sufficient to fully repay the debt. These lenders may require us to use all of our available cash to repay our debt or foreclose upon their collateral. We may not be able to obtain a waiver of these provisions or refinance our debt, if needed. In such case, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would suffer. Interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our borrowing costs, profitability and liquidity. Our profitability may be directly affected by the level of and fluctuations in interest rates, which affects our borrowing costs. Our profitability and liquidity could be adversely affected during any period of higher interest rates, possibly to a material degree. We monitor the interest rate environment and employ hedging strategies designed to mitigate the impact of increases in interest rates. We can provide no assurance, however, that hedging strategies will mitigate the impact of increases in interest rates. The substantial regulation to which we are subject could result in potential liability. Our business is subject to various laws and regulations which require licensing and qualification; limit interest rates, fees and other charges associated with the Consumer Loans assigned to us; require specified disclosures by dealer-partners to consumers; govern the sale and terms of ancillary products; and define the rights to repossess and sell collateral. Failure to comply with, or an adverse change in, these laws or regulations could have a material 13 Table of Contents adverse effect on us by, among other things, limiting the jurisdictions in which we may operate, restricting the ability to realize the value of the collateral securing the Consumer Loans, making it more costly or burdensome to do business, or resulting in potential liability. In addition, governmental regulations which would deplete the supply of used vehicles, such as environmental protection regulations governing emissions or fuel consumption, could have a material adverse effect on us. The sale of insurance products in connection with Consumer Loans assigned to us by dealer-partners is also subject to state laws and regulations. As the holder of the Consumer Loans that contain these products, some of these state laws and regulations may apply to our servicing and collection of the Consumer Loans. Although we do not believe that such laws and regulations significantly affect our business because we do not deal directly with consumers in the sale of insurance products, there can be no assurance that insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which such products are offered by dealer-partners will not seek to regulate or restrict the operation of the business in such jurisdictions. Any such action could materially adversely affect the income received from such products. Adverse changes in economic conditions, or in the automobile or finance industries or the non-prime consumer market, could adversely affect our financial position, liquidity and results of operations and our ability to enter into future financing transactions. We are subject to general economic conditions which are beyond our control. During periods of economic slowdown or recession, delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses may increase. These periods may also be accompanied by decreased consumer demand for automobiles and declining values of automobiles securing outstanding Consumer Loans, which weakens collateral coverage and increases the amount of a loss in the event of default. Significant increases in the inventory of used automobiles during periods of economic recession may also depress the prices at which repossessed automobiles may be sold or delay the timing of these sales. Because our business is focused on consumers who do not qualify for conventional automobile financing, the actual rates of delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses on these Consumer Loans could be higher than that of those experienced in the general automobile finance industry, and could be more dramatically affected by a general economic downturn. In addition, during an economic slowdown or recession, our servicing costs may increase without a corresponding increase in service fee income. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, defaults, repossessions or losses or increased servicing costs could also materially adversely affect our financial position, liquidity and results of operations and our ability to enter into future financing transactions. Litigation we are involved in from time to time may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As a result of the consumer-oriented nature of the industry in which we operate and uncertainties with respect to the application of various laws and regulations in some circumstances, we are subject to various consumer claims and litigation seeking damages and statutory penalties, based upon, among other things, usury, disclosure inaccuracies, wrongful repossession, violations of bankruptcy stay provisions, certificate of title disputes, fraud and breach of contract. Some litigation against us could take the form of class action complaints by consumers. As the assignee of Consumer Loans originated by dealer-partners, we may also be named as a co-defendant in lawsuits filed by consumers principally against dealer-partners. The damages and penalties claimed by consumers in these types of matters can be substantial. The relief requested by the plaintiffs varies but includes requests for compensatory, statutory and punitive damages. A significant judgment against us in connection with any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on our senior management and the loss of any of these individuals or an inability to hire additional personnel could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Our senior management average over 9 years of experience with the Company. Our success is dependent upon the management and the leadership skills of these managers. In addition, competition from other companies to hire our personnel possessing the necessary skills and experience required could contribute to an increase in employee turnover. The loss of any of these individuals or an inability to attract and retain additional qualified personnel could 14 Table of Contents adversely affect us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our existing senior management personnel or attract additional qualified personnel. Our inability to properly safeguard confidential consumer information. If third parties or our employees are able to penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate our customers’ personal information or loan information, or if we give third parties or our employees improper access to our customers’ personal information or loan information, we could be subject to liability. This liability could include identity theft or other similar fraud-related claims. This liability could also include claims for other misuses or losses of personal information, including for unauthorized marketing purposes. Other liabilities could include claims alleging misrepresentation of our privacy and data security practices. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure online transmission of confidential consumer information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments may result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms that we use to protect sensitive customer transaction data. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may be required to expend capital and other resources to protect against such security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Our security measures are designed to protect against security breaches, but our failure to prevent such security breaches could subject us to liability, decrease our profitability, and damage our reputation. Our operations could suffer from telecommunications or technology downtime or increased costs. The temporary or permanent loss of our computer and telecommunications equipment, software systems and Internet access, through system conversions or operating malfunction, could disrupt our operations. In the normal course of our business, we must record and process significant amounts of data quickly and accurately to access, maintain and expand the databases we use for our origination and collection activities. Any failure of our information systems or software and our backup systems could interrupt our business operations and harm our business. Our ability to integrate computer and telecommunications technologies into our business is essential to our competitive position and our success. Computer and telecommunications technologies are evolving rapidly and are characterized by short product life cycles. We may not be successful in anticipating, managing or adopting technological changes on a timely basis. While we believe that our existing information systems are sufficient to meet our current demands and continued expansion, our future growth may require additional investment in these systems. We cannot ensure that adequate capital resources will be available to us at the appropriate time. Natural disasters, acts of war, terrorist attacks and threats or the escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or otherwise may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Natural disasters, acts of war, terrorist attacks and the escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or otherwise may have negative and significant effects, such as imposition of increased security measures, changes in applicable laws, market disruptions and job losses. Such events may have an adverse effect on the economy in general. Moreover, the potential for future terrorist attacks and the national and international responses to such threats could affect the business in ways that cannot be predicted. The effect of any of these events or threats could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 15 Table of Contents 