Item 1A. Risk Factors This report includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are all statements other than statements of historical fact included in this report, including, without limitation, the statements under the headings “Business,” “Properties,” “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities,” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks” regarding our financial position and liquidity, payment of dividends, share repurchases, strategic plans, future financing plans, development and capital expenditures, business strategies, and our other plans and objectives for future operations and activities. Forward-looking statements are based on our assumptions and analysis made in light of our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors that we believe are appropriate under the circumstances. These statements are subject to a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties, including the risk factors discussed below and in our other filings with the SEC, general economic and business conditions, the business opportunities that may be presented to and pursued by us, changes in laws or regulations and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Readers are cautioned that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and the actual results or developments may differ materially from those projected, predicted or assumed in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations include, among others, the following: We are vulnerable to concentration risks because our operations are currently almost exclusive to the Austin, Texas, market. Our real estate activities are almost entirely located in Austin, Texas. Because of our geographic concentration and limited number of projects, our operations are more vulnerable to local economic downturns and adverse project-specific risks than those of larger, more diversified companies. The performance of the Austin economy greatly affects our sales and consequently the underlying values of our properties. The Austin economy is heavily influenced by conditions in the technology industry. In a weak technology market, which had been the recent condition, we experienced reduced sales, primarily affecting our “high-end” properties, which can significantly affect our financial condition and results of operations. Two of our three office buildings are primarily leased by a single tenant. Our two office buildings at 7000 West are primarily leased to a single tenant. Should this tenant default on its obligations, we may not be able to find another tenant to occupy the space under similar terms or at all. Failure to maintain high occupancy rates for these buildings could hinder our ability to repay project loans secured by these buildings or limit our ability to refinance or extend the maturity of these loans. 5 Table of Contents Aggressive attempts by certain parties to restrict growth in the area of our holdings have in the past had, and may in the future have, a negative effect on our development and sales activities. Although we will defend the development entitlements applicable to our properties, the efforts of special interest groups have affected and may again negatively impact our development and sales activities. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations, we may find it necessary to curtail our development activities. Significant capital resources will be required to fund our development expenditures. Our performance continues to be dependent on future cash flows from real estate sales and rental income, and there can be no assurance that we will generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain sufficient funds to meet the expected development plans for our properties. Our results of operations and financial condition are greatly affected by the performance of the real estate industry. Our real estate activities are subject to numerous factors beyond our control, including local real estate market conditions (both where our properties are located and in areas where our potential customers reside), substantial existing and potential competition, general national, regional and local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and mortgage availability and changes in demographic conditions. Real estate markets have historically been subject to strong periodic cycles driven by numerous factors beyond the control of market participants. Real estate investments often cannot easily be converted into cash and market values may be adversely affected by these economic circumstances, market fundamentals, competition and demographic conditions. Because of the effect these factors have on real estate values, it is difficult to predict with certainty the level of future sales or sales prices that will be realized for individual assets. Our real estate operations are also dependent upon the availability and cost of mortgage financing for potential customers, to the extent they finance their purchases, and for buyers of the potential customers’ existing residences. Unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions could hurt occupancy or rental rates. Market and economic conditions may significantly affect rental rates. Occupancy and rental rates in our market, in turn, may significantly affect our profitability and our ability to satisfy our financial obligations. The risks that may affect conditions in our market include the following: · the economic climate, which may be adversely impacted by industry slowdowns and other factors; · local conditions, such as oversupply of office space and the demand for office space; · the inability or unwillingness of tenants to pay their current rent or rent increases; and · competition from other available office buildings and changes in market rental rates. Our operations are subject to an intensive regulatory approval process. Before we can develop a property, we must obtain a variety of approvals from local and state governments with respect to such matters as zoning, density, parking, subdivision, site planning and environmental issues. Some of these approvals are discretionary by nature. Because government agencies and special interest groups have in the past expressed concerns about our development plans in or near Austin, our ability to develop these properties and realize future income from our properties could be delayed, reduced, prevented or made more expensive. Several special interest groups have long opposed our plans in the Austin area and have taken various actions to partially or completely restrict development in some areas, including areas where some of our most valuable properties are located. We have actively opposed these actions and do not believe unfavorable rulings would have a significant long-term adverse effect on the overall value of our property holdings. However, because of the regulatory environment that has existed in the Austin area and the intensive opposition of several special interest groups, there can be no assurance that our expectations will prove correct. Our operations are subject to governmental environmental regulation, which can change at any time and generally would result in an increase to our costs. Real estate development is subject to state and federal regulations and to possible interruption or termination because of environmental considerations, including, without limitation, air and water quality and protection of endangered species and their habitats. Certain of the Barton Creek properties include nesting territories for the Golden Cheek Warbler, a federally listed 6 Table of Contents endangered species. In 1995, we received a permit from the U.S. Wildlife Service pursuant to the Endangered Species Act, which to date has allowed the development of the Barton Creek and Lantana properties free of restrictions under the Endangered Species Act related to the maintenance of habitat for the Golden Cheek Warbler. Additionally, in April 1997, the U.S. Department of Interior listed the Barton Springs Salamander as an endangered species after a federal court overturned a March 1997 decision by the Department of Interior not to list the Barton Springs Salamander based on a conservation agreement between the State of Texas and federal agencies. The listing of the Barton Springs Salamander has not affected, nor do we anticipate it will affect, our Barton Creek and Lantana properties for several reasons, including the results of technical studies and our U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 10(a) permit obtained in 1995. The development permitted by our 2002 Circle C settlement with the City has been reviewed and approved by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and, as a result, we do not anticipate that the 1997 listing of the Barton Springs Salamander will impact our Circle C properties. We are making, and will continue to make, expenditures with respect to our real estate development for the protection of the environment. Emphasis on environmental matters will result in additional costs in the future. The real estate business is very competitive and many of our competitors are larger and financially stronger than we are. The real estate business is highly competitive. We compete with a large number of companies and individuals, and many of them have significantly greater financial and other resources than we have. Our competitors include local developers who are committed primarily to particular markets and also national developers who acquire properties throughout the United States (U.S.). Our operations are subject to natural risks. Our performance may be adversely affected by weather conditions that delay development or damage property. The U.S. military intervention in Iraq, the terrorist attacks in the U.S. on September 11, 2001 and the potential for additional future terrorist acts have created economic, political and social uncertainties that could materially and adversely affect our business. It is possible that further acts of terrorism may be directed against the U.S. domestically or abroad, and such acts of terrorism could be directed against properties and personnel of companies such as ours. Moreover, while our property and business interruption insurance covers damages to insured property directly caused by terrorism, this insurance does not cover damages and losses caused by war. Terrorism and war developments may materially and adversely affect our business and profitability and the prices of our common stock in ways that we cannot predict at this time. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 