Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Form 10-K, including those risks set forth under the heading entitled “Forward-Looking Statements”, and in other documents that we file with the SEC and the CSA, before making any investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the risks or uncertainties actually occur or develop, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could change. Under these circumstances, the market value of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in our securities.Competitive RisksWe operate in an extremely competitive industry. If competitors develop or acquire more effective or less costly drugs for our target indications, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.Many of our competitors, particularly large pharmaceutical companies, have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do. Many of our competitors spend significantly more on research and development related activities than we do. Others may succeed in developing or acquiring products that are more effective than those currently marketed or proposed for development by us. In addition, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private organizations conducting research may seek patent protection with respect to potentially competitive products. They may also establish exclusive collaborative or licensing relationships with our competitors. We have faced generic competition in the past and expect to face additional generic competition in the future. Generic competition of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.Upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for our products, or upon the “at-risk” launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a generic competitor of a generic version of our products, we can lose a significant portion of sales of that product in a very short period, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.Products representing a significant amount of our revenue are not protected by patent or data exclusivity rights or are nearing the end of their exclusivity period.A significant number of the products we sell have no meaningful exclusivity protection via patent or data exclusivity rights or are protected by patents that will be expiring in the near future. These products represent a significant amount of our revenues. Without exclusivity protection, competitors face fewer barriers in introducing competing products. The introduction of competing products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.Acquisition-related RisksWe have grown at a very rapid pace. Our inability to properly manage or support this growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.We have grown very rapidly over the past few years as a result of our acquisitions. This growth has put significant demands on our processes, systems and people. We have made and expect to make further investments in additional personnel, systems and internal control processes to help manage our growth. If we are unable to successfully manage and support our rapid growth and the challenges and difficulties associated with managing a larger, more complex business, this could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, and the market value of our common stock could decline.We may be unable to identify, acquire, close or integrate acquisition targets successfully.Part of our business strategy includes acquiring and integrating complementary businesses, products, technologies or other assets, and forming strategic alliances, joint ventures and other business combinations, to help drive future growth. We may also in-license new products or compounds. Acquisitions or similar arrangements may be complex, time consuming and expensive. We may not consummate some negotiations for acquisitions or other arrangements, which could result in significant diversion of management and other employee time, as well as substantial out-of-pocket costs. In addition, there are a number of risks and uncertainties relating to our closing transactions. If such transactions are not completed for any reason, we will be subject to several risks, including the following: (i) the market price of our common shares may reflect a market assumption that such transactions will occur, and a failure to complete such transactions could result in a negative perception by the market of us generally and a 12decline in the market price of our common shares; and (ii) many costs relating to the such transactions may be payable by us whether or not such transactions are completed.If an acquisition is consummated (such as our recent acquisition of Medicis), the integration of the acquired business, product or other assets into our company may also be complex and time-consuming and, if such businesses, products and assets are not successfully integrated, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits, cost-savings or growth opportunities. Potential difficulties that may be encountered in the integration process include the following:•integrating personnel, operations and systems, while maintaining focus on selling and promoting existing and newly-acquired products;•coordinating geographically dispersed organizations;•distracting management and employees from operations;•retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; and•managing inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the Company.Furthermore, these acquisitions and other arrangements, even if successfully integrated, may fail to further our business strategy as anticipated, expose us to increased competition or challenges with respect to our products or geographic markets, and expose us to additional liabilities associated with an acquired business, product, technology or other asset or arrangement. Any one of these challenges or risks could impair our ability to realize any benefit from our acquisition or arrangement after we have expended resources on them.Tax-related RisksOur effective tax rates may increase.We have operations in various countries that have differing tax laws and rates. Our tax reporting is supported by current domestic tax laws in the countries in which we operate and the application of tax treaties between the various countries in which we operate. Our income tax reporting will be, and the historic tax reporting of each of Valeant and Biovail is, subject to audit by domestic and foreign authorities. Our effective tax rate may change from year to year based on changes in the mix of activities and income earned among the different jurisdictions in which we operate; changes in tax laws in these jurisdictions; changes in the tax treaties between various countries in which we operate; changes in our eligibility for benefits under those tax treaties; and changes in the estimated values of deferred tax assets and liabilities. Such changes could result in a substantial increase in the effective tax rate on all or a portion of our income.Our provision for income taxes is based on certain estimates and assumptions made by management. Our consolidated income tax rate is affected by the amount of net income earned in our various operating jurisdictions, the availability of benefits under tax treaties, and the rates of taxes payable in respect of that income. We enter into many transactions and arrangements in the ordinary course of business in respect of which the tax treatment is not entirely certain. We therefore make estimates and judgments based on our knowledge and understanding of applicable tax laws and tax treaties, and the application of those tax laws and tax treaties to our business, in determining our consolidated tax provision. For example, certain countries could seek to tax a greater share of income than will be provided for by us. The final outcome of any audits by taxation authorities may differ from the estimates and assumptions that we may use in determining our consolidated tax provisions and accruals. This could result in a material adverse effect on our consolidated income tax provision, financial condition and the net income for the period in which such determinations are made.Our deferred tax liabilities, deferred tax assets and any related valuation allowances are affected by events and transactions arising in the ordinary course of business, acquisitions of assets and businesses, and non-recurring items. The assessment of the appropriate amount of a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets is dependent upon several factors, including estimates of the realization of deferred income tax assets, which realization will be primarily based on forecasts of future taxable income. Significant judgment is applied to determine the appropriate amount of valuation allowance to record. Changes in the amount of any valuation allowance required could materially increase or decrease our provision for income taxes in a given period.Debt-related RisksWe have incurred significant indebtedness, which indebtedness may restrict the manner in which we conduct business and limit our ability to implement elements of our growth strategy. We have incurred significant indebtedness, primarily in connection with our acquisitions (including our acquisition of Medicis). We may also incur additional long-term debt and working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs which, 13subject to certain restrictions under our indebtedness, would increase our total debt. This indebtedness may restrict the manner in which we conduct business and limit our ability to implement elements of our growth strategy, including with respect to:•limitations on our ability to obtain additional debt financing on favorable terms or at all;•instances in which we are unable to meet the financial covenants contained in our debt agreements or to generate cash sufficient to make required debt payments, which circumstances would have the potential of resulting in the acceleration of the maturity of some or all of our outstanding indebtedness;•the allocation of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thus reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes;•requiring us to issue debt or equity securities or to sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, to meet payment obligations;•compromising our flexibility to plan for, or react to, competitive challenges in our business;•the possibility that we are put at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors that do not have as much debt as us, and competitors that may be in a more favorable position to access additional capital resources; and•limitations on our ability to execute business development activities to support our strategies.In January 2012, Moody’s Investor Services (“Moody’s”) downgraded our senior secured debt rating from Baa3 to Ba1. At the same time, Moody’s reaffirmed our Corporate Family rating (Ba3) and our senior unsecured debt rating (B1). On September 5, 2012, following the announcement of our planned acquisition of Medicis, Standard & Poor’s reaffirmed our Corporate Family rating (BB) and our senior unsecured debt rating (BB-). On September 13, 2012, Moody’s reaffirmed our Corporate Family rating (Ba3) and our senior unsecured debt rating (B1). Increased debt levels could result in further ratings pressure. A further downgrade would increase our cost of borrowing and may negatively affect our ability to raise additional debt capital.To service our debt, we will be required to generate a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and any failure to meet our debt service obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.We have a significant amount of indebtedness. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations will depend principally upon our future operating performance. As a result, prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, will affect our ability to make payments on our debt. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. Certain non-guarantor subsidiaries include non-U.S. subsidiaries that may be prohibited by law or other regulations from distributing funds to us and/or we may be subject to payment of repatriation taxes and withholdings. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries or receive cash via cash repatriation strategies for services rendered and intellectual property, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness.We are exposed to risks related to interest rates.Our Credit Facility bears interest based on U.S. dollar London Interbank Offering Rates, or U.S. Prime Rate, or Federal Funds effective rate. Thus, a change in the short-term interest rate environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. As of December 31, 2012, we do not have any outstanding interest rate swap contracts.Risks related to the International Scope of our Business14Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to risks arising from the international scope of our operations.We conduct a significant portion of our business outside the U.S. and Canada and, in light of our growth strategy, we anticipate continuing to expand our operations into new countries, including emerging markets. We sell our pharmaceutical products in many countries around the world. All of our foreign operations are subject to risks inherent in conducting business abroad, including, among other things:•difficulties in coordinating and managing foreign operations, including ensuring that foreign operations comply with foreign laws as well as U.S. laws applicable to U.S. companies with foreign operations, such as export laws and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA; •price and currency exchange controls;•credit market uncertainty;•political and economic instability;•compliance with multiple regulatory regimes;•differing degrees of protection for intellectual property;•unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements, including quality standards and other certification requirements;•new export license requirements;•adverse changes in tariff and trade protection measures;•differing labor regulations;•potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws;•restrictive governmental actions;•possible nationalization or expropriation;•restrictions on the repatriation of funds;•difficulties with licensees, contract counterparties, or other commercial partners; and•differing local product preferences and product requirements.Any of these factors, or any other international factors, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Due to the large portion of our business conducted in currency other than U.S. dollars, we have significant foreign currency risk.We face foreign currency exposure on the translation into U.S. dollars of the financial results of our operations in Poland and other Eastern European countries, Canada, Australia, Latin America and Southeast Asia. Where possible, we manage foreign currency risk by managing same currency revenue in relation to same currency expenses. As a result, both favorable and unfavorable foreign currency impacts to our foreign currency-denominated operating expenses are mitigated to a certain extent by the natural, opposite impact on our foreign currency-denominated revenue. In addition, the repurchase of principal under our U.S. dollar denominated debt may result in foreign exchange gains or losses for Canadian income tax purposes. One half of any foreign exchange gains or losses will be included in our Canadian taxable income. Any foreign exchange gain will result in a corresponding reduction in our available Canadian Non-Capital Losses, Scientific Research and Experimental Development Pool, and/or Investment Tax Credit carryforward balances. The general business and economic conditions in the U.S., Canada, Central and Eastern Europe, Australia, Latin America and other countries in which we conduct business could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and capital resources, revenues and operating results, which could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.We may be impacted by general economic conditions and factors over which we have no control, such as changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency rates, lack of liquidity in certain markets and volatility in capital markets. Similarly, adverse economic conditions impacting our customers or uncertainty about global economic conditions could cause purchases of our products to decline, which would adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Moreover, our projected revenues and operating results are based on assumptions concerning certain levels of customer spending. Any failure to attain our projected 15revenues and operating results as a result of adverse economic or market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.Employment-related RisksWe must continue to retain, motivate and recruit executives and other key employees, and failure to do so could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.We must continue to retain, motivate and recruit executives, including our Chief Executive Officer, J. Michael Pearson, and other key employees. A failure by us to retain and motivate executives and other key employees could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.Risks related to Legal Proceedings We may become involved in infringement actions which are uncertain, costly and time-consuming and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.The pharmaceutical industry historically has generated substantial litigation concerning the manufacture, use and sale of products and we expect this litigation activity to continue. As a result, we expect that patents related to our products will be routinely challenged, and our patents may not be upheld. In order to protect or enforce patent rights, we may initiate litigation against third parties. If we are not successful in defending an attack on our patents and maintaining exclusive rights to market one or more of our products still under patent protection, we could lose a significant portion of sales in a very short period. We may also become subject to infringement claims by third parties and may have to defend against charges that we violated patents or the proprietary rights of third parties. If we infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could lose our right to develop, manufacture or sell products, including our generic products, or could be required to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. The outcomes of infringement action are uncertain and infringement actions are costly and divert technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities.If our products cause, or are alleged to cause, serious or widespread personal injury, we may have to withdraw those products from the market and/or incur significant costs, including payment of substantial sums in damages, and we may be subject to exposure relating to product liability claims.We face an inherent business risk of exposure to significant product liability and other claims in the event that the use of our products caused, or is alleged to have caused, adverse effects. Furthermore, our products may cause, or may appear to have caused, adverse side effects (including death) or potentially dangerous drug interactions that we may not learn about or understand fully until the drug has been administered to patients for some time. The withdrawal of a product following complaints and/or incurring significant costs, including the requirement to pay substantial damages in personal injury cases or product liability cases, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Our product liability insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover our claims and we may not be able to obtain sufficient coverage at a reasonable cost in the future.We are involved in various legal proceedings that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.We are involved in several legal proceedings. Defending against claims and any unfavorable legal decisions, settlements or orders could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.Regulatory RisksObtaining necessary government approvals is time consuming and not assured.The FDA and Health Canada approval must be obtained in the U.S. and Canada, respectively, and approval must be obtained from comparable agencies in other countries, prior to marketing or manufacturing new pharmaceutical products for use by humans. Obtaining FDA, Health Canada and other regulatory approval for new products and manufacturing processes can take a number of years and involves the expenditure of substantial resources. Even if such products appear promising in large-scale Phase 3 clinical trials, regulatory approval may not be achieved and no assurance can be given that we will obtain approval in the U.S., Canada or any other country. Nor can any assurance be given that if such approval is secured, the approved labeling will not have significant labeling limitations, including limitations on the indications for which we can market a product, or require onerous risk management programs.16Our marketed drugs will be subject to ongoing regulatory review.Following initial regulatory approval of any drugs we or our partners may develop, we will be subject to continuing regulatory review by the FDA, the Health Canada and other regulatory authorities in countries where our products are marketed or intended to be marketed, including the review of adverse drug events and clinical results that are reported after product candidates become commercially available. The manufacturing, labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, promotion, reporting and recordkeeping related to the product will also be subject to extensive ongoing regulatory requirements. If we fail to comply with U.S. and Canadian regulatory requirements and those in other countries where our products are sold, we could lose our marketing approvals or be subject to fines or other sanctions. In addition, incidents of adverse drug reactions, unintended side effects or misuse relating to our products could result in additional regulatory controls or restrictions, or even lead to withdrawal of a product from the market. As a condition to granting marketing approval of a product, the FDA and Health Canada may require a company to conduct additional clinical trials, the results of which could result in the subsequent loss of marketing approval, changes in product labeling or new or increased concerns about side effects or efficacy of a product.Our marketing, promotional and pricing practices, as well as the manner in which sales forces interact with purchasers, prescribers and patients, are subject to extensive regulation and any material failure to comply could result in significant sanctions against us.The marketing, promotional, and pricing practices of pharmaceutical companies, as well as the manner in which companies, in-house or third-party sales forces interact with purchasers, prescribers, and patients, are subject to extensive regulation, enforcement of which may result in the imposition of civil and/or criminal penalties, injunctions, and/or limitations on marketing practice for our products. Many companies, including us and Medicis, have been the subject of claims related to these practices asserted by federal authorities. These claims have resulted in fines and other consequences. We are now operating under a Corporate Integrity Agreement (“CIA”) that requires us to maintain a comprehensive compliance program governing our sales, marketing and government pricing and contracting functions. Material failures to comply with the CIA could result in significant sanctions against us, including monetary penalties and exclusion from federal health care programs. Companies may not promote drugs for “off-label” uses - that is, uses that are not described in the product's labeling and that differ from those approved by the FDA, Health Canada or other applicable regulatory agencies. A company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions. In addition, management's attention could be diverted from our business operations and our reputation could be damaged.We will not be able to commercialize our pipeline products if preclinical studies do not produce successful results or if clinical trials do not demonstrate safety and efficacy in humans.We and our development partners, as applicable, conduct extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy in humans of our pipeline products in order to obtain regulatory approval for the sale of our pipeline products. Preclinical studies and clinical trials are expensive, can take many years and have uncertain outcomes.For certain of our products, we depend on reimbursement from third party payors and a reduction in the extent of reimbursement could reduce our product sales and revenue. Sales of certain of our products are dependent, in part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations and our continued participation in such programs. Changes in government regulations or private third-party payors’ reimbursement policies may reduce reimbursement for our products and adversely affect our future results. Failure to be included in formularies developed by managed care organizations and other organizations may negatively impact the utilization of our products, which could harm our market share and negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Managed care organizations and other third-party payors try to negotiate the pricing of medical services and products to control their costs. Managed care organizations and pharmacy benefit managers typically develop formularies to reduce their cost for medications. Formularies can be based on the prices and therapeutic benefits of the available products. Due to their lower costs, generic products are often favored. The breadth of the products covered by formularies varies considerably from one managed care organization to another, and many formularies include alternative and competitive products for treatment of particular medical conditions. Failure to be included in such formularies or to achieve favorable formulary status may negatively impact the utilization of our products. If our products are not included within an adequate number of formularies or adequate reimbursement levels are not provided, or if those policies increasingly favor generic products, our market share and gross margins could be harmed, as could our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 17Manufacturing and Supply RisksIf we or our third-party manufacturers are unable to manufacture our products or the manufacturing process is interrupted due to failure to comply with regulations or for other reasons, the interruption of the manufacture of our products could adversely affect our business. Other manufacturing and supply difficulties or delays may also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.Our manufacturing facilities and those of our contract manufacturers must be inspected and found to be in full compliance with current good manufacturing practices (“cGMP”) or similar standards before approval for marketing. Our failure or that of our contract manufacturers to comply with cGMP regulations or similar regulations outside of the U.S. can result in enforcement action by the FDA or its foreign counterparts, including, but not limited to, warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil or criminal penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production or importation, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval for approved or in-market products, refusal of the government to renew marketing applications or approve pending applications or supplements, suspension of ongoing clinical trials, imposition of new manufacturing requirements, closure of facilities and criminal prosecution.Our manufacturing and other processes use complicated and sophisticated equipment, which sometimes requires a significant amount of time to obtain and install. Manufacturing complexity, testing requirements and safety and security processes combine to increase the overall difficulty of manufacturing these products and resolving manufacturing problems that we may encounter. Although we endeavor to properly maintain our equipment, including through on-site quality control and experienced manufacturing supervision, and have key spare parts on hand, our business could suffer if certain manufacturing or other equipment, or all or a portion of our facilities, were to become inoperable for a period of time. This could occur for various reasons, including catastrophic events, such as hurricanes, earthquakes or other natural disasters, explosions, environmental accidents, pandemics, quarantine, equipment failures or delays in obtaining components or replacements, construction delays or defects and other events, both within and outside of our control. We could experience substantial production delays in the event of any such occurrence until we build or locate replacement equipment or a replacement facility, as applicable, and seek to obtain necessary regulatory approvals for such replacement. Any interruption in our manufacture of products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.Our dependence upon others to manufacture our products may adversely affect our profit margins and our ability to develop and obtain approval for our products on a timely and competitive basis, if at all. In addition, delays or difficulties by us or with our contract manufacturers in producing, packaging, or distributing our products could adversely affect the sales of our current products or introduction of other products.The supply of our products to our customers is subject to and dependent upon the use of transportation services. Disruption of transportation services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.If we are unable to obtain components or raw materials, or products supplied by third parties, our ability to manufacture and deliver our products to the market would be impeded, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.Some components and raw materials used in our manufactured products, and some products sold by us, are currently available only from one or a limited number of domestic or foreign suppliers. In the event an existing supplier becomes unavailable through business interruption or financial insolvency or loses its regulatory status as an approved source or we are unable to renew current supply agreements when such agreements expire and we do not have a second supplier, we may be unable to obtain the required components, raw materials or products on a timely basis or at commercially reasonable prices. A prolonged interruption in the supply of a single-sourced raw material, including the active pharmaceutical ingredient, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.Commercialization and Distribution RisksOur approved products may not achieve or maintain expected levels of market acceptance.Even if we are able to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals for our new pharmaceutical products, generic or branded, the success of these products is dependent upon achieving and maintaining market acceptance. Commercializing products is time consuming, expensive and unpredictable. There can be no assurance that we will be able to, either by ourselves or in collaboration with our partners or through our licensees, successfully commercialize new products or gain market acceptance for such products. New product candidates that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or may have only limited or no commercial success. Levels of market acceptance for our new products could be impacted by several factors, many of which are not within our control, including but not limited to the:18•safety, efficacy, convenience and cost-effectiveness of our products compared to products of our competitors;•scope of approved uses and marketing approval;•timing of market approvals and market entry;•availability of alternative products from our competitors;•acceptance of the price of our products; and•ability to market our products effectively at the retail level or in the appropriate setting of care.Further, the discovery of significant problems with a product similar to one of our products that implicate (or are perceived to implicate) an entire class of products could have an adverse effect on sales of the affected products. Accordingly, new data about our products, or products similar to our products, could negatively impact demand for our products due to real or perceived side effects or uncertainty regarding efficacy and, in some cases, could result in product withdrawal.Our business may be impacted by seasonality, which may cause our operating results and financial condition to fluctuate.Demand for certain of our products may be impacted by seasonality. In particular, demand for certain of our dermatology products tends to increase during the third quarter “back to school” period. In addition, sales in the fourth quarter tend to be higher based on the purchasing patterns of our customer base. This seasonality may cause our operating results to fluctuate. Furthermore, there are no assurances that these historical trends will continue in the future. We have entered into distribution agreements with other companies to distribute certain of our products at supply prices based on net sales. Declines in the pricing and/or volume, over which we have no or limited control, of such products, and therefore the amounts paid to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.Certain of our generic products and certain of our other products are the subject of various agreements, pursuant to which we manufacture and sell products to other companies, which distribute such products at a supply price typically based on net sales. Our ability to control pricing and volume of these products is limited and, in some cases, these companies make all distribution and pricing decisions independently of us. If the pricing or volume of such products declines, our revenues would be adversely impacted which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.Risks related to Specific Legislation and RegulationsWe are subject to various laws and regulations, including “fraud and abuse” laws, anti-bribery laws, environmental laws and privacy and security regulations, and a failure to comply with such laws and regulations or prevail in any litigation related to noncompliance could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have faced lawsuits and investigations pertaining to violations of health care “fraud and abuse” laws, such as the federal False Claims Act, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and other state and federal laws and regulations. We also face increasingly strict data privacy and security laws in the U.S. and in other countries, the violation of which could result in fines and other sanctions. The United States Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General recommends and, increasingly states, require pharmaceutical companies to have comprehensive compliance programs and to disclose certain payments made to healthcare providers or funds spent on marketing and promotion of drug products. While we have developed corporate compliance programs based on what we believe to be current best practices, we cannot assure you that we or our employees or agents are or will be in compliance with all applicable federal, state or foreign regulations and laws. If we are in violation of any of these requirements or any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant fines, exclusion from federal healthcare programs or other sanctions.The FCPA and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices or may require us to interact with doctors and hospitals, some of which may be state controlled, in a manner that is different than in the U.S. and Canada. We cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and 19result in criminal or civil penalties or remedial measures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.We are subject to laws and regulations concerning the environment, safety matters, regulation of chemicals and product safety in the countries where we manufacture and sell our products or otherwise operate our business. These requirements include regulation of the handling, manufacture, transportation, use and disposal of materials, including the discharge of pollutants into the environment. In the normal course of our business, hazardous substances may be released into the environment, which could cause environmental or property damage or personal injuries, and which could subject us to remediation obligations regarding contaminated soil and groundwater or potential liability for damage claims. Under certain laws, we may be required to remediate contamination at certain of our properties regardless of whether the contamination was caused by us or by previous occupants of the property or by others. In recent years, the operations of all companies have become subject to increasingly stringent legislation and regulation related to occupational safety and health, product registration and environmental protection. Such legislation and regulations are complex and constantly changing, and future changes in laws or regulations may require us to install additional controls for certain of our emission sources, to undertake changes in our manufacturing processes or to remediate soil or groundwater contamination at facilities where such cleanup is not currently required.We are also subject to various privacy and security regulations, including but not limited to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009 (as amended, “HIPAA”). HIPAA mandates, among other things, the adoption of uniform standards for the electronic exchange of information in common health care transactions (e.g., health care claims information and plan eligibility, referral certification and authorization, claims status, plan enrollment, coordination of benefits and related information), as well as standards relating to the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information, which require the adoption of administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect such information. In addition, many states have enacted comparable laws addressing the privacy and security of health information, some of which are more stringent than HIPAA. Failure to comply with these laws can result in the imposition of significant civil and criminal penalties. The costs of compliance with these laws and the potential liability associated with the failure to comply with these laws could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system may affect our ability to sell our products profitably and could adversely affect our business.In the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (the “Health Care Reform Act”) may affect the operational results of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including the Company and other healthcare related industries, by imposing on them additional costs. Effective January 1, 2010, the Health Care Reform Act increased the minimum Medicaid drug rebates for pharmaceutical companies, expanded the 340B drug discount program, and made changes to affect the Medicare Part D coverage gap, or "donut hole". The law also revised the definition of "average manufacturer price" for reporting purposes, which has the potential to affect the amount of our Medicaid drug rebates to states. Beginning in 2011, the law imposed a significant annual fee on companies that manufacture or import branded prescription drug products.The Health Care Reform Act also added substantial new provisions affecting compliance, some of which may require us to modify our business practices with health care practitioners. Pharmaceutical manufacturers are required in 2013 to comply with the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which was passed as part of the Act and requires pharmaceutical companies to monitor and report payments, gifts, the provision of samples and other remuneration made to physicians and other health care professionals and health care organizations.We are unable to predict the future course of federal or state health care legislation. A variety of federal and state agencies are in the process of implementing the Health Care Reform Act, including through the issuance of rules, regulations or guidance that materially affect our business. The risk of our being found in violation of these rules and regulations is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by applicable regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. The Health Care Reform Act and further changes to health care laws or regulatory framework that reduce our revenues or increase our costs could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows, and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Other RisksOur operating results and financial condition may fluctuate.Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate from quarter to quarter for a number of reasons. The following events or occurrences, among others, could cause fluctuations in our financial performance from period to period: 20•development and launch of new competitive products;•the timing and receipt of FDA approvals or lack of approvals;•costs related to business development transactions;•changes in the amount we spend to promote our products;•delays between our expenditures to acquire new products, technologies or businesses and the generation of revenues from those acquired products, technologies or businesses;•changes in treatment practices of physicians that currently prescribe certain of our products;•increases in the cost of raw materials used to manufacture our products; •manufacturing and supply interruptions;•our responses to price competition;•expenditures as a result of legal actions, including the defense of our patents and other intellectual property;•market acceptance of our products;•the timing of wholesaler and distributor purchases; •increases in insurance rates for existing products and the cost of insurance for new products;•general economic and industry conditions; and•changes in seasonality of demand for certain of our products.As a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results from operations, or any other similar period-to-period comparisons, should not be construed as reliable indicators of our future performance. The above factors may cause our operating results to fluctuate and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In any quarterly period, our results may be below the expectations of market analysts and investors, which would likely cause the trading price of our common stock to decrease.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.21