Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company’s results from continuing operations and its financial position could be adversely affected in the future by known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which the Company is unable to predict or control. Some of these factors are described in more detail in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the Company’s other filings with the SEC. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems immaterial may also impair its business operations. Should one or more of any of these risks or uncertainties materialize, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The Company’s results of operations are dependent on the price of raw materials, particularly steel and aluminum. High raw material costs or cost increases could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. Volatility in raw material and other prices has become an increasing factor in the general economy, and the Company continues to seek ways to mitigate its impact. For example, the Company experienced significant volatility in steel and aluminum prices from 2009 through 2011. To the extent permitted by competition, the Company seeks to mitigate the adverse impact of rising costs of raw materials through product price increases. However, the Company’s ability to implement price increases is dependent on market conditions, economic factors, raw material costs and availability, competitive factors, operating costs and other factors, some of which are beyond the Company’s control. Further, the benefits of any implemented price increases may be delayed due to manufacturing lead times and the terms of existing contracts. If the Company is not able to successfully mitigate the effects of rising raw materials costs, the Company’s results of operations, business and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. The global economic recession has resulted in weaker demand for the Company’s products and may create challenges for us that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The global economic recession has affected our domestic and international markets, and we continue to experience weaker demand for our products. Management believes the weak global economic conditions in 2012 and beyond will result in decreased customer demand across all customer segments, particularly in construction, 5 Table of Contents travel and recreational industries. As a result, customers may reduce their purchases of the Company’s products or delay the timing of their purchases from the Company, either of which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, business and financial condition. Continuing disruptions in the financial markets or other factors could affect the Company’s liquidity. World credit markets continue to experience significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions. These factors have materially impacted debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and in certain cases have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. Continued uncertainty in the credit markets may negatively impact the Company’s ability to access additional debt financing or to refinance existing indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. The credit market disruptions could impair the Company’s ability to fund operations, limit the Company’s ability to expand the business or increase interest expense, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial results. Terrorist attacks or international hostilities may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 caused a significant slowdown in the tourism industry. Additional terrorist attacks or fear of such attacks would negatively affect the tourism industry and, due to the nature of our business, the Company. The Company’s financial resources could be materially adversely affected by any further terrorist attacks or other international hostilities. The global financial crisis may have an impact on the Company’s business and financial condition in ways that management cannot predict. The continuing credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system has had and may continue to have an impact on the Company’s business and financial condition. For example, our ability to access the capital and credit markets may be severely restricted, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. The financial crisis and economic downturn have also resulted in broadly lower investment asset returns and values, including in the defined benefit pension plans that we sponsor for eligible employees and retirees. Our funding obligations for the U.S. Plan (defined below), which have been frozen for future benefit accruals, are governed by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (“ERISA”). Our funding obligations for the Canadian Plan (defined below), which have been frozen for future benefit accruals, are governed by the Pension Benefits Act. Estimates of pension plan funding requirements can vary materially from actual funding requirements because the estimates are based on various assumptions concerning factors outside our control, including, among other things, the market performance of assets, statutory requirements, and demographic data for participants. Due primarily to the decline in the investment markets in 2008, coupled with a decline in long term interest rates, we currently expect our contributions to these plans to significantly increase for 2012 and thereafter, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. If the Company experiences losses of senior management personnel and other key employees, operating results could be adversely affected. We are dependent on the experience and industry knowledge of our officers and other key employees to execute our business plans. If we experience a substantial turnover in our leadership and other key employees, our performance could be materially adversely impacted. The mailbox industry is subject to extensive regulation by the USPS, and new regulation might negatively impact the Company’s ability to continue to sell mailboxes or increase its operating costs. A material portion of the Company’s mailbox sales come from products, including the Horizontal 4c and Horizontal 4b+ mailboxes, which require continued USPS approval. If the USPS were to withdraw approval for these products or change the requirements for approval, it may materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, business and financial condition. A change in the USPS’s requirements might also materially increase the Company’s operating costs. 6 Table of Contents The Company’s future success will depend, in large part, upon its ability to successfully introduce new products. The Company believes that its future success will depend, in large part, upon its ability to develop, manufacture and successfully introduce new products. The Company’s ability to successfully develop, introduce and sell new products depends upon a variety of factors, including new product selection, timely and efficient completion of product design and development, timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes and effective sales and marketing initiatives related to the new products. Given the Company’s current financial position, the Company may not have enough capital on hand to develop, manufacture and successfully introduce new products, and a failure to do so or to obtain the necessary capital in order to do so would have a material adverse effect on the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 