ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Company and Our Business There is doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have experienced significant operating losses in the current and prior years. At March 31, 2008, our principal sources of liquidity were cash and cash equivalents of $2.6 million. We do not expect that our cash on hand and cash generated by operations will be sufficient to fund our operating and capital needs beyond the next three months. As a result of our limited cash resources and history of operating losses, our auditors have expressed in their report on our consolidated financial statements that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We presently have no further commitments for financing by affiliates of our Chairman Carl Berg or any other source. If we are unable to obtain financing from affiliates of Mr. Berg or others on terms acceptable to us, or at all, we may not be able to fulfill our customer commitments and/or be forced to cease all operations and liquidate our assets. Our limited financial resources could materially affect our business, our ability to commercially exploit our technology and our ability to respond to unanticipated development, and could place us at a disadvantage to our competitor. Currently, we do not have sufficient capital resources or cash flow from operations, to generate the cash flows required to meet our operating and capital needs. Our limited financial resources could materially affect our ability, and the pace at which, we are able to commercially exploit our technologies and products. For example, it could: · limit the research and development resources we are able to commit to the further development of our technology and the development of products that can be commercially exploited in our marketplace; · limit the sales and marketing resources that we are able to commit to the marketing of our technology; · have an adverse impact on our ability to attract top-tier companies as our technology and marketing partners; · have an adverse impact on our ability to employ and retain qualified employees with the skills and expertise necessary to implement our business plan; · make us more vulnerable to failing to achieve our forecasted results, economic downturns, adverse industry conditions or catastrophic external events; · limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing business and economic conditions; and · place us at a disadvantage to our competitors that have greater financial resources than we have. We have a history of losses and an accumulated deficit and may never achieve or sustain significant revenues or profitability. We have incurred operating losses each year since our inception in 1989 and had an accumulated deficit of $536.3 million as of March 31, 2008. We have sustained recurring losses related primarily to the research and development and marketing of our products combined with the lack of sufficient sales to provide for these needs. We anticipate that we will continue to incur operating losses and negative cash flows over the next fiscal year. We may never achieve or sustain sufficient revenues or profitability in the future. We reported a net loss available to common stockholders of $19.6 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008. We have reported a net loss available to common stockholders of $22.4 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007 and a net loss available to common stockholders of $32.9 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006. If we cannot achieve a competitive cost structure, achieve profitability and access the capital markets on acceptable 13 terms, we will be unable to fund our obligations and sustain our operations and may be required to liquidate our assets. Our working capital requirements may increase beyond those currently anticipated. We have planned for an increase in sales and, if we experience sales in excess of our plan, our working capital needs and capital expenditures would likely increase from that currently anticipated. In particular, our recently announced contract with The Tanfield Group, PLC will require us to expend additional amounts for inventory and capital equipment, in advance of any revenues. Our ability to meet this additional customer demand would depend on our ability to arrange for additional equity or debt financing since it is likely that cash flow from sales will lag behind these increased working capital requirements. Our indebtedness and other obligations are substantial and could materially affect our business and our ability to incur additional debt to fund future needs. We have and will continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness and other obligations. As of March 31, 2008, we had approximately $75.1 million of total consolidated indebtedness. Included in this amount are $34.6 million of loans outstanding, net of discount, to an affiliate of Carl Berg, $21.5 million of accumulated interest associated with those loans and $19.0 million of principal and interest outstanding with a third party finance company. We also have an upcoming obligation to redeem our outstanding shares of Series C-1 Convertible Preferred Stock and Series C-2 Convertible Preferred Stock held by affiliates of Carl Berg for up to $8,610,000, plus accrued dividends which, as of March 31, 2008, were $431,000. Our substantial indebtedness and other obligations could negatively impact our current and future operations. For example, it could: · limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes; · make us more vulnerable to failure to achieve our forecasted results, economic downturns, adverse industry conditions or catastrophic external events, limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing business and economic conditions; · place us at a disadvantage to our competitors that have relatively less debt than we have; and/or · cause us to cease business and liquidate our assets and operations. All of our assets are pledged as collateral under various loan agreements with Mr. Berg or related entities. If we fail to meet our obligations pursuant to these loan agreements, these lenders may declare all amounts borrowed from them, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon, to be due and payable. If this were to occur, we would not have the financial resources to repay our debt and these lenders could proceed against our assets. Our financial results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our product revenue, operating expenses and quarterly operating results have varied in the past and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result you should not rely on our operating results during any particular quarter as an indication of our future performance in any quarterly period or fiscal year. These factors include, among others: · timing of orders from our customers and the possibility that customers may change their order requirements with little or no notice to us; · rate of adoption of our energy storage systems; · deferral of customer orders in anticipation of new products from us or other providers of batteries and related technologies; · timing of deferred revenue components associated with large orders; 14 · new product releases, licensing or pricing decisions by our competitors; · commodity and raw materials component prices; · lack of order backlog; · loss of a significant customer or distributor; · impact of changes to our product distribution strategy and pricing policies; · changes in the mix of domestic and international sales; · rate of growth of the markets for our products; and · other risks described below. The market for our products is evolving and it is difficult to predict its potential size or future growth rate. Many of the organizations that may purchase our products have invested substantial resources in their existing power systems and, as a result, have been reluctant or slow to adopt a new approach, particularly during a period of reduced capital expenditures. Moreover, our current products are alternatives to existing systems and may never be accepted by our customers or may be made obsolete by other advances in related technologies. Significant portions of our expenses are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to decreases in revenue. Therefore, if our revenue is below our expectations, our operating results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected. In addition, we may change our prices, modify our distribution strategy and policies, accelerate our investment in research and development, sales or marketing efforts in response to competitive pressures or to pursue new market opportunities. Any one of these activities may further limit our ability to adjust spending in response to revenue fluctuations. We use forecasted revenue to establish our expense budget. Because most of our expenses are fixed in the short term or incurred in advance of anticipated revenue, any shortfall in revenue may result in significant losses. We have encountered problems in our production process that have limited our ability at times to produce sufficient batteries to meet the demands of our customers. If these issues recur and we are unable to timely resolve these problems, our inability to produce batteries will have a material adverse impact on our ability to grow revenues and maintain our customer base. Problems in our production processes could limit our ability to produce a sufficient number of batteries to meet the demands of our customers. Production issues likely will have a negative impact on gross margins as manufacturing yields will suffer. Any inability to timely produce batteries and other products would have a material adverse impact on our ability to grow revenues and maintain our customer base. Our business will be adversely affected if our Saphion technology – based batteries are not commercially accepted. We are researching and developing batteries based upon phosphate chemistry. Our batteries are designed and manufactured as components for other companies and end-user customers. Our success depends on the acceptance of our batteries and the products using our batteries in their markets. Technical issues may arise that may affect the acceptance of our products by our customers. Market acceptance may also depend on a variety of other factors, including educating the target market regarding the benefits of our products. Market acceptance and market share are also affected by the timing of market introduction of competitive products. If we, or our customers, are unable to gain any significant market acceptance for Saphion technology-based batteries, our business will be adversely affected. It is too early to determine if Saphion technology-based batteries will achieve significant market acceptance. If we are unable to develop, manufacture and market products that gain wide customer acceptance, our business will be adversely affected. The process of developing our products is complex and failure to anticipate our customers’ changing needs and to develop products that receive widespread customer acceptance could significantly harm our results of operations. We must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will eventually result in products that the market will accept. After a product is developed, we must be able to manufacture sufficient volumes quickly and at low costs. To accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mix of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed. For example, if we 15 are unable to develop, manufacture and market our EpochTM Energy Storage Systems and gain wide customer acceptance of those systems, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. We depend on a small number of customers for our revenues, and our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed if we were to lose the business of any one of them. To date, our existing purchase orders in commercial quantities are from a limited number of customers. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, Segway Inc., The Tanfield Group, PLC and D&H Distributing Co., Inc. contributed 55%, 12%, and 6%, of our revenues, respectively. We anticipate that sales of our products to a limited number of key customers will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenues. We do not have long-term agreements with any of these customers committing them to purchase any specified amount of our products. As a result, we face the substantial risk that one or more of the following events could occur: · reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from a customer; · development by a customer of other sources of supply; · selection by a customer of devices manufactured by one of our competitors for inclusion in future product generations; · loss of a customer or a disruption in our sales and distribution channels; or · failure of a customer to make timely payment of our invoices. If we were to lose one or more customers, or if we were to lose revenues due to a customer’s inability or refusal to continue to purchase our batteries, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. If our products fail to perform as expected, we could lose existing and future business, and our ability to develop, market and sell our batteries could be harmed. The market perception of our products and related acceptance of the products is highly dependent upon the quality and reliability of the products that we build. Any quality problems attributable to our product lines may substantially impair our revenue prospects. Moreover, quality problems for our product lines could cause us to delay or cease shipments of products or have to recall or field upgrade products, thus adversely affecting our ability to meet revenue or cost targets. In addition, while we seek to limit our liability as a result of product failure or defects through warranty and other limitations, if one of our products fails, a customer could suffer a significant loss and seek to hold us responsible for that loss. Our failure to cost-effectively manufacture our technologically-complex batteries in commercial quantities which satisfy our customers’ product specifications and their expectations for product quality and delivery could damage our customer relationships and result in significant lost business opportunities for us. To be successful, we must cost-effectively manufacture commercial quantities of our technologically-complex batteries that meet our customer specifications for quality and timely delivery. To facilitate commercialization of our products, we will need to further reduce our manufacturing costs, which we intend to do through the effective utilization of manufacturing partners and continuous improvement of our manufacturing and development operations in our wholly owned foreign enterprises in China. We currently manufacture our batteries and assemble our products in China. We are dependent on the performance of our manufacturing partners, as well as our own manufacturing operations to manufacture and deliver our products to our customers. We have experienced production process issues, which have limited our ability to produce a sufficient number of batteries to meet current demand. For example, during the third quarter of fiscal 2008, our anticipated revenue was adversely affected due to the temporary suspension of production and shipments at our China facility in order to implement a component change on a circuit board. If we fail to correct these issues in a manner that allows us to meet customer demand, or 16 if any of our manufacturing partners are unable to manufacture products in commercial quantities on a timely and cost-effective basis, we could lose our customers and adversely impact our ability to attract future customers. In addition to being used in our own product lines, our battery cells are intended to be incorporated into other products. If we do not form effective arrangements with OEMs to commercialize these products, our profitability could be impaired. Our business strategy contemplates that we will be required to rely on assistance from OEMs to gain market acceptance for our products. We therefore will need to identify acceptable OEMs and enter into agreements with them. Once we identify acceptable OEMs and enter into agreements with them, we will need to meet these companies’ requirements by developing and introducing new products and enhanced or modified versions of our existing products on a timely basis. OEMs often require unique configurations or custom designs for batteries, which must be developed and integrated into their product well before the product is launched. This development process not only requires substantial lead-time between the commencement of design efforts for a customized power system and the commencement of volume shipments of the power systems to the customer, but also requires the cooperation and assistance of the OEMs for purposes of determining the requirements for each specific application. We may have technical issues that arise that may affect the acceptance of our product by OEMs. If we are unable to design, develop, and introduce products that meet OEMs’ requirements, we may lose opportunities to enter into additional purchase orders and our reputation may be damaged. As a result, we may not receive adequate assistance from OEMs or pack assemblers to successfully commercialize our products, which could impair our profitability. Failure to implement an effective licensing business strategy will adversely affect our revenue, cash flow and profitability. Our long-term business strategy anticipates achieving significant revenue from the licensing of our intellectual property assets, such as our Saphion technology. We have not entered into any licensing agreements for our Saphion technology. Our future operating results could be adversely affected by a variety of factors including: · our ability to secure and maintain significant licensees of our proprietary technology; · the extent to which our future licensees successfully incorporate our technology into their products; · the acceptance of new or enhanced versions of our technology; · the rate at which our licensees manufacture and distribute their products to OEMs; and · our ability to secure one-time license fees and ongoing royalties for our technology from licensees. Our future success will also depend on our ability to execute our licensing operations simultaneously with our other business activities. If we fail to substantially expand our licensing activities while maintaining our other business activities, our results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. The fact that we depend on a sole supplier or a limited number of suppliers for key raw materials may delay our production of batteries. We depend on a sole supplier or a limited number of suppliers for certain key raw materials used in manufacturing and developing our power systems. We generally purchase raw materials pursuant to purchase orders placed from time to time and have no long-term contracts or other guaranteed supply arrangements with our sole or limited source suppliers. As a result, our suppliers may not be able to meet our requirements relative to specifications and volumes for key raw materials, and we may not be able to locate alternative sources of supply at an acceptable cost. In the past, we have experienced delays in product development due to the delivery of nonconforming raw materials from our suppliers. If in the future we are unable to obtain high quality raw materials in sufficient quantities, on competitive pricing terms and on a timely basis, it may delay battery production, impede our ability to fulfill existing or future purchase orders and harm our reputation and profitability. 17 We have limited experience manufacturing our products in large quantities. Achieving the necessary production levels presents a number of technological and engineering challenges for us. We have limited experience manufacturing our products in high volume. We do not know whether or when we will be able to develop efficient, low-cost manufacturing capability and processes that will enable us to meet the quality, price, engineering, design and product standards or production volumes required to successfully manufacture large quantities of our products. Even if we are successful in developing our manufacturing capability and processes, we do not know whether we will do so in time to meet our product commercialization schedule or to satisfy the requirements of our customers. We expect to sell an increasing portion of our products to, and derive a significant portion of our licensing income from, customers located outside the United States. Foreign government regulations, currency fluctuations and increased costs associated with international sales could make our products and licenses unaffordable in foreign markets, which would reduce our future profitability. We expect that international sales of our product and licenses, as well as licensing royalties, represent a significant portion of our sales potential. International business can be subject to many inherent risks that are difficult or impossible for us to predict or control, including: · changes in foreign government regulations and technical standards, including additional regulation of rechargeable batteries, technology, or the transport of lithium or phosphate, which may reduce or eliminate our ability to sell or license in certain markets; · foreign governments may impose tariffs, quotas, and taxes on our batteries or our import of technology into their countries; · requirements or preferences of foreign nations for domestic products could reduce demand for our batteries and our technology; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar could make our batteries and our technology unaffordable to foreign purchasers and licensees or more expensive compared to those of foreign manufacturers and licensors; · longer payment cycles typically associated with international sales and potential difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, which may reduce the future profitability of foreign sales and royalties; · import and export licensing requirements in Europe and other regions, including China, where we intend to conduct business, which may reduce or eliminate our ability to sell or license in certain markets; and · political and economic instability in countries, including China, where we intend to conduct business, which may reduce the demand for our batteries and our technology or our ability to market our batteries and our technology in those countries. These risks may increase our costs of doing business internationally and reduce our sales and royalties or future profitability. Our business depends on certain key personnel, the loss of whom could weaken our management team, and on attracting and retaining qualified personnel. The growth of our business and our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled management, technical, research and development, manufacturing, sales and marketing and other operating and administrative personnel, particularly those who are familiar with and experienced in the battery industry. If we cannot attract and retain experienced sales and marketing executives, we may not achieve the visibility in the marketplace that we need to obtain purchase orders, which would have the result of lowering our sales and earnings. Our key personnel include all of our executive officers and vice presidents, many of whom have very specialized scientific or operational knowledge regarding one or more of our key products. Such persons are in high demand and often receive competing employment offers from numerous other companies, including larger, more established 18 competitors who have significantly greater financial resources than we do. We do not maintain key-person life insurance on any of our employees. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to attract and retain additional personnel and develop expertise as needed could limit our ability to develop and commercialize our existing and future products. We may need to expand our employee base and operations in order to effectively distribute our products commercially, which may strain our management and resources and could harm our business. To implement our growth strategy successfully, we will have to increase our staff in China, with personnel in manufacturing, engineering, sales, marketing, and product support capabilities, as well as third party and direct distribution channels. However, we face the risk that we may not be able to attract new employees to sufficiently increase our staff or product support capabilities, or that we will not be successful in our sales and marketing efforts. Failure in any of these areas could impair our ability to execute our plans for growth and adversely affect our future profitability. International political events and the threat of ongoing terrorist activities could interrupt manufacturing of our batteries and our products at our OEM facilities or our own facilities and cause us to lose sales and marketing opportunities. The terrorist attacks that took place in the United States on September 11, 2001, along with the U.S. military campaigns against terrorism in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere, and continued violence in the Middle East have created many economic and political uncertainties, some of which may materially harm our business and revenues. International political instability resulting from these events could temporarily or permanently disrupt manufacturing of our batteries and products at our OEM facilities or our own facilities in Asia and elsewhere, and have an immediate adverse impact on our business. Since September 11, 2001, some economic commentators have indicated that spending on capital equipment of the type that use our batteries has been weaker than spending in the economy as a whole, and many of our customers are in industries that also are viewed as under-performing in the overall economy, such as the telecommunications, industrial and utility industries. The long-term effects of these events on our customers, the market for our common stock, the markets for our products, and the U.S. economy as a whole are uncertain. Terrorist activities could temporarily or permanently interrupt our manufacturing, development, sales and marketing activities anywhere in the world. Any delays also could cause us to lose sales and marketing opportunities, as potential customers would find other vendors to meet their needs. The consequences of any additional terrorist attacks, or any expanded armed conflicts are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our markets or our business. If we are sued on a product liability claim, our insurance policies may not be sufficient. Although we maintain general liability insurance and product liability insurance, our insurance may not cover all potential types of product liability claims to which manufacturers are exposed or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our business, including our relationships with current customers and our ability to attract and retain new customers for our products and technology. Our patent applications may not result in issued patents, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to commercially exploit our products. Patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued or are published. Since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries by several months, we cannot be certain that we are the first creator of inventions covered by pending patent applications or the first to file patent applications on these inventions. We also cannot be certain that our pending patent applications will result in issued patents or that any of our issued patents will afford protection against a competitor. In addition, patent applications filed in foreign countries are subject to laws, rules and procedures that differ from those of the United States, and thus we cannot be certain that foreign patent applications related to issued U.S. patents will be issued. Furthermore, if these patent applications issue, some foreign countries provide significantly less effective patent enforcement than in the United States. 19 The status of patents involves complex legal and factual questions and the breadth of claims allowed is uncertain. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that the patent applications that we file will result in patents being issued, or that our patents and any patents that may be issued to us in the near future will afford protection against competitors with similar technology. In addition, patents issued to us may be infringed upon or designed around by others and others may obtain patents that we need to license or design around, either of which would increase costs and may adversely affect our operations. If we cannot protect or enforce our existing intellectual property rights or if our pending patent applications do not result in issued patents, we may lose the advantages of our research and manufacturing systems. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on whether we can protect our existing proprietary technology and manufacturing processes. We have filed a lawsuit against a company in Canada alleging infringement of certain Canadian patents, as described in further detail in “Item 3-Legal Proceedings.” We rely on a combination of patent and trade secret protection, non-disclosure agreements and cross-licensing agreements. These measures may not be adequate to safeguard the proprietary technology underlying our batteries. Employees, consultants, and others who participate in the development of our products may breach their non-disclosure agreements with us, and we may not have adequate remedies in the event of their breaches. Furthermore, our competitors may be able to develop products that are equal or superior to our products without infringing on any of our intellectual property rights. We currently manufacture and export some of our products from China. The legal regime protecting intellectual property rights in China is weak. Because the Chinese legal system in general, and the intellectual property regime in particular, are relatively weak, it is often difficult to enforce intellectual property rights in China. Moreover, there are other countries where effective copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited. Accordingly, we may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights outside of the United States. Intellectual property infringement claims brought against us could be time-consuming and expensive to defend, and if any of our products or processes is found to be infringing, we may not be able to procure licenses to use patents necessary to our business at reasonable terms, if at all. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. For example, we were recently named in a lawsuit which alleges that the Company’s Saphion I cathode material infringes two patents owned by the University of Texas that we describe in further detail in “Item 3-Legal Proceedings.” An adverse decision in this litigation could force us to do one or more of the following: · stop selling, incorporating, or using our products that use the Saphion I cathode material challenged intellectual property; · pay damages for the use of Saphion I cathode material; · obtain a license to sell or use the Saphion I cathode material, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or · redesign those products or manufacturing processes that use the Saphion I cathode material, which may not be economically or technologically feasible. We may become involved in additional litigation and proceedings in the future. Likewise, we may in the future be subject to claims or an inquiry regarding our alleged unauthorized use of a third party’s intellectual property. An adverse outcome in such future litigation could result in similar risks as noted above with respect to the third party’s intellectual property. Whether or not an intellectual property litigation claim is valid, the cost of responding to it, in terms of legal fees and expenses and the diversion of management resources, could be expensive and harm our business. 20 Risks Associated With Doing Business In China Since our products are manufactured in China and we have transferred additional operations to China, we face risks if China loses normal trade relations status with the United States. We manufacture and export our products from China. Our products sold in the United States are currently not subject to U.S. import duties. On September 19, 2000, the United States Senate voted to permanently normalize trade with China, which provides a favorable category of United States import duties. In addition, on December 11, 2001, China was accepted into the World Trade Organization, or WTO, a global international organization that regulates international trade. As a result of opposition to certain policies of the Chinese government and China’s growing trade surpluses with the United States, there has been, and in the future may be, opposition to the extension of Normal Trade Relations, or NTR, status for China. The loss of NTR status for China, changes in current tariff structures or adoption in the United States of other trade policies adverse to China could have an adverse affect on our business. Furthermore, our business may be adversely affected by the diplomatic and political relationships between the United States and China. These influences may adversely affect our ability to operate in China. If the relationship between the United States and China were to materially deteriorate, it could negatively impact our ability to control our operations and relationships in China, enforce any agreements we have with Chinese manufacturers or otherwise deal with any assets or investments we may have in China. Because the Chinese legal system in general, and the intellectual property regime in particular, are relatively weak, we may not be able to enforce intellectual property rights in China and elsewhere. We currently manufacture and export our products from China. The legal regime protecting intellectual property rights in China is weak. Because the Chinese legal system in general, and the intellectual property regime in particular, are relatively weak, it is often difficult to enforce intellectual property rights in China. Enforcing agreements and laws in China is difficult or may be impossible as China does not have a comprehensive system of laws. We are dependent on our agreements with our Chinese manufacturing partners. Enforcement of agreements may be sporadic and implementation and interpretation of laws may be inconsistent. The Chinese judiciary is relatively inexperienced in interpreting agreements and enforcing the laws, leading to a higher than usual degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. Even where adequate law exists in China, it may be impossible to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of such law, or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court of another jurisdiction. The government of China may change or even reverse its policies of promoting private industry and foreign investment, in which case our assets and operations may be at risk. China is a socialist state, which since 1949 has been, and is expected to continue to be, controlled by the Communist Party of China. Our existing and planned operations in China are subject to the general risks of doing business internationally and the specific risks related to the business, economic and political conditions in China, which include the possibility that the central government of China will change or even reverse its policies of promoting private industry and foreign investment in China. Many of the current reforms which support private business in China are unprecedented or experimental. Other political, economic and social factors, such as political changes, changes in the rates of economic growth, unemployment or inflation, or in the disparities of per capita wealth among citizens of China and between regions within China, could also lead to further readjustment of the government’s reform measures. It is not possible to predict whether the Chinese government will continue to be as supportive of private business in China, nor is it possible to predict how future reforms will affect our business. 21 The government of China continues to exercise substantial control over the Chinese economy which could have a negative impact on our business. The government of China has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every section of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. China’s continued commitment to reform and the development of a vital private sector in that country have, to some extent, limited the practical effects of the control currently exercised by the government over individual enterprises. However, the economy continues to be subject to significant government controls, which, if directed towards our business activities, could have a significant adverse impact on us. For example, if the government were to limit the number of foreign personnel who could work in the country, substantially increase taxes on foreign businesses or impose any number of other possible types of limitations on our operations, the impact would be significant. Changes in China’s political and economic policies could harm our business. The economy of China has historically been a planned economy subject to governmental plans and quotas and has, in certain aspects, been transitioning to a more market-oriented economy. Although we believe that the economic reform and the macroeconomic measures adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of China, we cannot predict the future direction of these economic reforms or the effects these measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. In addition, the Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD. These differences include: · economic structure; · level of government involvement in the economy; · level of development; · level of capital reinvestment; · control of foreign exchange; · methods of allocating resources; and · balance of payments position. As a result of these differences, our operations, including our current manufacturing operations in China, may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to the OECD member countries. Business practices in China may entail greater risk and dependence upon the personal relationships of senior management than is common in North America and therefore some of our agreements with other parties in China could be difficult or impossible to enforce. The business structure of China is, in most respects, different from the business culture in Western countries and may present some difficulty for Western investors reviewing contractual relationships among companies in China and evaluating the merits of an investment. Personal relationships among business principals of companies and business entities in China are very significant in the business culture. In some cases, because so much reliance is based upon personal relationships, written contracts among businesses in China may be less detailed and specific than is commonly accepted for similar written agreements in Western countries. In some cases, material terms of an understanding are not contained in the written agreement but exist as oral agreements only. In other cases, the terms of transactions which may involve material amounts of money are not documented at all. In addition, in contrast to Western business practices where a written agreement specifically defines the terms, rights and obligations of the parties in a legally-binding and enforceable manner, the parties to a written agreement in China may view that agreement more as a starting point for an ongoing business relationship which will evolve and require ongoing 22 modification. As a result, written agreements in China may appear to the Western reader to look more like outline agreements that precede a formal written agreement. While these documents may appear incomplete or unenforceable to a Western reader, the parties to the agreement in China may feel that they have a more complete understanding than is apparent to someone who is only reading the written agreement without having attended the negotiations. As a result, contractual arrangements in China may be more difficult to review and understand. Also, despite legal developments in China over the past 20 years, adequate laws, comparable with Western standards, do not exist in all areas and it is unclear how many of our business arrangements would be interpreted or enforced by a court in China. Our ongoing manufacturing and development operations in China are complex and having these remote operations may divert management’s attention, lead to disruptions in operations and delay implementation of our business strategy. We have relocated most of our manufacturing and development operations to China. We may not be able to find or retain suitable employees in China and we may have to train personnel to perform necessary functions for our manufacturing, senior management and development operations. This may divert management’s attention, lead to disruptions in operations and delay implementation of our business strategy, all of which could negatively impact our profitability. Our operations could be materially interrupted, and we may suffer significant loss, in the case of fire, casualty or theft at one of our manufacturing or other facilities. Firefighting and disaster relief or assistance in China is substandard by Western standards. In the event of any material damage to, or loss of, the manufacturing plants where our products are or will be produced due to fire, casualty, theft, severe weather, flood or other similar causes, we would be forced to replace any assets lost in such disaster. Thus our financial position could be materially compromised or we might have to cease doing business. The Company has obtained insurance in China to minimize this risk, but we cannot be sure that such insurance will be sufficient. The system of taxation in China is uncertain and subject to unpredictable change that could affect our profitability. Many tax rules are not published in China and those that are published can be ambiguous and contradictory, leaving a considerable amount of discretion to local tax authorities. China currently offers tax and other preferential incentives to encourage foreign investment. However, the country’s tax regime is undergoing review and there is no assurance that such tax and other incentives will continue to be made available. If we no longer receive such preferential incentives, our business, prospects and results of operations would be adversely affected. It is uncertain whether we will be able to recover value-added taxes imposed by the Chinese taxing authority. China’s turnover tax system consists of value-added tax, or VAT, consumption tax and business tax. Export sales are exempted under VAT rules and an exporter who incurs VAT on purchase or manufacture of goods should be able to claim a refund from Chinese tax authorities. However, due to a reduction in the VAT export refund rate of some goods, exporters might bear part of the VAT they incurred in conjunction with the exported goods. In 2003, changes to the Chinese value-added tax system were announced affecting the recoverability of input VAT beginning January 1, 2004. Our VAT expense will depend on the reaction of both our suppliers and customers. Continued efforts by the Chinese government to increase tax revenues could result in revisions to tax laws or their interpretation, which could increase our VAT and various tax liabilities. 23 Any recurrence of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), avian flu, or other widespread public health problem, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. A renewed outbreak of SARS, avian flu, or another widespread public health problem in China, where we have moved our manufacturing operations, some engineering operations and may move additional operations, could have a negative effect on our operations. Our operations may be impacted by a number of health-related factors, including the following: · quarantines or closures of some of our manufacturing or other facilities which would severely disrupt our operations, or · the sickness or death of key officers or employees of our manufacturing or other facilities. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems in China could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Risks Associated With Our Industry If competing technologies that outperform our batteries were developed and successfully introduced, then our products might not be able to compete effectively in our targeted market segments. Rapid and ongoing changes in technology and product standards could quickly render our products less competitive, or even obsolete. Other companies who are seeking to enhance traditional battery technologies, such as lead-acid and nickel-cadmium, have recently introduced or are developing batteries based on nickel metal-hydride, liquid lithium-ion and other emerging and potential technologies. These competitors are engaged in significant development work on these various battery systems, and we believe that much of this effort is focused on achieving higher energy densities for low power applications such as portable electronics. One or more new, higher energy rechargeable battery technologies could be introduced which could be directly competitive with, or superior to, our technology. The capabilities of many of these competing technologies have improved over the past several years. Competing technologies that outperform our batteries could be developed and successfully introduced, and as a result, there is a risk that our products may not be able to compete effectively in our targeted market segments. We have invested in research and development of next-generation technology in energy solutions. If we are not successful in developing and commercially exploiting new energy solutions based on new materials, or we experience delays in the development and exploitations of new energy solutions compared to our competitors, our future growth and revenues will be adversely affected. Our principal competitors have greater financial and marketing resources than we do and they may therefore develop batteries similar or superior to ours or otherwise compete more successfully than we do. Competition in the rechargeable battery industry is intense. The industry consists of major domestic and international companies, most of which have financial, technical, marketing, sales, manufacturing, distribution and other resources substantially greater than ours. There is a risk that other companies may develop batteries similar or superior to ours. In addition, many of these companies have name recognition, established positions in the market, and long-standing relationships with OEMs and other customers. We believe that our primary competitors are existing suppliers of cylindrical lithium-ion, nickel cadmium, nickel metal-hydride and in some cases, non-SLI lead-acid batteries. These suppliers include Sanyo, Matsushita Industrial Co., Ltd. (Panasonic), Sony, Toshiba, SAFT, E-One Moli Energy Corp., as well as numerous lead-acid manufacturers throughout the world. Most of these companies are very large and have substantial resources and market presence. We expect that we will compete against manufacturers of other types of batteries in our targeted application segments. There is also a risk that we may not be able to compete successfully against manufacturers of other types of batteries in any of our targeted applications. Laws regulating the manufacture or transportation of batteries may be enacted which could result in a delay in the production of our batteries or the imposition of additional costs that could harm our ability to be profitable. At the present time, international, federal, state and local laws do not directly regulate the storage, use and disposal of the component parts of our batteries. However, laws and regulations may be enacted in the future which could impose environmental, health and safety controls on the storage, use and disposal of certain chemicals and metals used in the manufacture of lithium polymer batteries. Satisfying any future laws or regulations could require significant time and resources from our technical staff, including those related to possible redesign which may result in substantial expenditures and delays in the production of our product, all of which could harm our business and reduce our future profitability. 24 The transportation of lithium and lithium-ion batteries is regulated both domestically and internationally. Under recently revised United Nations recommendations and as adopted by the International Air Transport Association, our N-Charge Power System (Model VNC-65) is exempt from a Class 9 designation for transportation, while our N-Charge Power System (Model VNC-130), and U-Charge Power System currently fall within the level such that they are not exempt and require a Class 9 designation for transportation. The revised United Nations recommendations are not U.S. law until such time as they are incorporated into the Department of Transportation Hazardous Material Regulations. However, DOT has proposed new regulations harmonizing with the U.N. guidelines. At present it is not known if or when the proposed regulations would be adopted by the United States. While we fall under the equivalency levels for the United States and comply with all safety packaging requirements worldwide, future DOT or IATA regulations or enforcement policies could impose costly transportation requirements. In addition, compliance with any new DOT and IATA approval process could require significant time and resources from our technical staff and, if redesign were necessary, could delay the introduction of new products. Risks Associated With Ownership of Our Stock Corporate insiders or their affiliates will be able to exercise significant control over matters requiring stockholder approval that might not be in the best interests of our stockholders as a whole. As of June 12, 2008, our officers, directors and their affiliates as a group beneficially owned approximately 55% of our outstanding common stock, of which our Chairman Carl Berg and his affiliates beneficially owned approximately 47% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise significant control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, which could delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. The interest of our officers and directors, when acting in their capacity as stockholders, may lead them to: · vote for the election of directors who agree with the incumbent officers’ or directors’ preferred corporate policy; or · oppose or support significant corporate transactions when these transactions further their interest as incumbent officers or directors, even if these interests diverge from their interests as stockholders per se and thus from the interests of other stockholders. Some provisions of our charter documents may make takeover attempts difficult, which could depress the price of our stock and limit the price that potential acquirers may be willing to pay for our common stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without any action by the outside stockholders, to issue additional shares of our preferred stock, which shares may be given superior voting, liquidation, distribution, and other rights as compared to those of our common stock. The rights of the holders of our capital stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of additional shares of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. These provisions may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over its market price, may decrease the market price and may infringe upon the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. At any given time we might not meet the continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market. Given the volatility of our stock and trends in the stock market in general, at any given time we might not meet the continued listing requirements of The NASDAQ Capital Market. Among other requirements, NASDAQ requires the minimum bid price of a company’s registered shares to be $1.00. On May 16, 2007, the closing price of our common stock was $1.00. If we are not able to maintain the requirements for continued listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market, we could be de-listed and it could have a materially adverse effect on the price and liquidity of our common stock. 25 Our stock price is volatile, which could result in a loss of your investment. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. Factors that may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock include the following: · fluctuation in our operating results, · announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors, · failure to achieve operating results projected by securities analysts, · governmental regulation, · developments in our patent or other proprietary rights or our competitors’ developments, · our relationships with current or future collaborative partners, and · other factors and events beyond our control. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. As a result of this potential stock price volatility, investors may be unable to sell their shares of our common stock at or above the cost of their purchase prices. In addition, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the object of securities class action litigation. If we were the subject of securities class action litigation, this could result in substantial costs, a diversion of our management’s attention and resources and harm to our business and financial condition. Future sales of currently outstanding shares could adversely affect our stock price. The market price of our common stock could drop as a result of sales of a large number of shares in the market or in response to the perception that these sales could occur. In addition, these sales might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of March 31, 2008, we had issued 119,242,392 shares of common stock and have 1,803,144 shares in treasury stock. In addition, at March 31, 2008, we had 10,733,404 shares of our common stock reserved for issuance under warrants and stock options plans. In connection with the potential conversion of the Series C-1 Convertible Preferred Stock and Series C-2 Convertible Preferred Stock, issued on December 1, 2004, we may need to issue up to 2,174,242 and 1,454,392 shares, respectively, of our common stock (based on a conversion price of $1.98 and $2.96, respectively) (in addition to any shares that may be issued with respect to the conversion of accrued dividends). Equity transactions occurring in the future, including sales under our At Market Issuance Sales Agreement, would result in immediate dilution to current equity holders and, as a result, our stock price may go down. Future equity transactions, including the sale of shares of common stock or preferred stock, or the exercise of options or warrants or other convertible securities, would result in dilution and, as a result, our stock price may go down. For example, in February 2008 we entered into an At Market Issuance Sales Agreement with Wm. Smith & Co., which provides that, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth therein, we may, through Wm. Smith & Co. acting as sales agent, issue and sell up to 5 million shares of our common stock. In addition, as opportunities present themselves from time to time, we may sell restricted stock and warrants or convertible debt to investors in private placements conducted by broker-dealers, or in negotiated transactions. Because the securities may be restricted, the securities may be sold at a greater discount to market prices compared to a public securities offering, and the exercise price of the warrants may be at or even lower than market prices. These transactions cause dilution to existing stockholders. Also, from time to time, options may be issued to employees and third parties, with exercise prices equal to market. Exercise of in-the-money options, warrants and other convertible securities will 26 result in dilution to existing stockholders; the amount of dilution will depend on the spread between market and exercise price, and the number of shares involved. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock, and therefore stockholders will be able to recover their investment in our common stock, if at all, only by selling the shares of stock that they hold. Some investors favor companies that pay dividends on common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Because we may not pay dividends, a return on an investment in our stock likely depends on the ability to sell our stock at a profit. Our business is subject to changing regulations relating to corporate governance and public disclosure that has increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. Because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the Commission, and NASDAQ, have recently issued new requirements and regulations and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to recent laws enacted by Congress, most notably Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our efforts to comply with these new regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, materially increased general and administrative expenses and a significant diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating and cost-reduction activities to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit of that assessment has required, and continues to require, the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. There is no assurance that these efforts will be completed on a timely and successful basis. Because these laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance becomes available. This evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to our disclosure and governance practices. In the event that our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, or independent registered public accounting firm determines that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, there may be a material adverse impact in investor perceptions and a decline in the market price of our stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 