ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS THE COMPANY'S INABILITY TO ACCURATELY FORECAST AND ESTIMATE THE AMOUNT AND TIMING OF FUTURE COLLECTIONS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The ability to accurately forecast Consumer Loan performance is critical to the Company's success. At the time of Consumer Loan acceptance, the Company forecasts future expected cash flows from the Consumer Loan. Based on these forecasts, the Company makes an advance to the related dealer-partner at a level designed to achieve an acceptable return on capital. If Consumer Loan performance equals or exceeds original expectations, it is likely the target return on capital will be achieved. However, actual cash flows from any individual Dealer Loan are often different than cash flows estimated at Dealer Loan inception. If such difference is favorable, the difference is recognized into income over the remaining life of the Dealer Loan through a yield adjustment. If such difference is unfavorable, an allowance for credit losses is established and a corresponding provision for credit losses is recorded as a current period expense. Because there are differences between estimated cash flows at inception and actual cash flows, an allowance is required for a significant portion of the Company's Dealer Loan portfolio. There can be no assurance that estimates will be accurate or that Consumer Loan performance will be as expected. If the Company produces disappointing operating results, it will likely be because future Consumer Loan performance was overestimated. In the event that the Company underestimates the default risk or under-prices products, the financial position, liquidity and results of operations will be adversely affected, possibly to a material degree. DUE TO INCREASED COMPETITION FROM TRADITIONAL FINANCING SOURCES AND NON-TRADITIONAL LENDERS, THE COMPANY MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPETE SUCCESSFULLY. The automobile finance market is highly fragmented and is served by a variety of companies. The Company's largest competition comes from "buy here, pay here" dealerships where the dealer finances the consumer's purchase and services the Consumer Loan themselves. The market is also currently served by banks, captive finance affiliates of automobile manufacturers, credit unions and independent finance companies both publicly and privately owned. Many of these companies are much larger and have greater financial resources than are available to the Company, and many have long standing relationships with automobile dealerships. Providers of automobile financing have traditionally competed based on the interest rate charged, the quality of credit accepted, the flexibility of loan terms offered and the quality of service provided to dealers and consumers. In seeking to establish the Company as one of the principal financing sources of its dealer-partners, the Company competes predominately on the basis of a high level of dealer service and strong dealer relationships, and by offering guaranteed credit approval for consumers. While the Company is only aware of a few companies that offer guaranteed credit approval, there is potential that significant direct competition could emerge and that the Company may be unable to compete successfully. THE COMPANY'S ABILITY TO MAINTAIN AND GROW THE BUSINESS IS DEPENDENT ON THE ABILITY TO CONTINUE TO ACCESS FUNDING SOURCES AND OBTAIN CAPITAL ON FAVORABLE TERMS. The Company depends on borrowings under the revolving credit facility and warehouse revolving facility and various other financing alternatives available, in addition to cash flow generated by operations, to fund advances to dealer-partners and for the payment of dealer holdbacks. The $135.0 million revolving credit facility matures on June 20, 2008. As of the filing date of this report, the Company has one warehouse credit facility with various financial institutions providing for available borrowings of up to a total of $325.0 million. This facility matures on February 14, 2007. In addition, the Warehouse Facility must be refinanced within 90 days of February 15, 2006 and within 360 days of the most recent refinancing occurring after February 15, 2006. There can be no assurance that new or additional financing can be obtained, or that it will be available on acceptable terms. If its various financing alternatives were to become limited or unavailable, the Company would have to limit business activity and operations could be materially adversely affected. THE COMPANY MAY NOT BE ABLE TO GENERATE SUFFICIENT CASH FLOW TO SERVICE ITS OUTSTANDING DEBT AND FUND OPERATIONS. The Company currently has substantial outstanding indebtedness and its credit facilities allow the Company to incur significant amounts of additional debt. The ability to make payment of principal or interest on indebtedness will depend in part on the Company's future operating performance, which to a certain extent is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond the Company's control. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flow in the future to service its debt, it may be required to refinance all or a portion of its existing debt or to obtain additional financing. There can be no assurance that any such refinancing will be possible or that any additional financing can be obtained on satisfactory terms. 12 THE SUBSTANTIAL REGULATION TO WHICH THE COMPANY IS SUBJECT LIMITS THE BUSINESS AND COULD RESULT IN POTENTIAL LIABILITY. The Company's business is subject to various laws and regulations which require licensing and qualification; limit interest rates, fees and other charges associated with the Consumer Loans assigned to the Company; require specified disclosures by dealer-partners to consumers; govern the sale and terms of ancillary products; and define the rights to repossess and sell collateral. Failure to comply with, or an adverse change in, these laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company by, among other things, limiting the jurisdictions in which the Company may operate, restricting the ability to realize the value of the collateral securing the loans, making it more costly or burdensome to do business, or resulting in potential liability. In addition, governmental regulations which would deplete the supply of used vehicles, such as environmental protection regulations governing emissions or fuel consumption, could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The sale of insurance products in connection with Consumer Loans assigned to the Company by dealer-partners is also subject to state laws and regulations. As the holder of the Consumer Loans that contain these products, some of these state laws and regulations may apply to the Company's servicing and collection of the Consumer Loans. Although the Company does not believe that such laws and regulations significantly affect its business because it does not deal directly with consumers in the sale of insurance products, there can be no assurance that insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which such products are offered by dealer-partners will not seek to regulate or restrict the operation of the business in such jurisdictions. Any such action could materially adversely affect the income received from such products. ADVERSE CHANGES IN ECONOMIC CONDITIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY'S FINANCIAL POSITION, LIQUIDITY AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND ITS ABILITY TO ENTER INTO FUTURE FINANCING TRANSACTIONS. The Company is subject to general economic conditions which are beyond its control. During periods of economic slowdown or recession, delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses generally increase. These periods also may be accompanied by decreased consumer demand for automobiles and declining values of automobiles securing outstanding Consumer Loans, which weakens collateral coverage and increases the amount of a loss in the event of default. Significant increases in the inventory of used automobiles during periods of economic recession may also depress the prices at which repossessed automobiles may be sold or delay the timing of these sales. Because the business is focused on consumers who do not qualify for conventional automobile financing, the actual rates of delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses on these Consumer Loans could be higher than that of those experienced in the general automobile finance industry, and could be more dramatically affected by a general economic downturn. In addition, during an economic slowdown or recession, the Company's servicing costs may increase without a corresponding increase in service fee income. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, defaults, repossessions or losses or increased servicing costs could also materially adversely affect the Company's financial position, liquidity and results of operations and its ability to enter into future financing transactions. LITIGATION THE COMPANY IS INVOLVED IN FROM TIME TO TIME MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT ITS FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND CASH FLOWS. As a result of the consumer-oriented nature of the industry in which the Company operates and uncertainties with respect to the application of various laws and regulations in some circumstances, the Company is subject to various consumer claims and litigation seeking damages and statutory penalties, based upon, among other things, usury, disclosure inaccuracies, wrongful repossession, violations of bankruptcy stay provisions, certificate of title disputes, fraud and breach of contract. Some litigation against the Company could take the form of class action complaints by consumers. As the assignee of Consumer Loans originated by dealer-partners, it may also be named as a co-defendant in lawsuits filed by consumers principally against dealer-partners. The damages and penalties claimed by consumers in these types of matters can be substantial. The relief requested by the plaintiffs varies but includes requests for compensatory, statutory and punitive damages. A significant judgment against the Company in connection with any litigation could have a material adverse affect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. 13 THE COMPANY IS DEPENDENT ON ITS SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND THE LOSS OF ANY OF THESE INDIVIDUALS OR AN INABILITY TO HIRE ADDITIONAL PERSONNEL COULD ADVERSELY EFFECT ITS ABILITY TO OPERATE PROFITABLY. The Company's senior management average over 8 years of experience with the Company. The Company's success is dependent upon the management and the leadership skills of these managers. In addition, competition from other companies to hire the Company's personnel possessing the necessary skills and experience required could contribute to an increase in employee turnover. The loss of any of these individuals or an inability to attract and retain additional qualified personnel could adversely affect the Company. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to retain its existing senior management personnel or attract additional qualified personnel. NATURAL DISASTERS, ACTS OF WAR, TERRORIST ATTACKS AND THREATS OR THE ESCALATION OF MILITARY ACTIVITY IN RESPONSE TO SUCH ATTACKS OR OTHERWISE MAY NEGATIVELY AFFECT THE BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Natural disasters, acts of war, terrorist attacks and the escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or otherwise may have negative and significant effects, such as imposition of increased security measures, changes in applicable laws, market disruptions and job losses. Such events may have an adverse effect on the economy in general. Moreover, the potential for future terrorist attacks and the national and international responses to such threats could affect the business in ways that cannot be predicted. The effect of any of these events or threats could have an adverse affect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 