Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investment in our common shares involves a degree of risk. These risks should be carefully considered before any investment is made. The following are some of the key risk factors generally associated with our business. However, the risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. I. COMPANY-SPECIFIC RISKS 1. Ability to In-License, Acquire and Develop Products Our future revenue growth and profitability are dependent upon our ability to in-license or otherwise acquire new specialty CNS compounds or other commercially viable products and to further develop or enhance such products. Our failure to do so successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. Our future revenue growth, profitability and financial condition depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to successfully in-license or otherwise acquire new specialty CNS compounds or other commercially viable products and to further develop or enhance such products. Our success in implementing our specialty CNS strategy is subject to a number of risks, including our ability to identify, effectively evaluate, acquire and develop high priority compounds. We rely on the acquisition, in-licensing or other access to products or technologies from third-party drug-development companies. Supplementing our product portfolio in this manner requires the commitment of substantial effort and expense in seeking out, evaluating and negotiating collaboration or acquisition agreements, which we may incur without achieving our desired results. In addition, product in-licensing involves inherent risks, including uncertainties due to matters that may affect the successful development or commercialization of the in-licensed product, as well as the possibility of contractual disagreements with regard to terms such as patent rights, license scope or termination rights. Competition for attractive product opportunities is intense and may require us to devote substantial resources, both human and financial, to an opportunity that may not result in a successfully developed, or commercialized, product. In addition, our current structure, which is dependent in the U.S. on third-party marketing or distribution partners, may make us less attractive to third-party marketers, distributors and licensors of new products, and this may affect our ability to secure such partners. 28 Table of Contents Product development is subject to a great deal of uncertainty, risk and expense. Development of pharmaceutical candidates may fail or be terminated at various stages of the R&D process, often after substantial financial and other resources have been invested in their exploration and development. 2. Preclinical and Clinical Trials a. We will not be able to commercialize our pipeline products if preclinical studies do not produce successful results or if clinical trials do not demonstrate safety and efficacy in humans. The Company and its development partners, as applicable, conduct extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy in humans of our pipeline products in order to obtain regulatory approval for the sale of our pipeline products. Preclinical studies and clinical trials are expensive, can take many years and have uncertain outcomes. In clinical trials for products for specialty CNS conditions, the number of patients that may have the relevant condition may be lower, making it more difficult to recruit the patients necessary to conduct a meaningful clinical trial. Although regulatory requirements may permit smaller-sized clinical trials for products for these types of conditions, demonstrating statistically significant efficacy with a smaller clinical trial population may be more difficult. Also, to the extent that the clinical endpoint for these types of conditions is more easily measured and well-defined, any negative clinical trial results are very apparent. Our success will depend on the success of the preclinical and clinical trials conducted by us and our development partners. It can take several years to complete the preclinical and clinical trials of a product, and a failure of one or more of these preclinical or clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. We believe that the development of each of our pipeline products involves significant risks at each stage of testing. If preclinical or clinical trial difficulties and failures arise, our pipeline products may never be approved for sale or become commercially viable. The risk of preclinical or clinical trial failure is even greater where the pipeline product contains an NCE, or where the pipeline product uses a novel or not fully known mechanism of action. Likewise, the risk of discovering harmful side effects is greater where the pipeline product contains an NCE. In addition, the possibility exists that: •the results from early preclinical or clinical trials may not be statistically significant or predictive of results that will be obtained from expanded, advanced clinical trials; •a pipeline product may not exhibit the expected therapeutic results in humans, may cause harmful side effects or have other unexpected characteristics that may delay or preclude regulatory approval or limit commercial use if approved; •institutional review boards or regulators, including the FDA and TPD, may hold, suspend or terminate our preclinical or clinical research or the preclinical or clinical trials of our pipeline products for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements or if, in their opinion, the participating subjects are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; •subjects may drop out of our clinical trials; •our preclinical or clinical trials may produce negative, inconsistent or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical or clinical trials; •the cost of our preclinical or clinical trials may be greater than we currently anticipate; and •the difficulties and risks associated with preclinical and clinical trials may result in the failure to receive regulatory approval to continue to test or to sell our pipeline products or the inability to commercialize any of our pipeline products. 29 Table of Contents b. If clinical trials for our pipeline products are delayed, we may be unable to commercialize our pipeline products on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. Planned clinical trials may not begin on time, may take longer to complete than anticipated, or may need to be restructured after they have begun. Clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays related to: •obtaining an effective investigational new drug application, or IND application, or regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; •identifying and engaging a sufficient number of clinical trial sites; •negotiating acceptable clinical trial agreement terms with prospective trial sites; •obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; •recruiting qualified subjects to participate in clinical trials in a timely manner; •competition in recruiting clinical investigators; •shortage or lack of availability of supplies of drugs for clinical trials; •the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive results or poorly executed testing; •the placement of a clinical hold on a study; •the failure of third parties conducting and overseeing the operations of our clinical trials to perform their contractual or regulatory obligations in a timely fashion; and •exposure of clinical trial subjects to unexpected and unacceptable health risks or noncompliance with regulatory requirements, which may result in suspension of the trial. Our pipeline products have significant milestones to reach, including the successful completion of clinical trials, before commercialization. If we experience significant delays in or termination of clinical trials, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our pipeline products or any other products that we may develop will be adversely impacted. In addition, our product development costs would increase and our ability to generate revenue could be impaired. c. We rely on third parties to conduct, supervise and monitor our clinical trials, and those service providers may perform in an unsatisfactory manner, such as by failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such trials. We rely on third parties such as CROs, medical institutions and clinical investigators to enroll qualified patients and conduct, supervise and monitor our clinical trials. Our reliance on these service providers for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. Our reliance on these service providers, however, does not relieve us of our regulatory responsibilities, including ensuring that our clinical trials are conducted in accordance with good clinical practice regulations, and the investigational plan and protocols contained in the relevant regulatory application, such as the IND application. In addition, they may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct our preclinical studies or clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our trial design. If these service providers do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for, and to commercialize, our product candidates may be delayed or prevented. 3. Regulatory Approvals and Compliance a. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval to sell our pipeline products we would not be able to generate related revenues in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. FDA and TPD approval is required before any prescription drug product, including generic drug products, can be sold in the U.S. and Canada, respectively. Other countries may also have similar regulatory approval 30 Table of Contents requirements before products can be sold in those countries. The process of obtaining FDA, TPD and other regulatory approvals to manufacture and market new and generic pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time consuming, costly and largely unpredictable. The timing and cost of obtaining FDA, TPD and other regulatory approvals, or the failure to obtain such approvals, could adversely affect our product introduction plans, business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. If we do not receive regulatory approval to sell our pipeline products, we will not be able to generate revenues in future periods for such products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. b. Our marketing, promotional and pricing practices, as well as the manner in which an in-house or third-party sales force interact with purchasers, prescribers and patients, are subject to extensive regulation and any material failure to comply could result in significant sanctions against the Company. The marketing, promotional, and pricing practices of pharmaceutical companies, as well as the manner in which companies, in-house or third-party sales forces interact with purchasers, prescribers, and patients, are subject to extensive regulation. Regulatory enforcement by the applicable agency may result in the imposition of civil and/or criminal penalties, injunctions, and/or limitations on marketing practice for our products. Many companies, including Biovail, have been the subject of claims related to these practices asserted by federal authorities. These claims have resulted in fines and other consequences to the Company. We are now operating under a CIA that requires us to maintain a comprehensive compliance program governing our sales, marketing and government pricing and contracting functions. Material failures to comply with the CIA could result in significant sanctions to the Company. For example, enforcement actions could result in expansion of the existing restrictions on our sales and marketing activities under the CIA. See Item 3. "Legal Proceedings". Even in jurisdictions like Canada where certain types of marketing practices are regulated more through guidelines and codes of conduct than legislation, engaging in certain types of marketing practices can result in significant scrutiny, negative publicity and harm to business relationships even if the company is not breaching any legislation. c. We may incur significant liability if it is determined that we are promoting the "off-label" use of drugs. Companies may not promote drugs for "off-label" uses — that is, uses that are not described in the product's labelling and that differ from those approved by the FDA, TPD or other applicable regulatory agencies. Physicians may prescribe drug products for off-label uses, and such off-label uses are common across medical specialties. Although the FDA, TPD and other regulatory agencies do not regulate a physician's choice of treatments, the FDA, TPD and other regulatory agencies do restrict communications by pharmaceutical companies or their sales representatives on the subject of off-label use. The FDA, TPD and other regulatory agencies actively enforce regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing clearance has not been obtained. A company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions. Notwithstanding the regulatory restrictions on off-label promotion, the FDA, TPD and other regulatory authorities allow companies to engage in truthful, non-misleading, and non-promotional speech concerning their products. Although we believe that all of our communications regarding all of our products are in compliance with the relevant regulatory requirements, the FDA, TPD or another regulatory authority may disagree, and we may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies, as well as criminal sanctions. In addition, management's attention could be diverted from our business operations and our reputation could be damaged. Our distribution partners may also be the subject of regulatory investigations involving, or remedies or sanctions for, off-label uses of products we have licensed to them, which may have an adverse impact on sales of such licensed products, which may, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. 31 Table of Contents d. All products manufactured by us or for us by third-party manufacturers must be made in a manner consistent with FDA-mandated, TPD-mandated and ICH-mandated GMP which require substantial expenditures of time, money and effort. All products manufactured by us or for us by third-party manufacturers must be made in a manner consistent with FDA-mandated, TPD-mandated and ICH-mandated GMP. Compliance with GMP regulations requires substantial expenditures of time, money and effort in such areas as production, quality control and quality assurance to ensure full technical, facility and system compliance. The FDA, TPD and other regulatory authorities inspect on a regular basis our and our third-party manufacturers' manufacturing facilities for compliance. Failure to comply with GMP regulations could occur for various reasons, including failure of a product to meet or maintain specifications, stability issues or unexpected trends in patient adverse drug reactions ("ADRs"). If the regulatory agencies were to require one of our or our third-party manufacturers' manufacturing facilities to cease or limit production, our business could be adversely affected, in part because regulatory approval to manufacture a drug is generally site-specific. As a result of ceasing manufacturing and packaging at the Dorado, Puerto Rico facility our in-house manufacturing will largely be concentrated at our Steinbach, Manitoba facility with the Carolina, Puerto Rico facility remaining open indefinitely in order to meet higher demand for generic Tiazac® and generic Cardizem® CD products. Delay and cost in obtaining regulatory approval to manufacture at a different facility also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. In addition, if we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, our business could be seriously harmed because a regulatory agency may: •issue warning letters; •suspend or withdraw our regulatory approval for approved or in-market products; •seize or detain products or recommend a product recall; •refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us; •suspend any of our ongoing clinical trials; •impose restrictions or obligations on our operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; •close our facilities or those of our contract manufacturers; or •impose civil or criminal penalties. Under certain circumstances, regulatory agencies also have the authority to revoke previously granted drug approvals. These policies may change and additional U.S. or Canadian federal, provincial, state or local governmental regulations or foreign governmental regulations may be enacted that could affect our ability to maintain compliance. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse governmental regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action. If we or our third-party manufacturers were deemed to be deficient regarding regulatory compliance in any significant way, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and it could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. 4. Manufacturing, Supply and Delivery a. Manufacturing difficulties or delays may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. Our manufacturing and other processes use complicated and sophisticated equipment, which sometimes requires a significant amount of time to obtain and install. In addition, the closure of our Dorado, Puerto Rico facility, which we intend to close in 2010, will concentrate the majority of our in-house manufacturing at our Steinbach, Manitoba facility and, as a result, we will face risks inherent in manufacturing our products largely at a single facility. Manufacturing complexity, testing requirements and safety and security processes combine to 32 Table of Contents increase the overall difficulty of manufacturing these products and resolving manufacturing problems that we may encounter. Although we endeavour to properly maintain our equipment, including through on-site quality control and experienced manufacturing supervision, and have key spare parts on hand, our business could suffer if certain manufacturing or other equipment, or all or a portion of our remaining facility, were to become inoperable for a period of time. This could occur for various reasons, including catastrophic events, such as hurricanes, earthquakes or other natural disasters, explosions, environmental accidents, pandemics, quarantine, equipment failures or delays in obtaining components or replacements, construction delays or defects and other events, both within and outside of our control. We will not have a secondary or back-up manufacturing facility in place to assist with these manufacturing and other processes should any of these events occur. As a result, we could experience substantial production delays in the event of any such occurrence until we build or locate replacement equipment or a replacement facility, as applicable, and seek to obtain necessary regulatory approvals for such replacement. Any interruption in our manufacture of products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. b. If we are unable to optimize the use of or expand our manufacturing facilities or secure cost-effective third-party manufacturing arrangements in a timely manner, we may be unable to meet market demand for our products, which could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. We have, in past years, operated some of our manufacturing facilities on a 24-hour-a-day, seven-day-a-week production cycle to meet the market demand for current in-market products and anticipated product launches. Successfully operating on that basis and meeting the anticipated market demand requires minimal equipment failures and product rejections. In addition, we manufacture products that employ a variety of technology platforms. Some of our manufacturing facilities may, at times, be scheduled in excess of rated capacity, while others may be under-utilized. Unless our manufacturing processes are optimized or our manufacturing facilities are expanded where appropriate, or we secure cost-effective third-party manufacturing arrangements in a timely manner, we may have difficulty fulfilling all demand for new large volume products, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, if we are required to expand any of our facilities, it may require significant capital investment. If we are unable to complete any expansion projects in a timely and cost-efficient manner or adequately equip the expanded facilities in a timely and cost-effective manner or we experience delays in receiving FDA and TPD approvals for these expanded facilities, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. c. Disruptions of delivery of our products and the routine flow of manufactured goods across the U.S. border could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. The supply of our products to our customers is subject to and dependent upon the use of transportation services. Disruption of transportation services could adversely impact our financial results. In addition, our manufacturing facilities are located outside the continental U.S. and most of our sales are within the U.S. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from products that are imported into the U.S. in finished dosage form from Canada or other countries and must undergo review by the Department of Homeland Security — U.S. Customs and Border Protection ("DHS-CBP"). We also purchase products from third parties outside the U.S. Disruption to the routine flow of manufactured goods across the border could have a significant impact on when revenues are recognized and the willingness of customers to continue to purchase products that we import from outside of the U.S. As such, any change in policy or policy implementation relating to U.S. border controls may have an adverse impact on our access to the U.S. marketplace that, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. Over the past few years, pharmaceutical products manufactured outside of the U.S. have been associated with significant adverse health effects and/or as posing elevated risks even in the absence of adverse effects. As a result, there is increased interest in disclosure with regard to foreign sourcing of ingredients. Current practice 33 Table of Contents within the pharmaceutical industry with respect to country of origin marking ("COOM") is in a period of transition toward more disclosure. Compliance determinations at U.S. border stations are complicated by the fact that the country of origin for tariff purposes may not be the same as for COOM purposes and may be different still from the FDA "manufactured by" statement. The result can be that DHS-CBP may issue a Notice to Mark and/or Notice to Redeliver — incurring relabeling costs and delay — that may or may not be well founded and/or penalties and fines for products deemed to be improperly presented for importation. Not all of our customers have adopted the same approach to COOM and instructions from border officials can vary. In addition, repeated presentation of goods with similar compliance deficiencies can result in fines. We may be exposed to such costs and disruption until we can establish and confirm agreement with our customers to accept a consistent set of labelling rules that are also acceptable to DHS-CBP. d. If we are unable to obtain components or raw materials, or products supplied by third parties, our ability to manufacture and deliver our products to the market may be impeded, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. Some components and raw materials used in our manufactured products, and some products sold by us, are currently available only from one or a limited number of domestic or foreign suppliers. Such suppliers must be qualified in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements and the process of qualifying a supplier can be costly and time consuming. In the event an existing supplier becomes unavailable through business interruption or financial insolvency or loses its regulatory status as an approved source and we do not have a second supplier, we will attempt to locate a qualified alternative; however, we may be unable to obtain the required components, raw materials or products on a timely basis or at commercially reasonable prices. A prolonged interruption in the supply of a single-sourced raw material, including the API, or finished product or the occurrence of quality deficiencies in the products which our suppliers provide, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and the market value of our common shares could decline. Our arrangements with foreign suppliers are subject to certain additional risks, including the availability of government clearances, export duties, transport issues, political instability, currency fluctuations and restrictions on the transfer of funds. Arrangements with international raw material suppliers are subject to, among other things, FDA and TPD regulation, various import duties and required government clearances. Acts of governments outside the U.S. and Canada may affect the price or availability of raw materials needed for the development or manufacture of our products. The degree of impact such a situation could have would, in part, depend on the product affected. In addition, we rely on third-party manufacturers to supply certain products that we market or distribute, including Cardizem® CD, Vasotec®, Vaseretic®, Zovirax®, Ativan®, Wellbutrin® SR, Zyban®, Glumetza® 500 mg, Isordil®, Xenazine® and Nitoman®. Our manufacturers may suffer an interruption, including due to manufacturing or shipping problems, financial insolvency, regulatory inspections or difficulty in sourcing components or raw materials. We are also vulnerable to a supply interruption should we be unable to renew or replace, or successfully transfer, such supply arrangements when our current agreements with our third-party manufacturers expire, in which case we may experience an interruption in our supply. Any such supply interruption could have an adverse impact on our operations. e. Delays or transition issues arising from the closure of our Dorado, Puerto Rico manufacturing facility may adversely affect our business and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. In support of the implementation of our specialty CNS strategy, we are consolidating our manufacturing resources through the closure of our Dorado, Puerto Rico manufacturing facility and the transfer of certain manufacturing processes to our Steinbach, Manitoba facility. We anticipate that the site in Dorado will be fully transitioned to Steinbach early in 2010. If we experience a delay in transitioning such manufacturing processes to Steinbach, or if we experience other disruptions or issues (including a delay in obtaining necessary regulatory approvals) in transitioning these manufacturing processes to Steinbach, we could fail to deliver our products in a timely manner, which could adversely affect our relationships with our customers and business partners, which, 34 Table of Contents in turn, could adversely affect our business and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. The Carolina, Puerto Rico site is expected to remain open indefinitely due to increased demand for products manufactured in this plant. 5. Commercialization and Marketing a. Our approved products may not achieve or maintain expected levels of market acceptance, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. Even if we are able to obtain regulatory approvals for our new pharmaceutical products, generic or branded, the success of those products is dependent upon achieving and maintaining market acceptance. New product candidates that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or may have only limited or no commercial success. Levels of market acceptance for our new products could be impacted by several factors, many of which are not within our control, including but not limited to: •safety, efficacy, convenience and cost-effectiveness of our products compared to products of our competitors; •scope of approved uses and marketing approval; •timing of market approvals and market entry; •availability of alternative products from our competitors; •acceptance of the price of our products; and •ability to market our products effectively at the retail level or in the appropriate setting of care. Further, the discovery of significant problems with a product similar to one of our products that implicate (or are perceived to implicate) an entire class of products could have an adverse effect on sales of the affected products. Accordingly, new data about our products, or products similar to our products, could negatively impact demand for our products due to real or perceived side effects or uncertainty regarding efficacy and, in some cases, could result in product withdrawal. These situations, should they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. b. We may not be able to establish or acquire a U.S. sales force to effectively support our specialty CNS strategy. We currently do not have an in-house sales force to market our products in the U.S. In the U.S., our products are marketed through strategic alliances with commercial parties with established sales and marketing infrastructures. In order to support our specialty CNS strategy, we plan to create or acquire a specialized U.S. sales force to effectively support the CNS products in our pipeline or CNS products we acquire or develop in the future. To meet our objectives, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel with specialized skill sets. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense, and we might not be successful in attracting and retaining them. Our ability to build and maintain a specialized U.S. sales force will depend on our ability to recruit, train and retain top quality people with advanced skills who understand sales to, and the specific needs of, our target customers. Developing a direct sales force is expensive and time consuming and could delay or limit the success of any product launch. The cost of establishing and maintaining a direct sales force may exceed its cost effectiveness. Additionally, we will compete with many companies that currently have extensive and well-funded sales operations. Our sales efforts may be unable to compete successfully against these companies, and we may not be able to develop an effective specialized U.S. sales force on a timely basis or at all. If we are unable to establish an appropriate U.S. sales force to execute our specialty CNS strategy or secure third-party marketing or distribution partners in the U.S., we may not be able to commercialize new products successfully which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. 35 Table of Contents c. We may not be able to effectively establish third-party marketing or distribution arrangements. The success of any new product will depend on our ability to secure third-party marketing or distribution arrangements in the U.S. and elsewhere in the absence of a specialty in-house sales force appropriate to the relevant subscribing community. Seeking out, evaluating and negotiating marketing partnership agreements may involve the commitment of substantial time and effort and may not ultimately result in a viable marketing or distribution relationship. If we enter into a marketing agreement whereby we outsource marketing and promotional activities, including creation and implementation of a sales force, to a third-party, our control over specific materials and tactics used by that sales force may be diminished as compared with a specialty in-house sales force. If we are unable to establish an appropriate U.S. sales force to execute our specialty CNS strategy or secure third-party marketing or distribution arrangements in the U.S., we may not be able to commercialize new products successfully which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. d. We may experience reductions in the levels of reimbursement for or acceptance of pharmaceutical products by governmental authorities, HMOs or other third-party payors. Any such reductions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. A number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the U.S. healthcare system, and changes in the levels at which pharmaceutical companies are reimbursed for sales of their products or pricing of drugs, have been proposed. In addition, as a result of the focus on healthcare reform in connection with the current presidential administration in the U.S., Congress may implement changes in laws and regulations governing healthcare service providers, including measures to control costs or reductions in reimbursement levels or price controls, which may have an adverse impact on our business. While we cannot predict when or whether any of these proposals will be adopted, or the effect these proposals may have on our business, the pending nature of these proposals, as well as the adoption of any proposal, may exacerbate industry-wide pricing pressures and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Various governmental authorities and private health insurers and other organizations, such as HMOs, managed care organizations ("MCOs") and provincial formularies provide reimbursement to consumers for the cost of certain pharmaceutical products. Our ability to successfully commercialize our products and product candidates — even if FDA or TPD approval is obtained — and the demand for our products depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement is available from such third-party payors. Third-party payors are increasingly becoming less willing to reimburse for medications which offer primarily convenience to and greater compliance among patients (such as once-daily formulations) and are focusing more on products that offer clinically meaningful benefits. If we are not able to execute our specialty CNS strategy, which we believe is designed to address this shift, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we continue to successfully execute our specialty CNS strategy, the products that will be commercialized are likely to be costly. Insurers may be reluctant to list such drugs on their formulary, thus limiting reimbursement of those products and having a material adverse affect on volume of sales. Third-party payors increasingly challenge the pricing of pharmaceutical products. In addition, the trend toward managed healthcare in the U.S., the growth of organizations such as HMOs and MCOs and legislative proposals and other initiatives in the U.S. and Canada to reform healthcare and government insurance programs, could significantly influence the purchase of pharmaceutical products (both brand and generic drugs), resulting in lower prices and/or a reduction in product demand. For example, some of the provinces in Canada have implemented or are considering implementing cost saving measures such as requiring brand name drug companies to enter into "risk-sharing or listing agreements" with the province whereby the drug company pays "rebates" or other incentives to the province to list the drug on the provincial formulary. In addition, although currently this practice has been limited, some provinces are instituting tenders to determine which interchangeable product will be listed on the provincial formulary. Further, some provinces reimburse generic drugs based on a formula equal to a percentage of the price of the corresponding brand name drug and one 36 Table of Contents recent trend has been to significantly lower the percentage at which generics will be reimbursed. Other provinces (the four western provinces and the territories) have announced that they will form a joint prescription drug buying plan to better leverage their buying power. These and other cost-containment measures and healthcare reforms could affect our ability to sell our products at viable prices, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. By way of further example, in the U.S., the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 established a voluntary outpatient prescription drug benefit under Part D of the Social Security Act. The program, which went into effect January 1, 2006, is administered by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services within the Department of Health and Human Services and is implemented and operated by private sector Part D plan sponsors. Each participating drug plan is permitted by regulation to develop and establish its own unique drug formulary that may exclude certain drugs from coverage, impose prior authorization and other coverage restrictions, and negotiate payment levels for drugs which may be lower than reimbursement levels available through private health plans or other payors. Moreover, beneficiary co-insurance requirements could influence which products are recommended by physicians and selected by patients. To the extent that private insurers or managed care programs follow Medicare Part D coverage and payment developments, the adverse effects of lower Medicare payments may be magnified by private insurers adopting similar lower payments. New federal or state drug payment changes or healthcare reforms in the U.S. may be enacted or adopted in the future that could further lower payment for our products. Uncertainty exists about the reimbursement status of newly approved pharmaceutical products. Reimbursement in the U.S., Canada or foreign countries may not be available for some of our products. Any reimbursement granted may not be maintained, or limits on reimbursement available from third parties may reduce the demand for, or negatively affect the price of, those products. We are also unable to predict if additional legislation or regulation or non-legislative initiatives impacting the healthcare industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future, or what effect such legislation or regulation or non-legislative initiatives would have on our business. Any reimbursement may be reduced in the future, perhaps to the point that market demand for our products declines. Such decline could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. Changes to Medicare, Medicaid or similar governmental programs — or the amounts paid by those programs for our services — may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These programs are highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial changes and cost-containment measures. In recent years, changes in these programs have limited and reduced reimbursement to providers. The prices of drugs sold or reimbursed in a particular jurisdiction can impact the prices at which such drug is sold or reimbursed in other jurisdictions. For example, the province of Quebec has a "most favoured nation" clause regarding the price at which it will reimburse drugs. The maximum price at which patented drugs can be sold in Canada is regulated by the Patented Medicine Prices Review Board and is dependent on the price at which the drug is sold in certain countries in the world. Therefore, decreases in prices in one jurisdiction can have repercussions in other jurisdictions. e. A relatively small group of products represents a significant portion of our revenues, gross profit and earnings. If, due to genericization or otherwise, the volume or pricing of any of these products declines or the costs of related manufacturing, distribution or marketing increase, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. Sales of a limited number of our products represent a significant portion of our revenues, gross profit and earnings. As the volume or pricing of our existing significant products declines in the future, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected and this could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. The genericization of our existing products is one of the reasons for the current or continued decline in volume and pricing of our products. Following the initial pricing and volume impact of genericization, pricing 37 Table of Contents and volume may either decrease further or increase dependent upon market and competitive conditions. In addition, if this or any of our other key products were to become subject to any other issues, such as material adverse changes in prescription growth rates, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, material product liability litigation, publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence or pressure from competitive products, the adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and market value of our common shares could be significant. f. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and is subject to rapid and significant technological change, which could render our technologies and products obsolete or uncompetitive. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and is subject to rapid and significant technological change that could render certain of our products obsolete or uncompetitive. Many of our competitors are conducting R&D activities in therapeutic areas targeted by our products and our product development candidates. The introduction of competitive therapies as alternatives to our existing products may negatively impact our revenues from those products, and the introduction of products that directly compete with products in development could dramatically reduce the value of those development projects or chances of successfully commercializing those products, which could have a material adverse effect on our long-term financial success. For example, our Legacy Products (as described in Item 1.B., "Business — Business Overview — Current Product Portfolio and Product Revenues") face competition from conventional forms of drug delivery and from controlled release drug-delivery systems developed, or under development, by other companies. We compete with companies in North America and internationally, including major pharmaceutical and chemical companies, specialized CROs, research-and-development firms, universities and other research institutions. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources and selling and marketing capabilities, greater experience in clinical testing and human clinical trials of pharmaceutical products and greater experience in obtaining FDA, TPD and other regulatory approvals than we do. In addition, some of our competitors may have lower development and manufacturing costs. Our competitors may succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective or less expensive to produce or use than any that we may develop or license. These developments could render our technologies and products obsolete or uncompetitive, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. g. We have entered into distribution agreements with other companies to distribute certain of our generic products at supply prices based on net sales. Declines in the pricing and/or volume, over which we have no control, of such generic products, and therefore the amounts paid to us, may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. Our portfolio of generic products is the subject of various agreements, pursuant to which we manufacture and sell generic products to other companies, which distribute such products in the U.S. and Canada at a supply price typically based on net sales. These companies make all distribution and pricing decisions independently of Biovail. If the pricing and/or volume of such generic products declines, our revenues could be adversely impacted which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. 6. Post-Approval and Post-Marketing Regulatory Impacts a. Our marketed drugs will be subject to ongoing regulatory review. If we fail to comply with U.S. and Canadian regulatory requirements and those in other territories where our products are sold, we could lose our marketing approvals or be subject to fines or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. Following initial regulatory approval of any drugs we or our partners may develop, we will be subject to continuing regulatory review by the FDA, the TPD and other regulatory authorities in territories where our products are marketed or intended to be marketed, including the review of adverse drug events and clinical 38 Table of Contents results that are reported after product candidates become commercially available. This may include results from any post-marketing follow-up studies or other reporting required as a condition to approval. The manufacturing, labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, promotion, reporting and recordkeeping related to the product will also be subject to extensive ongoing regulatory requirements. In addition, incidents of ADRs, unintended side effects or misuse relating to our products could result in additional regulatory controls or restrictions, or even lead to withdrawal of a product from the market. Similarly, our CRD operations could suffer a loss of business or be subject to liability should a serious ADR occur during the course of their conduct of a study. b. Our approved products may be subject to additional clinical trials which could result in the loss of marketing approval, changes in product labeling or new or increased concerns about side effects or efficacy. As a condition to granting marketing approval of a product, the FDA and TPD may require a company to conduct additional clinical trials. The results generated in these trials could result in the subsequent loss of marketing approval, changes in product labeling or new or increased concerns about side effects or efficacy of a product. On September 27, 2007, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 ("FDAA") was enacted, giving the FDA enhanced post-market authority, including the explicit authority to require post-market studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information and compliance with FDA-approved risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. The FDA's exercise of this authority could result in delays or increased costs during product development, clinical trials and regulatory review, increased costs to comply with post-approval regulatory requirements and potential restrictions on sales of approved products. Post-marketing studies, whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or undertaken voluntarily, and other emerging data about marketed products, such as adverse event reports, may also adversely affect sales of our products. Such studies, which increasingly employ sophisticated methods and techniques, may call into question the utilization, safety and efficacy of previously marketed products. In some cases, studies may result in the discontinuance of product marketing or the need for risk management programs. In addition, government agencies may determine that a product should be scheduled as a controlled substance under the Controlled Drugs and Substances Act (the "CDSA"), as has been proposed by Health Canada for our tramadol products. If one of our products is scheduled under the CDSA or a similar regulation, such regulation would reduce practitioner prescriptions for such product, which may lead to a reduction in revenues from such product. Such regulation may also increase the costs of manufacturing and distributing such product in order to meet the regulatory requirements applicable to controlled substances, such as process upgrades and renovations required at our facilities and changes to our manufacturing, storage and transportation practices. 7. Intellectual Property a. We may be unable to effectively protect our intellectual and other proprietary property, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. The pharmaceutical industry historically has generated substantial litigation concerning the manufacture, use and sale of products and we expect this litigation activity to continue. Generic drug manufacturers seek to sell and, in a number of cases have sold generic versions of many of our most important products prior to the expiration of our patents, and have exhibited a readiness to do so for other products in the future. As a result, we expect that patents related to our products will be routinely challenged, and our patents may not be upheld. If we are not successful in defending an attack on our patents and maintaining exclusive rights to market one or more of our major products still under patent protection, we could lose a significant portion of sales in a very short period, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. See Item 1.B. "Business — Business Overview — Patents and Proprietary Rights", for more information on our intellectual property rights and Item 3. "Legal Proceedings — Intellectual Property", for a discussion of intellectual property-related proceedings in which we are involved. 39 Table of Contents In addition, we rely on trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information to provide additional legal protection to various aspects of our business, including information about our formulations, manufacturing methods and analytical procedures, as well as information contained in our Company documents and regulatory filings. Although we require our employees and other vendors and suppliers to sign confidentiality agreements, we may not have adequate remedies in the event of a breach of these confidentiality agreements. Furthermore, the trade secrets and proprietary technology upon which we rely may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors without infringing upon any proprietary technology. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability in the future to protect those trade secrets and other proprietary information. The cost of responding to challenges to our patents and the inherent costs to defend the validity of our patents, including the prosecution of infringements and the related litigation, and to protect our other intellectual property could be substantial and could preclude or delay commercialization of products. Such litigation could also require a substantial commitment of our management's time. b. We may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability in the future to obtain patents and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. Our competitors may have filed patent applications, or hold issued patents, relating to products or processes competitive with those we are developing. The patents of our competitors may impair our ability to do business in a particular area. In the event we discover that we may be infringing third-party patents or other intellectual property rights, we may not be able to obtain licenses from those third parties on commercially attractive terms or at all. We may have to defend against charges that we violated patents or the proprietary rights of third parties. Litigation is costly and time-consuming, and diverts the attention of our management and technical personnel. In addition, if we infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could lose our right to develop, manufacture or sell products, including our generic products, or could be required to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. An adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or a failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. See Item 3. "Legal Proceedings — Intellectual Property", for a discussion of intellectual property-related proceedings in which we are involved. 8. Income Tax a. Our effective tax rates may increase. We have operations in various countries that have differing tax laws and rates. A significant portion of our revenue and income is earned in Barbados, a country with a low domestic tax rate. Dividends from such after-tax business income are received tax-free in Canada. Our tax structure is supported by current domestic tax laws in the countries in which we operate and the application of tax treaties between the various countries in which we operate. Our income tax reporting is subject to audit by domestic and foreign authorities. Our effective tax rate may change from year to year based on changes in the mix of activities and income allocated or earned among the different jurisdictions in which we operate; changes in tax laws in these jurisdictions; changes in the tax treaties between various countries in which we operate; changes in our eligibility for benefits under those tax treaties; and changes in the estimated values of deferred tax assets and liabilities. Such changes could result in an increase in the effective tax rate on all or a portion of our income to a rate possibly exceeding the statutory income tax rate of Canada or the U.S. See Item 1.B. "Business — Business Overview — Taxation". Our provision for income taxes is based on certain estimates and assumptions made by management. Our consolidated income tax rate is affected by the amount of net income earned in our various operating jurisdictions, the availability of benefits under tax treaties, and the rates of taxes payable in respect of that income. We enter into many transactions and arrangements in the ordinary course of business in respect of which the tax treatment is not entirely certain. We must therefore make estimates and judgments based on our knowledge and understanding of applicable tax laws and tax treaties, and the application of those tax laws and 40 Table of Contents tax treaties to our business, in determining our consolidated tax provision. For example, certain countries could seek to tax a greater share of income than has been provided for by us. The final outcome of any audits by taxation authorities may differ from the estimates and assumptions we have used in determining our consolidated tax provisions and accruals. This could result in a material adverse effect on our consolidated income tax provision, financial condition and the net income for the period in which such determinations are made. We have recorded a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets relating to our Canadian operating losses, Scientific Research and Experimental Development pool, investment tax credit carryforward balances, provisions for legal settlements, and future tax depreciation. We have assumed that these deferred tax assets are more likely than not to remain unrealized. Our deferred tax assets and related valuation allowances are affected by events and transactions arising in the ordinary course of business, acquisitions of assets and businesses, and non-recurring items. The assessment of the appropriate amount of the valuation allowance against the net deferred tax asset is dependent upon several factors, including estimates of the realization of deferred income tax assets, which realization is primarily based on forecasts of future taxable income. Significant judgment is applied to determine the appropriate amount of valuation allowance to record. Changes in the amount of the valuation allowance required could materially increase or decrease our provision for income taxes in a given period. 9. Litigation and Regulatory Investigations a. We are involved in various legal proceedings in the U.S. and Canada and may experience unfavourable outcomes of such proceedings, or of future proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. We are a defendant in antitrust class actions in the U.S. related to our generic Adalat products as well as our Wellbutrin® XL product. We are also a party to several other actions or may become a party to actions that could similarly impact our business. The above actions are more fully described at Item 3. "Legal Proceedings". In all cases, the resolution of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations or could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. In addition, we may continue to incur expenses associated with our defense of these actions, and the pending actions may divert the efforts and attention of our management team from normal business operations. b. As a public company, we face risks related to class action lawsuits, including threatened litigation. As with any other public company, we may become involved in legal proceedings, including class action securities litigation and derivative lawsuits, which may be brought against us. Court decisions and legislative activity may increase our exposure to any of these types of claims. In some cases, substantial non-economic or punitive damages may be sought against us. We currently maintain insurance coverage for some of these potential liabilities. Other potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute coverage or the amount of insurance may not be enough to cover damages awarded. In addition, certain types of damages may not be covered by insurance, and insurance coverage for all or certain forms of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future. Additionally, the outcome of litigation and other legal matters is always uncertain, and outcomes that are not justified by the evidence can occur. It is possible that an unfavourable resolution of one or more legal matters could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. c. We are subject to exposure relating to product liability claims. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to significant product liability and other claims in the event that the use of our products results, or is alleged to have resulted, in adverse effects. Furthermore, our products may cause, or may appear to have caused, adverse side effects (including death) or potentially dangerous drug interactions that we may not learn about or understand fully until the drug has been administered to patients for 41 Table of Contents some time. As our products are used more widely and in patients with varying medical conditions, the likelihood of an adverse drug reaction, unintended side effect or incidence of misuse may increase. In addition, as part of our specialty CNS strategy, we have turned from a primarily reformulation focused business model to one where we are looking to in-license or acquire compounds, including NCEs. As a result, our product liability exposure is greater than when we focused primarily on reformulation of existing drugs. Product liability claims, regardless of their merits or their ultimate outcomes, are costly, divert management's attention and may adversely affect our reputation and demand for our products and may result in significant damages. Our product liability insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover our claims and we may not be able to obtain sufficient coverage at a reasonable cost in the future. An inability to obtain product liability insurance at an acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the growth of our business or the number of products we can successfully market. The withdrawal of a product following complaints, or a product liability claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. 10. Senior Convertible Notes On June 10, 2009, the Company issued $350.0 million principal amount of senior convertible notes in a private placement (the "Notes"). See Item 5.G. "Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities — Sale of Unregistered Securities" for a description of the Notes. a. We may not be able to refinance the Notes if required or if we so desire. The Notes mature in 2014. We may need or desire to refinance all or a portion of the Notes or any other future indebtedness that we incur on or before the maturity of the Notes or such other indebtedness. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. b. We may incur substantially more debt or take other actions which may affect our ability to satisfy our obligations under the Notes on a net-share settlement basis. We may incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. We will not be restricted under the terms of the Notes or the indenture governing the Notes from incurring any such additional indebtedness, including any secured debt. In addition, the limited covenants applicable to the Notes do not require us to achieve or maintain any minimum financial results relating to our financial position or results of operations. The terms of the Notes do not limit our ability to recapitalize, incur additional debt or take a number of other actions, including repurchasing our common shares. Taking certain of these actions could diminish our ability to execute our stated intention to settle the Notes at maturity on a net-share settlement basis. c. The issuance of a significant number of our common shares upon conversion of the Notes, or the perception of such issuance, could depress the market price of our common shares. We have stated our intention to settle the Notes on a net share basis at their maturity. If we are not able to repay or refinance the principal amount of the Notes at maturity we would be required to settle in shares. The issuance of a substantial number of our common shares in connection with the conversion or settlement of the Notes could depress the market price of our common shares and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We cannot predict the effect that future issuances of our common shares would have on the market price of our common shares. Any transaction involving the issuance of common shares, or securities convertible into common shares, would result in dilution, which could be substantial, to holders of our common shares. 42 Table of Contents 11. Other Company Risks a. If the companies in which we invest, or with which we partner or co-develop products, are not successful, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. Actions by third parties who control the promotion, pricing, trade rebate levels, product availability or other items for products we supply to them could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Economic, governmental, industry and other factors outside our control affect companies with which we may partner or co-develop products. Some of the material risks relating to such companies include: •the ability of these companies to successfully develop, manufacture and obtain necessary governmental approvals for the products which serve as the basis for our investments in, or relationship with, such companies; •the ability of competitors of these companies to develop similar or more effective products, making the products developed by these companies difficult or impossible to market; •the ability of these companies to adequately secure patents for their products and protect their proprietary rights; •the ability of these companies to enter the marketplace without infringing upon competitors' patents or other intellectual property; •the ability of these companies to remain financially solvent; •the ability of these companies to remain technologically competitive; and •the dependence of these companies upon key scientific and managerial personnel. We may have limited or no control over the resources that any such company may devote to develop the products for which we collaborate with them. Any such company may not perform as expected. These companies may breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct product discovery and development activities successfully, or in a timely manner. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. b. Our continued success is dependent on our continued ability to attract and retain key personnel. Any failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. Much of our success to date has resulted from the particular scientific and management skills of personnel available to us. If these individuals are not available, we might not be able to attract or retain employees with similar skills. The continued availability of such individuals is important to our ongoing success. In addition, our success in implementing our specialty CNS strategy is also subject to our ability to further develop and retain competitive in-house R&D expertise in specialty CNS. If we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining key employees, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. c. We may not have sufficient cash and may be limited in our ability to access financing for future expenditures, which may prevent us from executing on our CNS strategy and expanding our business and our portfolio of products. We may in the future need to incur additional debt or issue equity to fund acquisitions and other investments as contemplated by our specialty CNS strategy, to continue to pay dividends under our dividend policy, to fund working capital needs or to support our limited capital expenditure requirements. To the extent we are unable to renew our credit facility at its maturity in June 2012 or, in the interim, access new sources of capital at affordable rates, we may be unable to expand our business. If we raise funds through the issuance of new debt or equity, any debt securities or preferred shares issued may have rights and preferences and privileges 43 Table of Contents senior to those of holders of our Notes and common shares. The terms of any new debt securities may impose restrictions on our operations that may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. If we raise funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt, the proportional ownership interests of our shareholders would be diluted. In addition, we may choose to raise additional funds or, upon its maturity in June 2012, renew our credit facility in order to capitalize on perceived opportunities in the marketplace that may accelerate our growth objectives. Our ability to secure such financing in the future will depend in part on the prevailing capital market conditions as well as our business performance. We may not be successful in our efforts to secure financing, if needed, on terms satisfactory to us. d. The general business and economic conditions in Canada, the U.S. and other countries in which we conduct business could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and capital resources. The market environment, the lack of liquidity in certain markets, the level of activity and volatility in capital markets and the stability of various financial markets may continue to have an impact on the availability of credit and capital in the near term. If uncertainties in these markets continue, or these markets deteriorate, it could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, our ability to raise capital and interest costs. e. The current business and economic conditions, coupled with the current regulatory environment, could have a negative impact on the pharmaceutical industry, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. The current business and economic conditions in the national and global markets may negatively affect our operations in the future. Our revenues are contingent upon our ability to develop, license or otherwise acquire new commercially viable products and obtain associated regulatory approvals in multiple jurisdictions. Recently, companies globally have experienced volatility in the ability and cost to raise capital in the equity and debt markets or through traditional credit markets to fund business activities. In addition, the increased regulatory environment from the FDA has increased the costs of R&D for pharmaceutical companies. For example, on September 27, 2007, the FDAA was enacted, giving the FDA enhanced post-market authority, including the explicit authority to require post-market studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information and compliance with FDA-approved risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. The FDA's exercise of this authority could result in delays or increased costs during product development, clinical trials and regulatory review, increased costs to comply with post-approval regulatory requirements and potential restrictions on sales of approved products. Accordingly, faced with the uncertainty of the availability and cost of raising capital and the potential for increased costs due to regulatory changes, many pharmaceutical companies have recently cut costs, including canceling current clinical trials and not pursuing additional clinical trials. These changes in both the economic and regulatory environments directly affect our business, and, in the event we are unable to conduct necessary R&D activities, our ability to generate revenues could be hindered, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. f. We are exposed to risks relating to currency exchanges. We operate internationally, but a majority of our revenue and expense activities and capital expenditures are denominated in U.S. dollars. Our only other significant transactions are denominated in Canadian dollars and our Canadian dollar expenses may not be entirely offset by our Canadian dollar revenues. We also face minor foreign currency exposure on the translation of our non-U.S. dollar functional operations from their local currencies to the U.S. dollar. As of December 31, 2009, we do not have any outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts. g. We are exposed to risks related to interest rates. The primary objective of our policy for the investment of temporary cash surpluses is the protection of principal and, accordingly, we invest in investment grade securities with varying maturities, but typically less than 44 Table of Contents 90 days. Our credit facility bears interest based on U.S. Dollar London Interbank Offering Rates, U.S. dollar base rate, Canadian dollar prime rate or Canadian dollar bankers' acceptance rates. While we currently do not have any outstanding borrowings under this facility, to the extent we borrow material amounts under this facility in the future, a change in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. As of December 31, 2009, we do not have any outstanding interest rate swap contracts. h. Our securities are subject to price volatility. Stock market trading prices for the securities of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including our own, have historically been highly volatile, and such securities have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. For example, during the 12-month period ended December 31, 2009, the price of our common shares ranged from a low of $9.26 to a high of $15.50 on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"). i. Our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations worldwide could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. We are subject to laws and regulations concerning the environment, safety matters, regulation of chemicals and product safety in the countries where we manufacture and sell our products or otherwise operate our business. These requirements include regulation of the handling, manufacture, transportation, use and disposal of materials, including the discharge of pollutants into the environment. In the normal course of our business, hazardous substances may be released into the environment, which could cause environmental or property damage or personal injuries, and which could subject us to remediation obligations regarding contaminated soil and groundwater or potential liability for damage claims. Under certain laws, we may be required to remediate contamination at certain of our properties regardless of whether the contamination was caused by us or by previous occupants of the property or by others. In recent years, the operations of all companies have become subject to increasingly stringent legislation and regulation related to occupational safety and health, product registration and environmental protection. Such legislation and regulations are complex and constantly changing, and future changes in laws or regulations may require us to install additional controls for certain of our emission sources, to undertake changes in our manufacturing processes or to remediate soil or groundwater contamination at facilities where such cleanup is not currently required. j. Rising insurance costs or our inability to obtain insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. The cost of insurance, including insurance for directors and officers, workers' compensation, property, product liability and general liability insurance, may increase in future years. Such insurance may also become unavailable to us. For example, as a result of the recent settlements in a number of our legacy legal and regulatory proceedings, we will have exhausted our coverage under our Director and Officer liability insurance for claims reported in respect of our 2002-2004 policy period. Rising insurance costs or the inability to obtain insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline. In response to increased costs, we may increase deductibles or decrease certain coverages to mitigate cost increases. These increases, and our increased risk due to increased deductibles and reduced coverages, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 45 Table of Contents k. We are exposed to risks if we are unable to comply with laws and future changes to laws affecting public companies, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("SOX"), and also to increased costs associated with complying with such laws. Any future changes to the laws and regulations affecting public companies, as well as compliance with existing provisions of SOX in the U.S. and Part XXIII.1 of the Securities Act (Ontario), R.S.O. 1990, c. S.5 (the "Ontario Securities Act") and related rules and applicable stock exchange rules and regulations, may cause us to incur increased costs as we evaluate the implications of new rules and respond to new requirements. As we are no longer exempt from certain requirements under the U.S. securities laws and applicable U.S. stock exchange rules and regulations due to the cessation of our status as a foreign private issuer effective January 1, 2010, we are now subject to additional U.S. filing, disclosure and compliance requirements, which may also cause us to incur an increase in costs. Delays, or a failure to comply with any new laws, rules and regulations that apply to us, could result in enforcement actions, the assessment of other penalties and civil suits. New laws and regulations could make it more expensive for us under indemnities we provide to our officers and directors and could make it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including liability insurance for directors and officers; as such, we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on the Board of Directors or as officers. We may be required to hire additional personnel and utilize additional outside legal, accounting and advisory services — all of which could cause our general and administrative costs to increase beyond what we currently have planned. We are continuing to evaluate and monitor developments with respect to these laws, rules and regulations, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. We are required annually to review and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with applicable securities laws. The results of this review are reported in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our MD&A. Our registered public accounting firm is also required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over our financial reporting, there is the possibility of errors or omissions occurring or misrepresentations in our disclosures which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition and the value of our common shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 46 Table of Contents 