Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company’s results from continuing operations and its financial position could be adversely affected in the future by known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which the Company is unable to predict or control. Some of these factors are described in more detail in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the Company’s other filings with the SEC. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems immaterial may also impair its business operations. Should one or more of any of these risks or uncertainties materialize, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The Company has recently implemented a series of operational changes intended to reduce operating expenses. If the changes do not have the intended effects, the Company’s ability to remain in business may be adversely affected. As a result of the decertification of the Model E CBU and the USPS rejection of the Company’s application to manufacture the USPS-B-1118 CBU, the Company has implemented a series of operational changes for the purpose of streamlining operations and lowering costs. These changes include the adoption of lean manufacturing processes and a reduction of administrative costs. These changes will be augmented by a shift in the Company’s business focus to selling value-added niche products (which have higher margins than the USPS licensed CBUs) and improving the Company’s sales and distribution efforts. The operational changes implemented by management assume that certain material changes in the operations of the Company will be sufficient to allow the Company to continue in operation despite the decertification of the Model E CBU by the USPS, the sales of which provided over 30% of the Company’s sales revenues in each of 2006 and 2005. If the operational changes do not adequately reduce the Company’s expenses, the Company’s ability to remain in business would be adversely affected. The Company may not obtain USPS approval to manufacture the new USPS-B-1118 CBU. If approval to manufacture the new CBU is not received, the Company’s results of operations and its business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. On May 8, 2007, the USPS notified the Company that, effective September 8, 2007, the USPS would decertify the Company’s Model E CBU. Sales to the private market of the Model E CBU accounted for 28.4%, 35.6%, and 32.5% of the Company’s sales in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. On November 30, 2007, the Company announced that the USPS had rejected the Company’s application to manufacture the USPS-B-1118 CBU. In rejecting the Company’s application, the USPS cited weaknesses in the Company’s financial and inventory controls that existed in 2005 and 2006. Although the Company remedied most of these weaknesses during the 2007 fiscal year, the USPS noted remedies had not been in place long enough to be subjected to review as part of the Company’s 5 Table of Contents annual audit. Please see Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under Item 9a(T) . However, the USPS did advise the Company that it could resubmit its application within a reasonable period of time. Accordingly, the Company intends to evaluate the feasibility of reapplying to manufacture the USPS-B-1118 CBU at a later time. While the Company intends to shift its business plan to increase its focus on its higher-margin niche products to offset the loss of revenues from the USPS, failure to obtain USPS approval to manufacture the USPS-B-1118 CBU, the Company’s results of operations, business and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. The Company has experienced rising raw materials costs, which it may not be able to successfully mitigate. Inflation in raw material and other prices has become an increasing factor in the general economy, and the Company continues to seek ways to mitigate its impact. For example, the Company experienced significant increases in steel and aluminum prices in 2007 and 2006. To the extent permitted by competition, the Company seeks to mitigate the adverse impact of rising costs of sales through price increases. The Company’s ability to implement price increases is dependent on market conditions, economic factors, raw material costs and availability, competitive factors, operating costs and other factors, some of which are beyond the Company’s control. Further, the benefits of any implemented price increases may be delayed due to manufacturing lead times and the terms of existing contracts. If the Company is not able to successfully mitigate the effects of rising raw materials costs, the Company’s results of operations, business and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. The Company’s business is materially impacted by general economic conditions and the threat of terrorist activity. The Company’s business depends, in part, upon private sales to customers in the housing, travel and other recreational industries. Any decline in general economic conditions in the United States or any heightened threat of terrorist and military actions could adversely affect the Company’s ability (and the ability of its suppliers and customers) to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, as these conditions particularly impact customers of the Company that operate theme parks, resorts and other travel-dependent businesses. As a result, customers could reduce their purchases of the Company’s products or delay the timing of their purchases from the Company, either of which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, business and financial condition. The Company’s future success will depend, in large part, upon its ability to successfully introduce new products. The Company believes that its future success will depend in part upon its ability to develop, manufacture and successfully introduce new products, particularly the USPS-B-1118 CBU. The Company’s ability to successfully develop, introduce and sell new products depends upon a variety of factors, including new product selection, timely and efficient completion of product design and development, timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes and effective sales and marketing initiatives related to the new products. Given the Company’s current financial position, the Company may not have enough capital on hand to develop, manufacture and successfully introduce new products, and a failure to do so or to obtain the necessary capital in order to do so would have a material adverse effect on the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 6 Table of Contents 