D. Risk Factors Investment in shares of our common stock ("Common Shares") involves a degree of risk. These risks should be carefully considered before any investment is made. The following are some of the key risk factors generally associated with our business. However, the risks described below are not the only ones that we face. 2 Table of Contents Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. I. COMPANY-SPECIFIC RISKS 1. Product Development and Commercialization a.Our future revenue growth and profitability are dependent upon our ability to develop, in-license or otherwise acquire new commercially viable products and obtain associated regulatory approvals in multiple jurisdictions. Our failure to do so successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. Our future revenues, profitability and financial condition depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to successfully develop, in-license or otherwise acquire new commercially viable products. New product development is subject to a great deal of uncertainty, risk and expense. Development of pharmaceutical candidates may fail or be terminated at various stages of the research and development ("R&D") process, often after substantial financial and other resources have been invested in their exploration and development. FDA and TPD approval is required before any prescription drug product, including generic drug products, can be sold in the U.S. and Canada, respectively. Other countries may also have similar regulatory approval requirements before products can be sold in those countries. The process of obtaining FDA, TPD and other regulatory approvals to manufacture and market new and generic pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time consuming, costly and largely unpredictable. The timing and cost of obtaining FDA, TPD and other regulatory approvals, or the failure to obtain such approvals, could adversely affect our product introduction plans, business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. Beyond our internal research and development efforts, we rely, and in the future may continue to rely, on the acquisition, in-licensing or other access to products or technologies from third-party drug-development companies. See Item 4.B, "Information on the Company — Business Overview — Development Strategy for Specialty CNS — Research and Development", for a discussion of our recent efforts with third-party drug-development companies. Supplementing our product portfolio in this manner requires the commitment of substantial effort and expense in seeking out, evaluating and negotiating collaboration agreements. In addition, product in-licensing involves inherent risks, including uncertainties due to matters that may affect the successful development or commercialization of the in-licensed product, as well as the possibility of contractual disagreements with regard to terms such as license scope or termination rights. Competition for attractive product opportunities is intense and may require us to devote substantial resources, both human and financial, to an opportunity that may not result in a successfully developed, or commercialized, product. b.Our New Strategic Focus targets unmet medical needs for specialty CNS disorders. A failure in our efforts to develop or enhance our existing specialty CNS products, to in-license or acquire specialty CNS compounds in late-stage development or to commercialize any specialty CNS compounds that we develop or acquire could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. On May 7, 2008, we announced our New Strategic Focus, which focuses on specialty CNS as our product development and acquisition strategy. See Item 4.B, "Information on the Company — Business Overview — New Strategic Focus", for a description of the New Strategic Focus. Accordingly, we currently anticipate that from 2008 through 2012, we will invest $600 million in research and development, which, in addition to primary R&D, includes in-licensing and milestone payments but excludes acquisition costs (such as those incurred in connection with the Prestwick transaction). Such investment is for the exploration, further development and regulatory approval of niche in-licensed products and new chemical entities ("NCEs"), new indications, and in-house reformulation opportunities in the specialty CNS disorder market. Our success in implementing this New Strategic Focus is subject to a number of risks, including: •our ability to identify, evaluate and acquire high priority compounds; •our ability to further develop competitive in-house research and development expertise in specialty CNS; 3 Table of Contents •our ability to further develop competitive commercial expertise in specialty CNS; and •our ability to successfully commercialize, with or without capable commercialization partners, any CNS compounds that we develop, in-license or acquire. In addition, the implementation of these strategies may cause disruptions to our ongoing business, including relationships with our personnel, suppliers and partners. We may not be successful in the commercialization of new specialty CNS products, which are dependent on finding commercialization partners or on developing the necessary in-house sales capability. While specialty CNS products generally exhibit favourable reimbursement and pricing characteristics, there is a risk that final pricing models may require us to make reimbursements beyond the level anticipated in our business model. The failure to successfully implement our New Strategic Focus may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. c.Our approved products may not achieve or maintain expected levels of market acceptance, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. Even if we are able to obtain regulatory approvals for our new pharmaceutical products, generic or branded, the success of those products is dependent upon achieving and maintaining market acceptance. New product candidates that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or may have only limited or no commercial success. Levels of market acceptance for our new products could be impacted by several factors, many of which are not within our control, including but not limited to: •safety, efficacy, convenience and cost-effectiveness of our products compared to products of our competitors; •scope of approved uses and marketing approval; •timing of market approvals and market entry; •difficulty in, or excessive costs to, manufacture; •infringement or alleged infringement of the patents or intellectual property rights of others; •availability of alternative products from our competitors; •acceptance of the price of our products; and •ability to market our products effectively at the retail level. In addition, the success of any new product will depend on our ability to either successfully build our in-house sales capabilities or to secure third-party marketing or distribution partners in the U.S. Seeking out, evaluating and negotiating marketing or distribution agreements may involve the commitment of substantial time and effort and may not ultimately result in an agreement. In addition, our current structure, which is dependent on our in-house sales capabilities or third-party marketing or distribution partners, may make us less attractive to third-party marketers, distributors and licensors of new products, and this may affect our ability to secure such partners. If we are unable to commercialize new products successfully, whether through a failure to achieve market acceptance, a failure to build our own in-house sales capabilities or a failure to secure marketing partners, there may be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and it could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. As a condition to granting marketing approval of a product, the FDA may require a company to conduct additional clinical trials. The results generated in these trials could result in the subsequent loss of marketing approval, changes in product labeling or new or increased concerns about side effects or efficacy of a product. On September 27, 2007, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 ("FDAA") was enacted, giving the FDA enhanced post-market authority, including the explicit authority to require post-market studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information and compliance with FDA-approved risk 4 Table of Contents evaluation and mitigation strategies. The FDA's exercise of this new authority could result in delays or increased costs during product development, clinical trials and regulatory review, increased costs to comply with new post-approval regulatory requirements and potential restrictions on sales of approved products. Post-marketing studies, whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or undertaken voluntarily, and other emerging data about marketed products, such as adverse event reports, may also adversely affect sales of our products. Such studies, which increasingly employ sophisticated methods and techniques, may call into question the utilization, safety and efficacy of previously marketed products. In some cases, studies may result in the discontinuance of product marketing or the need for risk management programs. In addition, government agencies may determine that a product should be scheduled as a controlled substance, as is currently being proposed by Health Canada under the Controlled Drugs and Substances Act (the "CDSA") for our tramadol products. If one of our products is scheduled under the CDSA, such regulation would reduce practitioner prescriptions for such product, which may lead to a reduction in revenues from such product. Such regulation may also increase the costs of manufacturing and distributing such product in order to meet the regulatory requirements applicable to controlled substances, such as process upgrades and renovations required at our facilities and changes to our manufacturing, storage and transportation practices. Further, the discovery of significant problems with a product similar to one of our products that implicate (or are perceived to implicate) an entire class of products could have an adverse effect on sales of the affected products. Accordingly, new data about our products, or products similar to our products, could negatively impact demand for our products due to real or perceived side effects or uncertainty regarding efficacy and, in some cases, could result in product withdrawal. These situations, should they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. d.We will not be able to commercialize our pipeline products if our preclinical studies do not produce successful results or if our clinical trials do not demonstrate safety and efficacy in humans. We must conduct extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy in humans of our pipeline products in order to obtain regulatory approval for the sale of our pipeline products. Preclinical studies and clinical trials are expensive, can take many years and have uncertain outcomes. Our success will depend on the success of our clinical trials. It can take several years to complete the clinical trials of a product, and a failure of one or more of our clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. We believe that the development of each of our pipeline products involves significant risks at each stage of testing. If clinical trial difficulties and failures arise, our pipeline products may never be approved for sale or become commercially viable. We do not believe that any of our pipeline products have alternative uses if we are not successful in developing them as pharmaceutical products. There are a number of difficulties and risks associated with clinical trials. These difficulties and risks may result in the failure to receive regulatory approval to continue to test or to sell our pipeline products or the inability to commercialize any of our pipeline products. For instance, we may discover that a pipeline product does not exhibit the expected therapeutic results in humans, may cause harmful side effects or have other unexpected characteristics that may delay or preclude regulatory approval or limit commercial use if approved. The risk of clinical trial failure is even greater where the pipeline product contains a new chemical entity, and where the pipeline product uses a novel or not fully known mechanism of action. Likewise, the risk of discovering harmful side effects is greater where the pipeline product contains a new chemical entity. In addition, the possibility exists that: •the results from early clinical trials may not be statistically significant or predictive of results that will be obtained from expanded, advanced clinical trials; •institutional review boards or regulators, including the FDA and TPD, may hold, suspend or terminate our clinical research or the clinical trials of our pipeline products for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements or if, in their opinion, the participating subjects are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; 5 Table of Contents •subjects may drop out of our clinical trials; •our preclinical studies or clinical trials may produce negative, inconsistent or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical studies or clinical trials; and •the cost of our clinical trials may be greater than we currently anticipate. If we do not receive regulatory approval to sell our pipeline products or cannot successfully commercialize our pipeline products, we would not be able to generate revenues in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. e.If our clinical trials for our pipeline products are delayed, we may be unable to commercialize our pipeline products on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. Planned clinical trials may not begin on time, may take longer to complete than anticipated, or may need to be restructured after they have begun. Clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays related to: •obtaining an effective investigational new drug application, or Investigational New Drug Application ("IND"), or regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; •identifying and engaging a sufficient number of clinical trial sites; •negotiating acceptable clinical trial agreement terms with prospective trial sites; •obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; •recruiting qualified subjects to participate in clinical trials in a timely manner; •competition in recruiting clinical investigators; •shortage or lack of availability of supplies of drugs for clinical trials; •the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive results or poorly executed testing; •the placement of a clinical hold on a study; •the failure of third parties conducting and overseeing the operations of our clinical trials to perform their contractual or regulatory obligations in a timely fashion; and •exposure of clinical trial subjects to unexpected and unacceptable health risks or noncompliance with regulatory requirements, which may result in suspension of the trial. Our pipeline products have significant milestones to reach, including the successful completion of clinical trials, before commercialization. If we experience significant delays in or termination of clinical trials, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our pipeline products or any other products that we may develop will be adversely impacted. In addition, our product development costs would increase and our ability to generate revenue could be impaired. f.A relatively small group of products represents a significant portion of our revenues, gross profit and earnings from time to time. If the volume or pricing of any of these products declines or the costs of related manufacturing, distribution or marketing increase, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. Sales of a limited number of our products represent a significant portion of our revenues, gross profit and earnings. As the volume or pricing of our existing significant products declines in the future, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected and this could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. The genericization of our existing products is one of the reasons for the current or continued decline in volume and pricing of our products. For example, the genericization in 6 Table of Contents 2008 of Wellbutrin® XL has resulted in and may continue to result in a decline in the volume and pricing of this product. In 2008, sales of Wellbutrin® XL decreased by 43% or approximately $92 million, as compared to 2007. Following the initial pricing and volume impact of genericization, pricing and volume may either decrease further or increase dependent upon market and competitive conditions. In addition, if this or any of our other key products were to become subject to any other issues, such as material adverse changes in prescription growth rates, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, material product liability litigation, publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence or pressure from competitive products, the adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and market value of our Common Shares could be significant. g.A significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales to a limited number of customers. Any significant reduction of business with any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. In 2008, our five largest customers, McKesson Corporation, GSK, Cardinal Health, Inc., Teva Pharmaceuticals Industries Ltd. ("Teva") and OMI (now known as PriCara, a division of Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc.), accounted for 22%, 16%, 16%, 11% and 11%, respectively, of our total revenues. Any significant reduction or loss of business with one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. h.We have entered into distribution agreements with other companies to distribute certain of our generic products in exchange for payments based on sales. Declines in the pricing and/or volume, over which we have no control, of such generic products, and therefore the amounts paid to us, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. Our portfolio of generic products is the subject of various agreements, pursuant to which we manufacture and sell generic products to other companies, which distribute such products in the U.S. and Canada and make payments to us, typically based on net sales. These companies make all distribution and pricing decisions independently of Biovail. If the pricing and/or volume of such generic products declines, our revenues could be adversely impacted which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. 2. Intellectual Property a.We may be unable to effectively protect our intellectual and other proprietary property, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. The pharmaceutical industry historically has generated substantial litigation concerning the manufacture, use and sale of products and we expect this litigation activity to continue. Generic drug manufacturers seek to sell and, in a number of cases have sold generic versions of many of our most important products prior to the expiration of our patents, and have exhibited a readiness to do so for other products in the future. As a result, we expect that patents related to our products will be routinely challenged, and our patents may not be upheld. If we are not successful in defending an attack on our patents and maintaining exclusive rights to market one or more of our major products still under patent protection, we could lose a significant portion of sales in a very short period, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. See Item 4.B, "Information on the Company — Business Overview — Patents and Proprietary Rights", for more information on our intellectual property rights and Item 4, "Information on the Company — Legal Proceedings — Intellectual Property", for a discussion of intellectual property-related proceedings in which we are involved. In addition, we rely on trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information to provide additional legal protection to various aspects of our business, including information about our formulations, manufacturing methods and analytical procedures, as well as information contained in our Company documents and regulatory filings. Although we require our employees and other vendors and suppliers to sign confidentiality agreements, 7 Table of Contents we may not have adequate remedies in the event of a breach of these confidentiality agreements. Furthermore, the trade secrets and proprietary technology upon which we rely may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors without infringing upon any proprietary technology. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability in the future to protect those trade secrets and other proprietary information. The cost of responding to challenges to our patents and the inherent costs to defend the validity of our patents, including the prosecution of infringements and the related litigation, and to protect our other intellectual property could be substantial and could preclude or delay commercialization of products. Such litigation could also require a substantial commitment of our management's time. b.We may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability in the future to obtain patents and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. Our competitors may have filed patent applications, or hold issued patents, relating to products or processes competitive with those we are developing. The patents of our competitors may impair our ability to do business in a particular area. In the event we discover that we may be infringing third-party patents or other intellectual property rights, we may not be able to obtain licenses from those third parties on commercially attractive terms or at all. We may have to defend against charges that we violated patents or the proprietary rights of third parties. Litigation is costly and time-consuming, and diverts the attention of our management and technical personnel. In addition, if we infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could lose our right to develop, manufacture or sell products, including our generic products, or could be required to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. An adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or a failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. See Item 4, "Information on the Company — Legal Proceedings — Intellectual Property", for a discussion of intellectual property-related proceedings in which we are involved. 3. Income Tax a.Our effective tax rates may increase. We have operations in various countries that have differing tax laws and rates. A significant portion of our revenue and income is earned in Barbados, which has low domestic tax rates. Dividends from such after-tax business income are received tax-free in Canada. Our tax structure is supported by current domestic tax laws in the countries in which we operate and the application of tax treaties between the various countries in which we operate. Our income tax reporting is subject to audit by domestic and foreign authorities. Our effective tax rate may change from year to year based on changes in the mix of activities and income allocated or earned among the different jurisdictions in which we operate; changes in tax laws in these jurisdictions; changes in the tax treaties between various countries in which we operate; changes in our eligibility for benefits under those tax treaties; and changes in the estimated values of deferred tax assets and liabilities. Such changes could result in an increase in the effective tax rate on all or a portion of our income to a rate possibly exceeding the statutory income tax rate of Canada or the U.S. See Item 4.B, "Information on the Company — Business Overview — Taxation". Our provision for income taxes is based on certain estimates and assumptions made by management. Our consolidated income tax rate is affected by the amount of net income earned in our various operating jurisdictions, the availability of benefits under tax treaties, and the rates of taxes payable in respect of that income. We enter into many transactions and arrangements in the ordinary course of business in respect of which the tax treatment is not entirely certain. We must therefore make estimates and judgments based on our knowledge and understanding of applicable tax laws and tax treaties, and the application of those tax laws and tax treaties to our business, in determining our consolidated tax provision. For example, certain countries could seek to tax a greater share of income than has been provided for by us. The final outcome of any audits by 8 Table of Contents taxation authorities may differ from the estimates and assumptions we have used in determining our consolidated tax provisions and accruals. This could result in a material adverse effect on our consolidated income tax provision, financial condition and the net income for the period in which such determinations are made. We have recorded a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets primarily relating to a portion of our U.S. operating losses, our Canadian operating losses, Scientific Research and Experimental Development pool, investment tax credit carryforward balances, provisions for legal settlements, and future tax depreciation. We have assumed that the deferred tax assets in respect of our Canadian operating losses, Scientific Research and Experimental Development pool and investment tax credit are more likely than not to remain unrealized. Our deferred tax assets and related valuation allowances are affected by events and transactions arising in the ordinary course of business, acquisitions of assets and businesses, and non-recurring items. The assessment of the appropriate amount of the valuation allowance against the net deferred tax asset is dependent upon several factors, including estimates of the realization of deferred income tax assets, which realization is primarily based on forecasts of future taxable income. Significant judgment is applied to determine the appropriate amount of valuation allowance to record. Changes in the amount of the valuation allowance required could materially increase or decrease our provision for income taxes in a given period. 4. Marketing, Manufacturing and Supply a.Manufacturing difficulties or delays may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. Our manufacturing and other processes use complicated and sophisticated equipment, which sometimes requires a significant amount of time to obtain and install. Manufacturing complexity, testing requirements and safety and security processes combine to increase the overall difficulty of manufacturing these products and resolving manufacturing problems that we may encounter. Although we endeavor to properly maintain our equipment, including through on-site quality control and experienced manufacturing supervision, and have key spare parts on hand, our business could suffer if certain manufacturing or other equipment, or a portion of our facilities, were to become inoperable for a period of time. This could occur for various reasons, including catastrophic events, such as hurricanes, earthquakes or other natural disasters, explosions, environmental accidents, equipment failures or delays in obtaining components or replacements, construction delays or defects and other events, both within and outside of our control. In addition, for certain of our products, we do not have a secondary or back-up manufacturing facility in place to assist with these manufacturing and other processes should any of these events occur. The closure of our Puerto Rico facilities, which we intend to close in 2010, will concentrate all of our in-house manufacturing at our Steinbach, Manitoba facility. Any interruption in our manufacture of high-volume products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. b.Even if we obtain regulatory approvals, our marketed drugs will be subject to ongoing regulatory review. If we fail to comply with continuing U.S. and Canadian regulations, we could lose our marketing approvals, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. Following initial regulatory approval of any drugs we or our partners may develop, we will be subject to continuing regulatory review by the FDA and the TPD, including the review of adverse drug events and clinical results that are reported after product candidates become commercially available. This may include results from any post-marketing follow-up studies or other reporting required as a condition to approval. The manufacturing, labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, promotion, reporting and recordkeeping related to the product will also be subject to extensive ongoing regulatory requirements. In addition, incidents of adverse drug reactions ("ADRs"), unintended side effects or misuse relating to our products could result in additional regulatory controls or restrictions, or even lead to withdrawal of a product from the market. Similarly, our Contract Research Division ("CRD") operations could suffer a loss of business or be subject to liability should a serious ADR occur during the course of their conduct of a study. 9 Table of Contents All products manufactured by us or for us by third-party manufacturers must be made in a manner consistent with FDA-mandated and TPD-mandated good manufacturing practices ("GMP"). Compliance with GMP regulations requires substantial expenditures of time, money and effort in such areas as production, quality control and quality assurance to ensure full technical, facility and system compliance. The FDA, TPD and other regulatory authorities inspect on a regular basis our and our third-party manufacturers' manufacturing facilities for compliance. Failure to comply with GMP regulations could occur for various reasons, including failure of a product to meet or maintain specifications, stability issues or unexpected trends in patient ADRs. If the regulatory agencies were to require one of our or our third-party manufacturers' manufacturing facilities to cease or limit production, our business could be adversely affected, in part because regulatory approval to manufacture a drug is generally site-specific. The closure of our Puerto Rico facilities, which we intend to close in 2010, will concentrate all of our in-house manufacturing at our Steinbach, Manitoba facility. Delay and cost in obtaining regulatory approval to manufacture at a different facility also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. In addition, if we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, our business could be seriously harmed because a regulatory agency may: •issue warning letters; •suspend or withdraw our regulatory approval for approved or in-market products; •seize or detain products or recommend a product recall; •refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us; •suspend any of our ongoing clinical trials; •impose restrictions or obligations on our operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; •close our facilities or those of our contract manufacturers; or •impose civil or criminal penalties. Under certain circumstances, the FDA and TPD also have the authority to revoke previously granted drug approvals. These policies may change and additional U.S. or Canadian federal, provincial, state or local governmental regulations or foreign governmental regulations may be enacted that could affect our ability to maintain compliance. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse governmental regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action. If we or our third-party manufacturers were deemed to be deficient regarding regulatory compliance in any significant way, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and it could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. c.If we are unable to optimize the use of or expand our manufacturing facilities or secure cost-effective third-party manufacturing arrangements in a timely manner, we may be unable to meet market demand for our products, which could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. We have, in past years, operated some of our manufacturing facilities on a 24-hour-a-day, seven-day-a-week production cycle to meet the market demand for current in-market products and anticipated product launches. Successfully operating on that basis and meeting the anticipated market demand requires minimal equipment failures and product rejections. In addition, we manufacture products that employ a variety of technology platforms. Some of our manufacturing facilities may, at times, be scheduled in excess of rated capacity, while others may be under-utilized. Unless our manufacturing processes are optimized or our manufacturing facilities are expanded where appropriate, or we secure cost-effective third-party manufacturing arrangements in a timely manner, we may have difficulty fulfilling all demand for new large volume products, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, if we are required to expand any of our facilities, it may require significant capital investment. If we are unable to complete any expansion projects in a 10 Table of Contents timely and cost-efficient manner or adequately equip the expanded facilities in a timely and cost-effective manner or we experience delays in receiving FDA and TPD approvals for these expanded facilities, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. d.Disruptions of delivery of our products could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. The supply of our products to our customers is subject to and dependent upon the use of transportation services. Disruption of transportation services could adversely impact our financial results. In addition, our manufacturing facilities are located outside the continental U.S. and most of our sales are within the U.S. We also purchase products from third parties outside the U.S. As such, any change in policy or policy implementation relating to U.S. border controls may have an adverse impact on our access to the U.S. marketplace that, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. e.If we are unable to obtain components or raw materials, or products supplied by third parties, our ability to manufacture and deliver our products to the market may be impeded, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. Some components and raw materials used in our manufactured products, and some products sold by us, are currently available only from one or a limited number of domestic or foreign suppliers. Such suppliers must be qualified in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements and the process of qualifying a supplier can be costly and time consuming. In the event an existing supplier becomes unavailable through business interruption or financial insolvency or loses its regulatory status as an approved source and we do not have a second supplier, we will attempt to locate a qualified alternative; however, we may be unable to obtain the required components, raw materials or products on a timely basis or at commercially reasonable prices. A prolonged interruption in the supply of a single-sourced raw material, including the active ingredient ("API"), or finished product or the occurrence of quality deficiencies in the products which our suppliers provide could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and the market value of our Common Shares could decline. Our arrangements with foreign suppliers are subject to certain additional risks, including the availability of government clearances, export duties, transport issues, political instability, currency fluctuations and restrictions on the transfer of funds. Arrangements with international raw material suppliers are subject to, among other things, FDA and TPD regulation, various import duties and required government clearances. Acts of governments outside the U.S. and Canada may affect the price or availability of raw materials needed for the development or manufacture of our products. The degree of impact such a situation could have would, in part, depend on the product affected and, as such, interruption of supply for Ultram® ER would have a more significant adverse impact than the interruption of supply of a less important product. In addition, we rely on third-party manufacturers to supply certain products that we market and/or distribute, including Cardizem® CD, Vasotec®, Vaseretic®, Zovirax®, Ativan®, Wellbutrin® SR, Zyban®, Glumetza® 500 mg, Isordil®, Xenazine® and Nitoman®. Our manufacturers may suffer an interruption, including due to manufacturing or shipping problems, financial insolvency, regulatory inspections or difficulty in sourcing components or raw materials or financial insolvency. We are also vulnerable to a supply interruption should we be unable to renew or replace, or successfully transfer, such supply arrangements when our current agreements with our third-party manufacturers expire, in which case we may experience an interruption in our supply. Any such supply interruption could have an adverse impact on our operations. f.Delays or transition issues arising from closure of our Puerto Rico manufacturing facilities may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. In support of the implementation of our New Strategic Focus, we are consolidating our manufacturing resources through the closure of our two Puerto Rico manufacturing facilities and the transfer of certain 11 Table of Contents manufacturing processes to our Steinbach, Manitoba facility. If we experience a delay in transitioning such manufacturing processes to Steinbach, or if we experience other disruptions or issues in transitioning these manufacturing processes to Steinbach, we could fail to deliver our products in a timely manner, which could adversely affect our relationships with our customers and business partners, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. 5. Litigation and Regulatory Investigations a.We are involved in various legal proceedings in the U.S. and Canada and may experience unfavorable outcomes of such proceedings, or of future proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. We are involved in the following class actions in the U.S.: •Antitrust Class Actions — We are a defendant in several antitrust class actions in the U.S. related to our Tiazac® and generic Adalat products as well as our Wellbutrin® XL product. •U.S. Securities Class Action — We, along with several of our officers and former officers, have been named in a securities class action lawsuit has been filed in the U.S. District Court of the Southern District of New York which relates to statements alleged to have been made by us in respect of Aplenzin™ (bupropion hydrobromide tablets) during the product's U.S. regulatory approval process. We are also a party to several other actions or may become a party to actions that could similarly impact our business. The above actions are more fully described at Item 4, "Information on the Company — Legal Proceedings". In all cases, the resolution of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations or could cause the market price of our Common Shares to decline. In addition, we may continue to incur expenses associated with our defense of these actions, and the pending actions may divert the efforts and attention of our management team from normal business operations. b.We could be subject to fines, penalties or other sanctions as a result of ongoing investigations and inquiries by the U.S. Attorney's office for the Eastern District of New York (the "EDNY"). We have been the subject of an investigation by the EDNY into our accounting and financial disclosure practices that occurred between 2001 and March 2004, certain transactions associated with a corporate entity acquired by the Company in 2002 and the trading and ownership of our Common Shares. The above investigation is more fully described at Item 4, "Information on the Company — Legal Proceedings — Governmental and Regulatory Inquiries". We cannot predict the outcome or timing of the resolution of this governmental investigation. Should this investigation reach adverse conclusions, we or our former officers and directors could be subject to fines, penalties or criminal sanctions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations or could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. During 2008 we settled an investigation by the SEC, and on January 9, 2009 we settled an investigation by the Ontario Securities Commission (the "OSC"), relating generally to the same matters being investigated by the EDNY. Four individuals, including former officers and a director, remain under investigation by the SEC and one of these individuals remains under investigation by the OSC, relating generally to the same matters being investigated by the EDNY. We are indemnifying those individuals for legal expenses in accordance with indemnification agreements. In addition, as a result of the recent settlements in a number of legal and regulatory proceedings, we will have exhausted our coverage under our Director and Officer liability insurance for claims reported in respect of our 2002-2004 policy period. This may result in an increase in amounts payable by us in connection with the investigations described above or any other existing or new matters for such period. 12 Table of Contents c.We could be subject to counterclaims or other suits in response to actions we have initiated or may initiate, including our complaint against various parties alleging a stock market manipulation scheme. From time to time, we initiate actions or file counterclaims. We could be subject to counterclaims or other suits in response to actions we initiate. For example, on February 22, 2006, we filed a lawsuit, seeking $4.6 billion in damages, from 22 defendants who, the complaint alleges, participated in a stock market manipulation scheme. For further details related to this matter, see Item 4, "Information on the Company — Legal Proceedings — Biovail Action Against S.A.C. and Others". The defendants in this complaint may file counterclaims or take other actions in their defense that may require us to respond, which would require us to incur additional expense and could result in our payment of damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and which could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. We cannot reasonably predict the outcome of these proceedings, some of which could involve the payment of significant legal fees and damages. 6. Dividend Policy a.The payment of dividends will depend on various factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our current dividend policy contemplates quarterly dividends of $0.375 per Common Share to our shareholders. The declaration and payment of dividends, if any, is always subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors. The amount of future cash flows generated by the Company may not be sufficient to support the payment of dividends, whether in accordance with the current dividend policy or otherwise. In addition, we currently intend to give business development activities designed to accelerate our plans under our New Strategic Focus first priority for use of our cash flows. As a result, the amount of cash available for dividend payments could be reduced. Our ability to pay dividends, and the actual amounts of the dividends, will be dependent on numerous factors, including but not limited to: •our profitability; •our prioritization of business development activities, including acquisitions, as contemplated by our New Strategic Focus; •fluctuations in working capital, research and development and capital and operating expenditure requirements; •the sustainability of margins; •payment of income taxes; •quarterly variations in operating results; •obligations under applicable credit facilities; •availability of debt and equity financing; •fines or litigation settlement payments; •changes in the market price of the products we develop; •restrictions in debt instruments; •trends in the biotechnology and pharmaceuticals industry and the markets in which we operate; •current events affecting the economic situation generally in Canada, Barbados and the U.S.; or •applicable laws, many of which are beyond our control and all of which are susceptible to a number of risks and other factors beyond our control. 13 Table of Contents b.Our dividend policy may have an impact on our payment of capital and operating expenditures and our liquidity and capital requirements, our deficit and our ability to execute our New Strategic Focus. The dividend payments contemplated under the dividend policy may increase our deficit or make the payment of capital and operating expenditures, including those required by us to execute on our strategy, dependent on increased cash flow or additional financing in the future. Lack of, or inability to access, those funds could limit our future growth and our ability to execute on our strategy. As a result of payments of dividends under our dividend policy, we may in the future need to draw on our existing credit facility, issue new debt or issue equity to maintain the payment of dividends. We may be unable to obtain new debt financing or renew our existing credit facility at its maturity in 2010 or execute either on terms affordable to us or to otherwise raise new capital, and, as a result, we may be unable to continue to pay dividends. If we are only able to raise funds on less favorable and/or more restrictive terms, this may have a material adverse effect on our revenues, financial condition and results of operations. If we raise funds through the issuance of debt or equity, any debt securities or preferred shares issued may have rights and preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our Common Shares. The terms of the debt securities may impose restrictions on our operations that may have an adverse impact on our financial condition. If we raise funds through the issuance of equity, the proportional ownership interests of our shareholders could be diluted. 7. Other Company Risks a.If the companies in which we invest, or with which we partner or co-develop products, are not successful, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. Actions by third parties who control the promotion, pricing, trade rebate levels, product availability or other items for products we supply to them could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. For example, with our acquisition of Prestwick Pharmaceuticals Inc. ("Prestwick") in September 2008, we rely on Ovation Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ("Ovation") to commercialize and market Xenazine® (tetrabenazine) in the U.S. As a further example, we rely on OMI (now known as PriCara, a division of Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) to commercialize our product Ultram® ER (tramadol) in the U.S. which we manufacture and supply to them. Economic, governmental, industry and other factors outside our control affect companies with which we may partner or co-develop products. Some of the material risks relating to such companies include: •the ability of these companies to successfully develop, manufacture and obtain necessary governmental approvals for the products which serve as the basis for our investments in, or relationship with, such companies; •the ability of competitors of these companies to develop similar or more effective products, making the products developed by these companies difficult or impossible to market; •the ability of these companies to adequately secure patents for their products and protect their proprietary rights; •the ability of these companies to enter the marketplace without infringing upon competitors' patents or other intellectual property; •the ability of these companies to remain financially solvent; •the ability of these companies to remain technologically competitive; and •the dependence of these companies upon key scientific and managerial personnel. We may have limited or no control over the resources that any such company may devote to develop the products for which we collaborate with them. Any such company may not perform as expected. These companies may breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct product discovery and development activities successfully, or in a timely manner. The occurrence of any of these events could have a 14 Table of Contents material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. b.If we are unable to successfully complete strategic in-licensing agreements or acquisitions as contemplated by our New Strategic Focus, or are unable to integrate or develop businesses or products we may in-license or acquire, we may not be able to successfully implement our current strategies to grow our business and our future revenues and operating results may suffer. We pursue product or business licenses or acquisitions that could complement or expand our business. However, we may not be able to execute appropriate licenses or acquisitions in the future and, accordingly, we may not be able to grow our business successfully. In addition, future licenses or acquisitions involve known and unknown risks that could adversely affect our future revenues and operating results. For example: •we may fail to identify product licenses or acquisitions that enable us to execute our business strategy; •we may compete with others to license products or acquire products or companies in an increasingly competitive market with decreased availability of, or increased prices for, suitable license or acquisition candidates; •we may be unable to successfully negotiate the terms of any license or acquisition or finance any such licenses or acquisitions; •we may not be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, including the approval of antitrust and competition regulatory bodies, in countries where we are seeking to consummate licenses or acquisitions; •we may ultimately fail to consummate a license or acquisition even if we announce that we plan to make such license or acquisition; •potential licenses or acquisitions may divert management's attention away from our existing products and business, resulting in the loss of key customers or personnel and exposing us to unanticipated liabilities; •we may fail to successfully integrate licensed products or acquisitions into our existing products and business; •we may not be able to retain the skilled employees and experienced management that may be necessary to operate the businesses or products we license or acquire and, if we cannot retain such personnel, we may not be able to attract new skilled employees and experienced management to replace them; •we may acquire a company or license a product that has contingent liabilities that include, among others, known or unknown intellectual property, Federal Trade Commission or product liability claims or suits; and •we may indemnify a counterparty to a license or acquisition transaction against liabilities relating to taxes and consequently may be subject to tax-related liabilities in respect of an acquired company or license materially in excess of our reserves. Furthermore, any acquisition funded through forfeiture of our dividends could cause the market value of our Common Share to decline. Finally, any acquisition funded through debt is exposed to the refinancing of that debt in 2010; refinancing might not be available or may only be available at very high rates. c.We may not be able to successfully divest or monetize certain of our non-core business assets, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. As part of our New Strategic Focus, we intend to divest or monetize certain of our non-core business assets. We may fail to realize the anticipated proceeds in connection with such divestiture and monetization efforts, and such failure may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. 15 Table of Contents d.Our continued success is dependent on our continued ability to attract and retain key personnel. Any failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. Much of our success to date has resulted from the particular scientific and management skills of personnel available to us. If these individuals are not available, we might not be able to attract or retain employees with similar skills. The continued availability of such individuals is important to our ongoing success. If we are unsuccessful in retaining key employees, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. e.We may not have sufficient cash and may be limited in our ability to access financing for future capital requirements, which may prevent us from expanding our business and our portfolio of products. We may in the future need to incur additional debt or issue equity to satisfy working capital and capital expenditure requirements, as well as to make acquisitions and other investments, to continue to pay dividends under our dividend policy or to acquire Common Shares under our share repurchase program. To the extent we are unable to renew our existing credit facility or raise new capital, we may be unable to expand our business. If we raise funds through the issuance of new debt or equity, any debt securities or preferred shares issued may have rights and preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our Common Shares. The terms of the debt securities may impose restrictions on our operations that may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. If we raise funds through the issuance of equity, the proportional ownership interests of our shareholders could be diluted. In addition, we may choose to raise additional funds or, upon its maturity in 2010, renew our existing credit facility in order to capitalize on perceived opportunities in the marketplace that may accelerate our growth objectives. Our ability to secure such financing in the future will depend in part on the prevailing capital market conditions as well as our business performance. We may not be successful in our efforts to secure financing, if needed, on terms satisfactory to us. f.The recent deterioration in the global credit and capital markets could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and capital resources. The credit and capital markets have experienced significant deterioration in 2008, including the failure of a number of significant and established financial institutions in the U.S. and abroad, and may continue to deteriorate in 2009, all of which will have an impact on the availability of credit and capital in the near term. If uncertainties in these markets continue, or these markets deteriorate further, it could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and our ability to raise capital. g.The current economic downturn, coupled with the current regulatory environment, could have a negative impact on the pharmaceutical industry, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. The recent economic downturn and adverse conditions in the national and global markets may negatively affect our operations in the future. Our revenues are contingent upon our ability to develop, license or otherwise acquire new commercially viable products and obtain associated regulatory approvals in multiple jurisdictions. Recently, companies in the pharmaceutical industry have found it difficult to raise capital in the equity and debt markets or through traditional credit markets to fund research and development. In addition, the increased regulatory environment from the FDA has increased the costs of research and development for pharmaceutical companies. For example, on September 27, 2007, the FDAA was enacted, giving the FDA enhanced post-market authority, including the explicit authority to require post-market studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information and compliance with FDA-approved risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. The FDA's exercise of this new authority could result in delays or increased costs during product development, clinical trials and regulatory review, increased costs to comply with new post-approval regulatory requirements and potential restrictions on sales of approved products. Accordingly, faced with the difficulty of raising capital and the potential for increased costs due to regulatory changes, many pharmaceutical companies have recently cut costs, including canceling current clinical trials and not pursuing additional clinical trials. These changes in 16 Table of Contents both the economic and regulatory environments directly affect our business, and, in the event we are unable to conduct necessary research and development activities, our ability to generate revenues could be hindered, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. h.We are exposed to risks relating to currency exchanges. We operate internationally, but a majority of our revenue and expense activities and capital expenditures are denominated in U.S. dollars. Our only other significant transactions are denominated in Canadian dollars and our Canadian dollar expenses may not be entirely offset by our Canadian dollar revenues. We also face foreign currency exposure on the translation of our non-U.S. dollar functional operations from their local currencies to the U.S. dollar. A 50% change in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or cash flows. As of December 31, 2008, we do not have any outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge against foreign currency risk. i.We may be exposed in the future to risks related to interest rates. The primary objective of our policy for the investment of temporary cash surpluses is the protection of principal and, accordingly, we invest in investment grade securities with varying maturities, but typically less than 90 days. Our credit facility bears interest based on London Interbank Offering Rates, U.S. dollar base rate, Canadian dollar prime rate or Canadian dollar bankers' acceptance rates. While we currently do not have any outstanding borrowings under this facility, to the extent we borrow material amounts under this facility in the future, a change in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. As of December 31, 2008, we do not have any outstanding interest rate swap contracts to hedge against interest rate risk. j.Lack of liquidity in the market for auction rate securities has had and may continue to have an adverse impact on the fair value of such securities and our ability to liquidate such securities. Our marketable securities portfolio currently includes $26.8 million of principal invested in auction rate securities. These securities have long-term maturities for which the interest rates are reset through a Dutch auction, typically each month. These auctions historically had provided a liquid market for these securities. However, with the liquidity issues experienced in global credit and capital markets, these securities have experienced multiple failed auctions because the amount of securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders. We have recorded an impairment charge of $8.6 million at December 31, 2008 (including $4.4 million reclassified from other comprehensive income), reflecting the portion of our auction rate securities that we have concluded has an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, and we have recorded an unrealized loss of $3.4 million in other comprehensive income, reflecting adjustments to our auction rate securities that we have concluded have a temporary decline in fair value. The credit and capital markets have seen significant deterioration in 2008, including the failure of a number of significant and established U.S. financial institutions. If uncertainties in these markets continue, or these markets deteriorate further, or we experience any additional ratings downgrades on our auction rate securities, we may incur additional impairments to our investment portfolio, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If market liquidity does not return and we hold these securities until maturity, this may have a material adverse effect on our short-term cash position and could impact future expenditures and result in additional write downs on our auction rate securities, which will impact our profitability. k.Our securities are subject to price volatility. Stock market trading prices for the securities of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including our own, have historically been highly volatile, and such securities have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. For 17 Table of Contents example, during the 12-month period ended December 31, 2008, the price of our Common Shares ranged from a low of $6.65 to a high of $14.90 on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"). l.Our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations worldwide could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. We are subject to laws and regulations concerning the environment, safety matters, regulation of chemicals and product safety in the countries where we manufacture and sell our products or otherwise operate our business. These requirements include regulation of the handling, manufacture, transportation, use and disposal of materials, including the discharge of pollutants into the environment. In the normal course of our business, hazardous substances may be released into the environment, which could cause environmental or property damage or personal injuries, and which could subject us to remediation obligations regarding contaminated soil and groundwater or potential liability for damage claims. Under certain laws, we may be required to remediate contamination at certain of our properties regardless of whether the contamination was caused by us or by previous occupants of the property or by others. In recent years, the operations of all companies have become subject to increasingly stringent legislation and regulation related to occupational safety and health, product registration and environmental protection. Such legislation and regulations are complex and constantly changing, and future changes in laws or regulations may require us to install additional controls for certain of our emission sources, to undertake changes in our manufacturing processes or to remediate soil or groundwater contamination at facilities where such cleanup is not currently required. m.Rising insurance costs or our inability to obtain insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. The cost of insurance, including insurance for directors and officers, workers' compensation, property, product liability and general liability insurance, may increase in future years. Such insurance may also become unavailable to us. For example, as a result of the recent settlements in a number of legal and regulatory proceedings, we will have exhausted our coverage under our Director and Officer liability insurance for claims reported in respect of our 2002-2004 policy period. Rising insurance costs or the inability to obtain insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. In response to increased costs, we may increase deductibles or decrease certain coverages to mitigate cost increases. These increases, and our increased risk due to increased deductibles and reduced coverages, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. n.We are exposed to risks if we are unable to comply with laws and future changes to laws affecting public companies, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("SOX"), and also to increased costs associated with complying with such laws. Any future changes to the laws and regulations affecting public companies, as well as compliance with existing provisions of SOX in the U.S. and Part XXIII.1 of the Securities Act (Ontario), R.S.O. 1990, c. S.5 (the "Ontario Securities Act") and related rules and applicable stock exchange rules and regulations, may cause us to incur increased costs as we evaluate the implications of new rules and respond to new requirements. Although we are currently exempt from certain requirements under the U.S. securities laws and applicable U.S. stock exchange rules and regulations due to our status as a foreign private issuer, if our status changes, we may be subject to additional requirements, which may also cause us to incur such an increase in costs. Delays, or a failure to comply with any new laws, rules and regulations that apply to us, could result in enforcement actions, the assessment of other penalties and civil suits. New laws and regulations could make it more expensive for us under indemnities we provide to our officers and directors and could make it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including liability insurance for directors and officers; as such, we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on the Board of Directors or as officers. We may be required to hire additional personnel and 18 Table of Contents utilize additional outside legal, accounting and advisory services — all of which could cause our general and administrative costs to increase beyond what we currently have planned. We are continuing to evaluate and monitor developments with respect to these laws, rules and regulations, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. We are required annually to review and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with applicable securities laws. The results of this review are reported in this Annual Report on Form 20-F and in our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operation and Financial Condition ("MD&A"). Our registered public accounting firm is also required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over our financial reporting, there is the possibility of errors or omissions occurring or misrepresentations in our disclosures which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition and the value of our Common Shares. o.We rely on third parties to provide us with services in connection with the execution of our business. We outsource a number of commercial functions to unaffiliated third parties. For example, as part of the U.S. commercialization of Zovirax®, we entered into a service agreement with Publicis Selling Solutions, Inc. ("PSS") to promote Zovirax® to physicians in the U.S. This transition of the Zovirax® promotional services from Sciele Pharma, Inc. ("Sciele") (our prior promoter of Zovirax® to U.S. physicians) to PSS may not be successful and we may encounter difficulties during the remainder of the transition process. Services provided by third parties as a part of outsourcing initiatives could be interrupted as a result of many factors, such as force majeure events or contract disputes, and any failure by these third parties to provide us with these services on a timely basis, or at all, could result in a disruption of our business. p.Our quorum requirement for shareholders' meetings is high and could impact our ability to convene shareholders' meetings and effect changes to our business and operations. Our by-laws currently provide that quorum for a meeting of our shareholders is 51% of our issued and outstanding Common Shares. Failure to achieve quorum for our shareholders' meetings may limit our ability to effect changes to our business and operations where shareholder authorization is required. Moreover, we may be required to incur additional costs and expense in order to apply to a court to have our shareholder quorum reduced or our corporate actions validated. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. II. NATURE OF OUR INDUSTRY AND OUR BUSINESS 1. Pharmaceutical Industry Risks a.The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and is subject to rapid and significant technological change, which could render our technologies and products obsolete or uncompetitive. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and is subject to rapid and significant technological change that could render certain of our products obsolete or uncompetitive. Many of our competitors are conducting research and development activities in therapeutic areas targeted by our products and our product development candidates. The introduction of competitive therapies as alternatives to our existing products may negatively impact our revenues from those products, and the introduction of products that directly compete with products in development could dramatically reduce the value of those development projects or chances of successfully commercializing those products, which could have a material adverse effect on our long-term financial success. For example, our Legacy Products (as defined below under Item 4.B, "Information on the Company — Business Overview — Priority Markets") face competition from conventional forms of drug delivery and from controlled release drug-delivery systems developed, or under development, by other companies. 19 Table of Contents We compete with companies in North America and internationally, including major pharmaceutical and chemical companies, specialized contract research organizations, research-and-development firms, universities and other research institutions. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources and selling and marketing capabilities, greater experience in clinical testing and human clinical trials of pharmaceutical products and greater experience in obtaining FDA, TPD and other regulatory approvals than we do. In addition, some of our competitors may have lower development and manufacturing costs. Our competitors may succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective or less expensive to produce or use than any that we may develop or license. These developments could render our technologies and products obsolete or uncompetitive, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. For more information on the effect of changes in the industry on our business, see Item 4.B, "Information on the Company — Business Overview — Transitioning Pharmaceutical Industry". b.We are subject to exposure relating to product liability claims. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to significant product liability and other claims in the event that the use of our products results, or is alleged to have resulted, in adverse effects. Furthermore, our products may cause, or may appear to have caused, adverse side effects (including death) or potentially dangerous drug interactions that we may not learn about or understand fully until the drug has been administered to patients for some time. As our products are used more widely and in patients with varying medical conditions, the likelihood of an adverse drug reaction, unintended side effect or incidence of misuse may increase. Product liability claims, regardless of their merits or their ultimate outcomes, are costly, divert management's attention and may adversely affect our reputation and demand for our products and may result in significant damages. Although we currently carry product liability insurance that we believe is appropriate for the risks that we face, our coverage may not be sufficient to cover our claims and we may not be able to obtain sufficient coverage at a reasonable cost in the future. An inability to obtain product liability insurance at an acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the growth of our business or the number of products we can successfully market. Our obligation to pay indemnities, the withdrawal of a product following complaints, or a product liability claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. c.We may experience reductions in the levels of reimbursement for or acceptance of pharmaceutical products by governmental authorities, health maintenance organizations ("HMOs") or other third-party payors. Any such reductions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. Various governmental authorities and private health insurers and other organizations, such as HMOs, managed care organizations ("MCOs") and provincial formularies provide reimbursement to consumers for the cost of certain pharmaceutical products. Our ability to successfully commercialize our products and product candidates — even if FDA or TPD approval is obtained — and the demand for our products depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement is available from such third-party payors. Third-party payors are increasingly becoming less willing to reimburse for medications which offer primarily convenience to and greater compliance among patients (such as once-daily formulations) and are focusing more on products that offer clinically meaningful benefits. If we are not able to execute our New Strategic Focus, which we believe is designed to address this shift, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Third-party payors increasingly challenge the pricing of pharmaceutical products. In addition, the trend toward managed healthcare in the U.S., the growth of organizations such as HMOs and MCOs and legislative proposals to reform healthcare and government insurance programs, could significantly influence the purchase of pharmaceutical products, resulting in lower prices and/or a reduction in product demand. Such cost-containment measures and healthcare reform could affect our ability to sell our products at viable prices, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. 20 Table of Contents Uncertainty exists about the reimbursement status of newly approved pharmaceutical products. Reimbursement in the U.S., Canada or foreign countries may not be available for some of our products. Any reimbursement granted may not be maintained, or limits on reimbursement available from third parties may reduce the demand for, or negatively affect the price of, those products. We are also unable to predict if additional legislation or regulation impacting the healthcare industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future, or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business. Any reimbursement may be reduced in the future, perhaps to the point that market demand for our products declines. Such decline could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. A number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the healthcare system, and changes in the levels at which pharmaceutical companies are reimbursed for sales of their products, have been proposed. In addition, as a result of the focus on healthcare reform in connection with the new presidential administration in the U.S., there is risk that Congress may implement changes in laws and regulations governing healthcare service providers, including measures to control costs or reductions in reimbursement levels, which may have an adverse impact on our business. While we cannot predict when or whether any of these proposals will be adopted, or the effect these proposals may have on our business, the pending nature of these proposals, as well as the adoption of any proposal, may exacerbate industry-wide pricing pressures and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes to Medicare, Medicaid or similar governmental programs — or the amounts paid by those programs for our services — may adversely affect our earnings. These programs are highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial changes and cost-containment measures. In recent years, changes in these programs have limited and reduced reimbursement to providers. d.We may incur significant liability if it is determined that we are promoting the "off-label" use of drugs. Companies may not promote drugs for "off-label" uses — that is, uses that are not described in the product's labeling and that differ from those approved by the FDA, TPD or other applicable regulatory agencies. Physicians may prescribe drug products for off-label uses, and such off-label uses are common across medical specialties. Although the FDA, TPD and other regulatory agencies do not regulate a physician's choice of treatments, the FDA, TPD and other regulatory agencies do restrict communications by pharmaceutical companies or their sales representatives on the subject of off-label use. The FDA, TPD and other regulatory agencies actively enforce regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing clearance has not been obtained. A company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions. Notwithstanding the regulatory restrictions on off-label promotion, the FDA, TPD and other regulatory authorities allow companies to engage in truthful, non-misleading, and non-promotional speech concerning their products. Although we believe that all of our communications regarding all of our products are in compliance with the relevant regulatory requirements, the FDA, TPD or another regulatory authority may disagree, and we may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies, as well as criminal sanctions. In addition, management's attention could be diverted from our business operations and our reputation could be damaged. Our distribution partners may also be the subject of regulatory investigations involving, or remedies or sanctions for, off-label uses of products we have licensed to them, which may have an adverse impact on sales of such licensed products, which may, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Shares to decline. e.An unfavourable audit result for our Contract Research Division business could result in an adverse effect on that business. Our CRD business provides us and other pharmaceutical companies with a broad range of Phase I and Phase II clinical-research services. Our CRD business is subject to strict regulation by Canadian governmental authorities. These regulations may change and these governmental authorities periodically conduct audits. The outcome of such an audit, should it be unfavorable, could result in an adverse effect on our CRD business including, without limitation, costs to remediate deficiencies, reputational impact of an adverse audit and our ability to solicit work for our CRD business. 21 Table of Contents 