Item 1A. Risk Factors This report includes "forward looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including statements about our plans, strategies, expectations, assumptions and prospects. "Forward-looking statements" are all statements other than statements of historical fact, or current facts, that address activities, events, outcomes and other matters that we plan, expect, intend, assume, believe, budget, predict, forecast, project, estimate or anticipate (or other similar expressions) will, should or may occur in the future, such as: statements regarding our financial plans; our indebtedness; share repurchases; strategic plans; future financing plans; development and capital expenditures; business strategies; our ability to obtain necessary permits for new developments; and other plans and objectives for future operations and activities. Forward-looking statements are based on our assumptions and analysis made in light of our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors that we believe are appropriate under the circumstances. These statements are subject to a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties, including the risk factors discussed below and in our other filings with the SEC, general economic and business conditions, the business opportunities that may be presented to and pursued by us, changes in laws or regulations and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Readers are cautioned that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and the actual results or developments may differ materially from those projected, predicted or assumed in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations include, among others, the following: We are vulnerable to concentration risks because our operations are currently almost exclusive to the Austin, Texas, market. Our real estate activities are almost entirely located in Austin, Texas. Because of our geographic concentration and limited number of projects, our operations are more vulnerable to local economic downturns and adverse project-specific risks than those of larger, more diversified companies. The performance of the Austin economy greatly affects our sales and consequently the underlying values of our properties. The Austin economy is heavily influenced by conditions in the technology industry. In a weak technology market, which had been the condition between 2001 and 2004, we experienced reduced sales, primarily affecting our “high-end” properties. Although Austin real estate market conditions have improved since 2005, our geographic concentration may create increased vulnerability during regional economic downturns, which can significantly affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations, we may find it necessary to curtail our development activities. Significant capital resources will be required to fund our development expenditures. Our performance continues to depend on future cash flows from real estate sales and rental income, and there can be no assurance that we will generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain sufficient funds to meet the expected development plans for our properties. Our results of operations and financial condition are greatly affected by the performance of the real estate industry. The real estate industry is highly cyclical and is affected by changes in national, global and local economic conditions and events, such as employment and income levels, availability of financing, interest rates, consumer confidence and overbuilding or decrease in demand. Our real estate activities are subject to 7 Table of Contents numerous factors beyond our control, including local real estate market conditions (both where our properties are located and in areas where our potential customers reside), substantial existing and potential competition, general national, regional and local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and mortgage availability, changes in demographic conditions and changes in government regulations or requirements. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could result in a reduction or cancellation of sales and/or lower gross margins for sales. Lower than expected sales as a result of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on the level of our profits and the timing and amounts of our cash flows. Real estate investments often cannot easily be converted into cash and market values may be adversely affected by these economic circumstances, market fundamentals, competition and demographic conditions. Because of the effect these factors have on real estate values, it is difficult to predict with certainty the level of future sales or sales prices that will be realized for individual assets. Mortgage financing issues, including lack of supply of mortgage loans and tightened lending requirements, could reduce demand for our products. Our real estate operations are dependent upon the availability and cost of mortgage financing for potential customers, to the extent they finance their purchases, and for buyers of the potential customers’ existing residences. Many mortgage lenders and investors in mortgage loans are currently experiencing severe financial difficulties arising from losses incurred on sub-prime and other loans originated before the downturn in the real estate market. These factors have led to a decrease in the availability of financing and an increase in the cost of financing. These problems in the mortgage lending industry could adversely affect potential purchasers of our products, thus having a negative effect on demand for our products. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. As of December 31, 2007, the outstanding principal amount of our indebtedness was $61.5 million. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: · increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in economic and industry conditions; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations and proceeds from asset sales to pay or provide for our indebtedness, thus reducing the availability of cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and other general corporate purposes; · limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and the market in which we operate; · place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt; and · limit our ability to borrow money to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements and other financing needs. In addition, the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness include restrictive covenants and require that certain financial ratios be maintained. We may also need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business to fund our development projects and our operations. If new debt is added to current debt levels, the risks described above could intensify. Further, if future debt financing is not available to us when required or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to grow our business, take advantage of business opportunities, respond to competitive pressures or refinance maturing debt, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our future performance is dependent on future cash flows from real estate sales, and there can be no assurance that we will generate sufficient cash flow. Unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions could hurt occupancy or rental rates. Market and economic conditions may significantly affect rental rates. Occupancy and rental rates in our market, in turn, may significantly affect our profitability and our ability to satisfy our financial obligations. The risks that may affect conditions in our market include the following: 8 Table of Contents · the economic climate, which may be adversely impacted by industry slowdowns and other factors; · local conditions, such as oversupply of office space and the demand for office space; · the inability or unwillingness of tenants to pay their current rent or rent increases; and · competition from other available office buildings and changes in market rental rates. We cannot predict with certainty whether any of these factors will occur or whether they will have an adverse affect on our operations. Our operations are subject to an intensive regulatory approval process and opposition from environmental groups that could cause delays and increase the costs of our development efforts or preclude such developments entirely. Before we can develop a property, we must obtain a variety of approvals from local and state governments with respect to such matters as zoning, density, parking, subdivision, site planning and environmental issues. Some of these approvals are discretionary by nature. Because government agencies and special interest groups have in the past expressed concerns about our development plans in or near Austin, our ability to develop these properties and realize future income from our properties could be delayed, reduced, prevented or made more expensive. Several special interest groups have long opposed our plans in the Austin area and have taken various actions to partially or completely restrict development in some areas, including areas where some of our most valuable properties are located. We have actively opposed these actions and do not believe unfavorable rulings would have a significant long-term adverse effect on the overall value of our property holdings. However, because of the regulatory environment that has existed in the Austin area and the intensive opposition of several special interest groups, there can be no assurance that our expectations will prove correct. Our operations are subject to governmental environmental regulation, which can change at any time and generally would result in an increase to our costs. Real estate development is subject to state and federal regulations and to possible interruption or termination because of environmental considerations, including, without limitation, air and water quality and protection of endangered species and their habitats. Certain of the Barton Creek properties include nesting territories for the Golden Cheek Warbler, a federally listed endangered species. In 1995, we received a permit from the United States (U.S.) Wildlife Service pursuant to the Endangered Species Act, which to date has allowed the development of the Barton Creek and Lantana properties free of restrictions under the Endangered Species Act related to the maintenance of habitat for the Golden Cheek Warbler. Additionally, in April 1997, the U.S. Department of Interior listed the Barton Springs Salamander as an endangered species after a federal court overturned a March 1997 decision by the Department of Interior not to list the Barton Springs Salamander based on a conservation agreement between the State of Texas and federal agencies. The listing of the Barton Springs Salamander has not affected, nor do we anticipate it will affect, our Barton Creek and Lantana properties for several reasons, including the results of technical studies and our U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 10(a) permit obtained in 1995. The development permitted by our 2002 Circle C settlement with the City has been reviewed and approved by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and, as a result, we do not anticipate that the 1997 listing of the Barton Springs Salamander will impact our Circle C properties. We are making, and will continue to make, expenditures with respect to our real estate development for the protection of the environment. Emphasis on environmental matters will result in additional costs in the future. New environmental regulations or changes in existing regulations or their enforcement may be enacted and such new regulations or changes may require significant expenditures by us. The recent trend toward stricter standards in environmental legislation and regulations is likely to continue and could have an additional impact on our operating costs. 9 Table of Contents The real estate business is very competitive and many of our competitors are larger and financially stronger than we are. The real estate business is highly competitive. We compete with a large number of companies and individuals that have significantly greater financial, sales, marketing and other resources than we have. Our competitors include local developers who are committed primarily to particular markets and also national developers who acquire properties throughout the U.S. Our operations are subject to natural risks. Our performance may be adversely affected by weather conditions that delay development or damage property. Our common stock is thinly traded; therefore, our stock price may fluctuate more than the stock market as a whole. As a result of the thin trading market for our stock, its market price may fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole or the stock prices of similar companies. Without a larger float, our common stock will be less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership, and as a result, the trading prices for our common stock may be more volatile. Among other things, trading of a relatively small volume of common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price than would be the case if public float were larger. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 