Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Form 10-K, including those risks set forth under the heading entitled "Forward-Looking Statements", and in other documents that we file with the SEC and the CSA, before making any investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the risks or uncertainties actually occur or develop, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could change. Under these circumstances, the market value of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in the our securities. We operate in an extremely competitive industry. If competitors develop or acquire more effective or less costly drugs for our target indications, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Many of our competitors, particularly large pharmaceutical companies, have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do. Many of our competitors spend significantly more on research and development related activities than we do. Others may succeed in developing or acquiring products that are more effective than those currently marketed or proposed for development by us. In addition, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private organizations conducting research may seek patent protection with respect to potentially competitive products. They may also establish exclusive collaborative or licensing relationships with our competitors. We have grown at a very rapid pace. Our inability to properly manage or support this growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. We have grown very rapidly over the past few years as a result of our acquisitions. This growth has put significant demands on our processes, systems and people. We have made and expect to make further investments in additional personnel, systems and internal control processes to help manage our growth. If we are unable to successfully manage and support our rapid growth and the challenges and difficulties associated with managing a larger, more complex business, this could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, and the market value of our common stock could decline. We may be unable to identify, acquire, close or integrate acquisition targets successfully. Part of our business strategy includes acquiring and integrating complementary businesses, products, technologies or other assets, and forming strategic alliances, joint ventures and other business combinations, to help drive future growth. We may also in-license new products or compounds. Acquisitions or similar arrangements may be complex, time consuming and expensive. We may not consummate some negotiations for acquisitions or other arrangements, which could result in significant diversion of management and other employee time, as well as substantial out-of-pocket costs. In addition, there are a number of risks and uncertainties relating to our closing transactions. If such transactions are not completed for any reason, we will be subject to several risks, including the following: (i) the market price of our common shares may reflect a market assumption that such transactions will occur, and a failure to complete such transactions could result in a negative perception by the market of us generally and a decline in the market price of our common shares; and (ii) many costs relating to the such transactions may be payable by us whether or not such transactions are completed. If an acquisition is consummated, the integration of the acquired business, product or other assets into our company may be also be complex and time-consuming and, if such businesses, products and assets are not successfully integrated, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits, cost-savings or growth opportunities. Potential difficulties that may be encountered in the integration process include the following: •integrating personnel, operations and systems, while maintaining focus on producing and delivering consistent, high quality products; •coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; 11 Table of Contents •distracting employees from operations; •retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; and •managing inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the Company. Furthermore, these acquisitions and other arrangements, even if successfully integrated, may fail to further our business strategy as anticipated, expose us to increased competition or challenges with respect to our products or geographic markets, and expose us to additional liabilities associated with an acquired business, product, technology or other asset or arrangement. Any one of these challenges or risks could impair our ability to realize any benefit from our acquisition or arrangement after we have expended resources on them. Our effective tax rates may increase. We have operations in various countries that have differing tax laws and rates. Our tax reporting is supported by current domestic tax laws in the countries in which we operate and the application of tax treaties between the various countries in which we operate. Our income tax reporting will be, and the historic tax reporting of each of Valeant and Biovail is, subject to audit by domestic and foreign authorities. Our effective tax rate may change from year to year based on changes in the mix of activities and income allocated or earned among the different jurisdictions in which we operate; changes in tax laws in these jurisdictions; changes in the tax treaties between various countries in which we operate; changes in our eligibility for benefits under those tax treaties; and changes in the estimated values of deferred tax assets and liabilities. Such changes could result in a substantial increase in the effective tax rate on all or a portion of our income. Our provision for income taxes is based on certain estimates and assumptions made by management. Our consolidated income tax rate is affected by the amount of net income earned in our various operating jurisdictions, the availability of benefits under tax treaties, and the rates of taxes payable in respect of that income. We enter into many transactions and arrangements in the ordinary course of business in respect of which the tax treatment is not entirely certain. We therefore make estimates and judgments based on our knowledge and understanding of applicable tax laws and tax treaties, and the application of those tax laws and tax treaties to our business, in determining our consolidated tax provision. For example, certain countries could seek to tax a greater share of income than will be provided for by us. The final outcome of any audits by taxation authorities may differ from the estimates and assumptions that we may use in determining our consolidated tax provisions and accruals. This could result in a material adverse effect on our consolidated income tax provision, financial condition and the net income for the period in which such determinations are made. Our deferred tax liabilities, deferred tax assets and any related valuation allowances are affected by events and transactions arising in the ordinary course of business, acquisitions of assets and businesses, and non-recurring items. The assessment of the appropriate amount of a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets is dependent upon several factors, including estimates of the realization of deferred income tax assets, which realization will be primarily based on forecasts of future taxable income. Significant judgment is applied to determine the appropriate amount of valuation allowance to record. Changes in the amount of any valuation allowance required could materially increase or decrease our provision for income taxes in a given period. We have incurred significant indebtedness, which indebtedness may restrict the manner in which we conduct business and limit our ability to implement elements of our growth strategy. We have incurred significant indebtedness primarily in connection with our recent acquisitions. We may also incur additional long-term debt and working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs which, subject to certain restrictions under our indebtedness would increase our total debt. This indebtedness may restrict the manner in which we conduct business and limit our ability to implement elements of our growth strategy, including with respect to: •limitations on our ability to obtain additional debt financing; •instances in which we are unable to meet the financial covenants contained in our debt agreements or to generate cash sufficient to make required debt payments, which circumstances would have the potential of resulting in the acceleration of the maturity of some or all of our outstanding indebtedness; 12 Table of Contents •the allocation of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thus reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes; •requiring us to issue debt or equity securities or to sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, to meet payment obligations; •compromising our flexibility to plan for, or react to, competitive challenges in our business; •the possibility that we are put at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors that do not have as much debt as us, and competitors that may be in a more favorable position to access additional capital resources; and •limitations on our ability to execute business development activities to support our strategies. In January 2012, Moody's Investor Services ("Moody's") downgraded our senior secured debt rating from Baa3 to Ba1. At the same time, Moody's reaffirmed our Corporate Family rating (Ba3) and our senior unsecured debt rating (B1). Increased debt levels could result in further ratings pressure. A further downgrade may increase our cost of borrowing and may negatively affect our ability to raise additional debt capital. Obtaining necessary government approvals is time consuming and not assured. The FDA and TPD approval must be obtained in the U.S. and Canada, respectively, and approval must be obtained from comparable agencies in other countries, prior to marketing or manufacturing new pharmaceutical products for use by humans. Obtaining FDA, TPD and other regulatory approval for new products and manufacturing processes can take a number of years and involves the expenditure of substantial resources. Even if such products appear promising in large-scale Phase 3 clinical trials, regulatory approval may not be achieved and no assurance can be given that we will obtain approval in the U.S., Canada or any other country. Nor can any assurance be given that if such approval is secured, the approved labeling will not have significant labeling limitations, including limitations on the indications for which we can market a product, or require onerous risk management programs. Our marketed drugs will be subject to ongoing regulatory review. Following initial regulatory approval of any drugs we or our partners may develop, we will be subject to continuing regulatory review by the FDA, the TPD and other regulatory authorities in countries where our products are marketed or intended to be marketed, including the review of adverse drug events and clinical results that are reported after product candidates become commercially available. The manufacturing, labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, promotion, reporting and recordkeeping related to the product will also be subject to extensive ongoing regulatory requirements. If we fail to comply with U.S. and Canadian regulatory requirements and those in other countries where our products are sold, we could lose our marketing approvals or be subject to fines or other sanctions. In addition, incidents of adverse drug reactions, unintended side effects or misuse relating to our products could result in additional regulatory controls or restrictions, or even lead to withdrawal of a product from the market. As a condition to granting marketing approval of a product, the FDA and TPD may require a company to conduct additional clinical trials, the results of which could result in the subsequent loss of marketing approval, changes in product labeling or new or increased concerns about side effects or efficacy of a product. Our approved products may not achieve or maintain expected levels of market acceptance. Even if we are able to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals for our new pharmaceutical products, generic or branded, the success of these products is dependent upon achieving and maintaining market acceptance. Commercializing products is time consuming, expensive and unpredictable. There can be no assurance that we will be able to, either by ourselves or in collaboration with our partners or through our licensees, successfully commercialize new products or gain market acceptance for such products. New product candidates that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or may have only limited or no 13 Table of Contents commercial success. Levels of market acceptance for our new products could be impacted by several factors, many of which are not within our control, including but not limited to the: •safety, efficacy, convenience and cost-effectiveness of our products compared to products of our competitors; •scope of approved uses and marketing approval; •timing of market approvals and market entry; •availability of alternative products from our competitors; •acceptance of the price of our products; and •ability to market our products effectively at the retail level or in the appropriate setting of care. Further, the discovery of significant problems with a product similar to one of our products that implicate (or are perceived to implicate) an entire class of products could have an adverse effect on sales of the affected products. Accordingly, new data about our products, or products similar to our products, could negatively impact demand for our products due to real or perceived side effects or uncertainty regarding efficacy and, in some cases, could result in product withdrawal. We will not be able to commercialize our pipeline products if preclinical studies do not produce successful results or if clinical trials do not demonstrate safety and efficacy in humans. We and our development partners, as applicable, conduct extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy in humans of our pipeline products in order to obtain regulatory approval for the sale of our pipeline products. Preclinical studies and clinical trials are expensive, can take many years and have uncertain outcomes. If we or our third-party manufacturers are unable to manufacture our products or the manufacturing process is interrupted due to failure to comply with regulations or for other reasons, the interruption of the manufacture of our products could adversely affect our business. Other manufacturing difficulties or delays may also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Our manufacturing facilities and those of our contract manufacturers must be inspected and found to be in full compliance with current good manufacturing practices ("cGMP") or similar standards before approval for marketing. Our failure or that of our contract manufacturers to comply with cGMP regulations or similar regulations outside of the U.S. can result in enforcement action by the FDA or its foreign counterparts, including, but not limited to, warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil or criminal penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production or importation, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval for approved or in-market products, refusal of the government to renew marketing applications or approve pending applications or supplements, suspension of ongoing clinical trials, imposition of new manufacturing requirements, closure of facilities and criminal prosecution. Our manufacturing and other processes use complicated and sophisticated equipment, which sometimes requires a significant amount of time to obtain and install. Manufacturing complexity, testing requirements and safety and security processes combine to increase the overall difficulty of manufacturing these products and resolving manufacturing problems that we may encounter. Although we endeavor to properly maintain our equipment, including through on-site quality control and experienced manufacturing supervision, and have key spare parts on hand, our business could suffer if certain manufacturing or other equipment, or all or a portion of our facilities, were to become inoperable for a period of time. This could occur for various reasons, including catastrophic events, such as hurricanes, earthquakes or other natural disasters, explosions, environmental accidents, pandemics, quarantine, equipment failures or delays in obtaining components or replacements, construction delays or defects and other events, both within and outside of our control. We could experience substantial production delays in the event of any such occurrence until we build or locate replacement equipment or a replacement facility, as applicable, and seek to obtain necessary regulatory approvals for such replacement. Any interruption in our manufacture of products could have a material adverse effect on our 14 Table of Contents business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Our dependence upon others to manufacture our products may adversely affect our profit margins and our ability to develop and obtain approval for our products on a timely and competitive basis, if at all. In addition, delays or difficulties by us or with our contract manufacturers in producing, packaging, or distributing our products could adversely affect the sales of our current products or introduction of other products. If we are unable to obtain components or raw materials, or products supplied by third parties, our ability to manufacture and deliver our products to the market would be impeded, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Some components and raw materials used in our manufactured products, and some products sold by us, are currently available only from one or a limited number of domestic or foreign suppliers. In the event an existing supplier becomes unavailable through business interruption or financial insolvency or loses its regulatory status as an approved source or we are unable to renew current supply agreements when such agreements expire and we do not have a second supplier, we may be unable to obtain the required components, raw materials or products on a timely basis or at commercially reasonable prices. A prolonged interruption in the supply of a single-sourced raw material, including the active pharmaceutical ingredient, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Disruptions of delivery of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. The supply of our products to our customers is subject to and dependent upon the use of transportation services. Disruption of transportation services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. We have entered into distribution agreements with other companies to distribute certain of our products at supply prices based on net sales. Declines in the pricing and/or volume, over which we have no or limited control, of such products, and therefore the amounts paid to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Our portfolio of generic products and certain of our other products are the subject of various agreements, pursuant to which we manufacture and sell products to other companies, which distribute such products at a supply price typically based on net sales. Our ability to control pricing and volume of these products is limited and, in some cases, these companies make all distribution and pricing decisions independently of us. If the pricing or volume of such products declines, our revenues would be adversely impacted which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Our marketing, promotional and pricing practices, as well as the manner in which sales forces interact with purchasers, prescribers and patients, are subject to extensive regulation and any material failure to comply could result in significant sanctions against us. The marketing, promotional, and pricing practices of pharmaceutical companies, as well as the manner in which companies, in-house or third-party sales forces interact with purchasers, prescribers, and patients, are subject to extensive regulation, enforcement of which may result in the imposition of civil and/or criminal penalties, injunctions, and/or limitations on marketing practice for our products. Many companies, including us, have been the subject of claims related to these practices asserted by federal authorities. These claims have resulted in fines and other consequences to us. We are now operating under a Corporate Integrity Agreement ("CIA") that requires us to maintain a comprehensive compliance program governing our sales, marketing and government pricing and contracting functions. Material failures to comply with the CIA could result in significant sanctions against us, including monetary penalties and exclusion from federal health care programs. 15 Table of Contents Companies may not promote drugs for "off-label" uses — that is, uses that are not described in the product's labeling and that differ from those approved by the FDA, TPD or other applicable regulatory agencies. A company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions. In addition, management's attention could be diverted from our business operations and our reputation could be damaged. Products representing a significant amount of our revenue are not protected by patent or data exclusivity rights. A significant amount of the products we sell have no meaningful exclusivity protection via patent or data exclusivity rights. These products represent a significant amount of our revenues. Without exclusivity protection, competitors face fewer barriers in introducing competing products. The introduction of competing products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to risks arising from the international scope of our operations. We conduct a significant portion of our business outside the U.S. and Canada and, in light of our growth strategy, we anticipate continuing to expand our operations into new countries, including emerging markets. We sell our pharmaceutical products in many countries around the world. All of our foreign operations are subject to risks inherent in conducting business abroad, including possible nationalization or expropriation, price and currency exchange controls, fluctuations in the relative values of currencies, political and economic instability, credit market uncertainty, compliance with multiple regulatory regimes and restrictive governmental actions. The general business and economic conditions in the U.S., Canada, Europe, Australia, Latin America and other countries in which we conduct business could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and capital resources, revenues and operating results, which could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. We may be impacted by general economic conditions and factors over which we have no control, such as changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency rates, lack of liquidity in certain markets and volatility in capital markets. Similarly, adverse economic conditions impacting our customers or uncertainty about global economic conditions could cause purchases of our products to decline, which could adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Moreover, our projected revenues and operating results are based on assumptions concerning certain levels of customer spending. Any failure to attain our projected revenues and operating results as a result of adverse economic or market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Due to the large portion of our business conducted outside the United States, we have significant foreign currency risk. We face foreign currency exposure on the translation of our operations in Poland and other Eastern European countries, Canada, Australia and Latin America. Where possible, we manage foreign currency risk by managing same currency revenue in relation to same currency expenses. As a result, both favorable and unfavorable foreign currency impacts to our foreign currency-denominated operating expenses are mitigated to a certain extent by the natural, opposite impact on our foreign currency-denominated revenue. The international scope of our operations may also lead to volatile financial results and difficulties in managing our operations. We must continue to retain, motivate and recruit executives and other key employees, and failure to do so could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. We must continue to retain, motivate and recruit executives and other key employees. A failure by us to retain and motivate executives and other key employees could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. 16 Table of Contents We are exposed to risks related to interest rates. The primary objective of investing our excess cash is the protection of principal and, accordingly, we invest in investment grade securities with varying maturities, but typically less than one year. Our Credit Facility bears interest based on U.S. dollar London Interbank Offering Rates, or U.S. Prime Rate, or Federal Funds effective rate. Thus, a change in the short-term interest rate environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. As of December 31, 2011, we do not have any outstanding interest rate swap contracts. We are involved in various legal proceedings that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. We are involved in several legal proceedings. Defending against claims and any unfavorable legal decisions, settlements or orders could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. If our products cause, or are alleged to cause, serious or widespread personal injury, we may have to withdraw those products from the market and/or incur significant costs, including payment of substantial sums in damages, and we may be subject to exposure relating to product liability claims. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to significant product liability and other claims in the event that the use of our products caused, or is alleged to have caused, adverse effects. Furthermore, our products may cause, or may appear to have caused, adverse side effects (including death) or potentially dangerous drug interactions that we may not learn about or understand fully until the drug has been administered to patients for some time. The withdrawal of a product following complaints and/or incurring significant costs, including the requirement to pay substantial damages in personal injury cases or product liability cases, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Our product liability insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover our claims and we may not be able to obtain sufficient coverage at a reasonable cost in the future. We may become involved in infringement actions which are uncertain, costly and time-consuming and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. The pharmaceutical industry historically has generated substantial litigation concerning the manufacture, use and sale of products and we expect this litigation activity to continue. As a result, we expect that patents related to our products will be routinely challenged, and our patents may not be upheld. In order to protect or enforce patent rights, we may initiate litigation against third parties. If we are not successful in defending an attack on our patents and maintaining exclusive rights to market one or more of our major products still under patent protection, we could lose a significant portion of sales in a very short period. We may also become subject to infringement claims by third parties and may have to defend against charges that we violated patents or the proprietary rights of third parties. If we infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could lose our right to develop, manufacture or sell products, including our generic products, or could be required to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. The outcomes of infringement action are uncertain and infringement actions are costly and divert technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. We are subject to various laws and regulations, including "fraud and abuse" laws and anti-bribery laws, and a failure to comply with such laws and regulations or prevail in any litigation related to noncompliance could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have faced lawsuits and investigations pertaining to violations of health care "fraud and abuse" laws, such as the federal False Claims Act, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and other state and federal laws and regulations. We also face increasingly strict data privacy and security laws in the U.S. and in other countries, the violation of which could 17 Table of Contents result in fines and other sanctions. The United States Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General recommends and, increasingly states, require pharmaceutical companies to have comprehensive compliance programs and to disclose certain payments made to healthcare providers or funds spent on marketing and promotion of drug products. If we are in violation of any of these requirements or any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant fines, exclusion from federal healthcare programs or other sanctions. The FCPA and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices or may require us to interact with doctors and hospitals, some of which may be state controlled, in a manner that is different than in the U.S. and Canada. We cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in criminal or civil penalties or remedial measures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations worldwide could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. We are subject to laws and regulations concerning the environment, safety matters, regulation of chemicals and product safety in the countries where we manufacture and sell our products or otherwise operate our business. These requirements include regulation of the handling, manufacture, transportation, use and disposal of materials, including the discharge of pollutants into the environment. In the normal course of our business, hazardous substances may be released into the environment, which could cause environmental or property damage or personal injuries, and which could subject us to remediation obligations regarding contaminated soil and groundwater or potential liability for damage claims. Under certain laws, we may be required to remediate contamination at certain of our properties regardless of whether the contamination was caused by us or by previous occupants of the property or by others. In recent years, the operations of all companies have become subject to increasingly stringent legislation and regulation related to occupational safety and health, product registration and environmental protection. Such legislation and regulations are complex and constantly changing, and future changes in laws or regulations may require us to install additional controls for certain of our emission sources, to undertake changes in our manufacturing processes or to remediate soil or groundwater contamination at facilities where such cleanup is not currently required. We are exposed to risks if we are unable to comply with laws and future changes to laws affecting public companies, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("SOX"), and also to increased costs associated with complying with such laws. Any future changes to the laws and regulations affecting public companies, as well as compliance with existing provisions of SOX in the U.S. and Part XXIII.1 of the Securities Act (Ontario), R.S.O. 1990, c. S.5 and related rules and applicable stock exchange rules and regulations, may cause us to incur increased costs as we evaluate the implications of new rules and respond to new requirements. Delays, or a failure to comply with any laws, rules and regulations that apply to us, could result in enforcement actions, the assessment of other penalties and civil suits. New laws and regulations could make it more expensive for us under indemnities we provide to our officers and directors and could make it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including liability insurance for directors and officers; as such, we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on the board of directors or as officers. We are required annually to review and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with applicable securities laws. Our registered public accounting 18 Table of Contents firm is also required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over our financial reporting, there is the possibility of errors or omissions occurring or misrepresentations in our disclosures which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system may affect our ability to sell our products profitably and could adversely affect our business. In the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably. On March 23, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which includes a number of health care reform provisions and requires most U.S. citizens to have health insurance. Effective January 1, 2010, the new law increased the minimum Medicaid drug rebates for pharmaceutical companies, expanded the 340B drug discount program, and made changes to affect the Medicare Part D coverage gap, or "donut hole". The law also revised the definition of "average manufacturer price" for reporting purposes, which may increase the amount of our Medicaid drug rebates to states. Beginning in 2011, the new law imposes a significant annual fee on companies that manufacture or import branded prescription drug products. Substantial new provisions affecting compliance also have been added, which may require us to modify our business practices with health care practitioners. A variety of federal and state agencies are responsible for implementing the law, including through the issuance of rules, regulations or guidance that materially affect our business. Various legal challenges have been filed against the law, with some lower courts reaching conflicting decisions. The Supreme Court has agreed to hear argument on these challenges in March 2012 and we cannot predict at this time what impact these challenges will have on our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 19 Table of Contents 