ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Company and Our Business Due to our ongoing losses, lack of liquidity and debt obligations, there is doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have experienced significant operating losses in the current and prior fiscal years. At March 31, 2012, our principal sources of liquidity were cash and cash equivalents of $1.4 million. We do not expect that our cash on hand and cash generated by operations will be sufficient to fund our operating and capital needs for the next 12 months. As a result of our limited cash resources and history of operating losses, our auditors have expressed in their report on our consolidated financial statements that there is doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We presently have no further commitments for financing by affiliates of our Chairman Carl Berg. We have depended for financing on sales of common stock under an At Market Issuance Sales Agreement (the "At Market Agreement") with Wm. Smith & Co., but not have issued shares under this agreement since the first quarter of fiscal year 2012. If we are unable to obtain further financing under the At Market Agreement or from affiliates of Mr. Berg or others on terms acceptable to us, or at all, we will not be able to fulfill our customer commitments and/or may be forced to cease our operations and liquidate our assets. Our limited financial resources could materially affect our business, our ability to commercially exploit our technology and our ability to respond to unanticipated developments, and could place us at a disadvantage to our competitors. Currently, we do not have sufficient capital resources or cash flow from operations to generate the cash flows required to meet our operating and capital needs. Our ability to raise capital may be adversely affected by a variety of risks discussed elsewhere herein, including the volatility of the stock market and our ability to raise funds via share sales under our At Market Agreement with Wm. Smith. Our inability to raise adequate funds, or any funds, via the At Market Agreement, or other capital-raising transactions, limits our financial resources and could materially adversely affect our ability to commercially exploit our technologies and products. For example, it could: · limit the research and development resources we are able to commit to the further development of our technology and the development of products that can be commercially exploited in our marketplace; · limit the sales and marketing resources that we are able to commit to the marketing of our technology; · have an adverse effect on our ability to attract top-tier companies as our technology and marketing partners; · have an adverse effect on our ability to employ and retain qualified employees with the skills and expertise necessary to implement our business plan; · make us more vulnerable to failing to achieve our forecasted results, economic downturns, adverse industry conditions or catastrophic external events; · limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing business and economic conditions; and · place us at a disadvantage to our competitors that have greater financial resources than we have. We have a history of losses and an accumulated deficit and may never achieve or sustain significant revenues or profitability. We have incurred operating losses each year since our inception in 1989 and had an accumulated deficit of $607 million as of March 31, 2012. We have sustained recurring losses related primarily to the research and development and marketing of our products combined with the lack of sufficient sales to provide for these needs. We anticipate that we will continue to incur operating losses and negative cash flows over the next fiscal year. We may never achieve or sustain sufficient revenues or profitability in the future. We reported a net loss available to common stockholders of $12.9 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, a net loss available to common stockholders of $12.9 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011, and a net loss available to common stockholders of $23.2 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010. If we cannot achieve a competitive cost structure, achieve profitability, and acquire access to capital markets on acceptable terms, we will be unable to fund our obligations and sustain our operations, and may be required to liquidate our assets, cease operations or file for bankruptcy protection. We depend on a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues, and our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed if we were to lose all or a part of the business from any one of them. To date, our existing purchase orders in commercial quantities are from a limited number of customers. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, Segway Inc., Howard Medical Solutions, Rubbermaid Medical Solutions, PVI, and Smith Electric Vehicles represented 21%, 12%, 12%, 12% and 12% of our revenues, respectively. We have not sold product to Smith Electric Vehicles since the first quarter of fiscal year 2012, and currently do not have any open orders with them. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011, Smith Electric Vehicles and Segway contributed 42% and 24% of our revenues, respectively. We anticipate that sales of our products to a limited number of key customers will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenues although the identity of our key customers has changed and may in the future change from period to period. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our key customers committing them to purchase any specified amount of our products. As a result, we face the substantial risk that one or more of the following events could occur: 9 ● reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from a customer; ● development by a customer of other sources of supply; ● selection by a customer of devices manufactured by one of our competitors for inclusion in future product generations; ● loss of a customer or a disruption in our sales and distribution channels; or ● failure of a customer to make timely payment of our invoices. If we were to lose one or more customers, or if we were to lose revenues due to a customer’s inability or refusal to continue to purchase our batteries, or if we are not able to collect amounts owed to us by existing or former customers, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. Any adverse economic conditions, including a future recession or credit constraints, or unfavorable economic conditions in a particular region, business or industry sector, may lead our customers to delay or forego technology investments and could have other effects, such as limiting our ability to access funds on credit and reducing the value of our equity securities, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Any future disruptions in the credit and financial markets could have a significant material adverse effect on the global economy. A future recession or slowdown in the financial markets or other adverse economic conditions, including but not limited to, weak consumer spending, low employment rates, weak business conditions, inflation, high fuel and energy costs, high consumer debt levels, lack of available credit, the uncertain state of the financial markets, interest rates, and tax rates may result in reduced demand for products utilizing our advanced battery technology and difficulties in us obtaining financing, which may adversely affect our growth and business prospects. Risks we might face could include: · potential declines in revenues due to reduced orders or other factors caused by economic challenges faced by our customers and prospective customers; · potential adverse effects on our customers’ ability to pay, when due, amounts payable to us and related increases in our cost of capital associated with any increased working capital or borrowing needs we may have if this occurs, or to collect amounts payable to us in full (or at all) if any of our customers fail or seek protection under applicable bankruptcy or insolvency laws; · potential adverse effects on our ability to access credit and other financing sources (and the cost thereof), which may affect our ability to finance our operations or make significant capital expenditures relating to new products; · lengthening sales cycles and/or delayed or cancelled decisions to purchase our products and/or our technology; and · potential adverse effects on the valuation of our equity securities as a result of the volatility of global stock markets. The occurrence of such events could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Such a future economic slowdown or recession in the global economy is likely to materially affect the global banking system including individual institutions as well as a particular business or industry sector, which could cause further consolidations or failures in such a sector. These adverse financial events could also result in further government intervention in the United States and world markets. Any of these results could affect the manner in which we are able to conduct business including within a particular industry sector or market and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow or cash position. Our working capital requirements may increase beyond those currently anticipated. We have planned for an increase in sales and, if we experience sales in excess of our plan, our working capital needs and capital expenditures would likely increase from that currently anticipated. Our ability to meet this additional customer demand would depend on our ability to arrange for additional equity or debt financing since it is likely that cash flow from sales will lag behind these increased working capital requirements. 10 Our indebtedness and other obligations are substantial and could materially affect our business and our ability to incur additional debt to fund future needs. We have and will continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness and other obligations. As of March 31, 2012, we had approximately $71.2 million of total consolidated indebtedness. Included in this amount are $34.9 million of loans outstanding, net of discount, to an affiliate of Carl Berg, $33.3 million of accumulated interest associated with those loans and $3.0 million of principal and interest outstanding with a third party. The third party loan matures in June 2012. Our outstanding shares of Series C-1 Convertible Preferred Stock and Series C-2 Convertible Preferred Stock held by affiliates of Carl Berg are redeemable by the holders for up to $8.6 million, plus accrued dividends which, as of March 31, 2012, which were approximately $1.1 million. Our substantial indebtedness and other obligations could negatively affect our current and future operations. For example, it could: · limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes; · make us more vulnerable to failure to achieve our forecasted results, economic downturns, adverse industry conditions or catastrophic external events, limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing business and economic conditions; · place us at a disadvantage to our competitors that have relatively less debt than we have; or · cause us to cease business and liquidate our assets and operations. All of our assets are pledged as collateral under various loan agreements with Mr. Berg or related entities. If we fail to meet our obligations pursuant to these loan agreements, these lenders may declare all amounts borrowed from them, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon, to be due and payable. If this were to occur, we would not have the financial resources to repay our debt and these lenders could proceed against our assets. Our financial results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our product revenue, operating expenses and quarterly operating results have varied in the past and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result you should not rely on our operating results during any particular quarter as an indication of our future performance in any quarterly period or fiscal year. These factors include, among others: · timing of orders from our customers and the possibility that customers may change their order requirements with little or no notice to us; · rate of adoption of our energy storage systems; · deferral of customer orders in anticipation of new products from us or other providers of batteries and related technologies; · timing of deferred revenue components associated with large orders; · new product releases, licensing or pricing decisions by our competitors; · commodity and raw materials component prices; · lack of order backlog; · loss of a significant customer or distributor; · effect of changes to our product distribution strategy and pricing policies; · changes in the mix of domestic and international sales; · rate of growth of the markets for our products; and · other risks described in the Risk Factors section. The market for our products is evolving and it is difficult to predict its potential size or future growth rate. Many of the organizations that may purchase our products have invested substantial resources in their existing power systems and, as a result, have been reluctant or slow to adopt a new approach, particularly during a period of limited or reduced capital expenditures. Moreover, our current products are alternatives to existing systems and may never be accepted by our customers or may be made obsolete by other advances in related technologies. 11 Significant portions of our expenses are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to decreases in revenue. Therefore, if our revenue is below our expectations, our operating results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected. In addition, we may change our prices, modify our distribution strategy and policies, accelerate our investment in research and development, increase our sales or marketing efforts in response to competitive pressures or to pursue new market opportunities. Any one of these activities may further limit our ability to adjust spending in response to revenue fluctuations. We use forecasted revenue to establish our expense budget. Because most of our expenses are fixed in the short term or incurred in advance of anticipated revenue, any shortfall in revenue may result in significant losses. Our business will be adversely affected if our Lithium Iron Magnesium Phosphate technology-based batteries are not commercially accepted. We are researching and developing batteries based upon lithium iron phosphate chemistry. Our batteries are designed and manufactured as components for other companies and end-user customers. Our success depends on the acceptance of our batteries and the products using our batteries in their markets. Technical issues may arise that may affect the acceptance of our products by our customers. Market acceptance may also depend on a variety of other factors, including educating the target market regarding the benefits of our products. Market acceptance and market share are also affected by the timing of market introduction of competitive products. If we, or our customers, are unable to gain any significant market acceptance for our lithium phosphate technology-based batteries, our business will be adversely affected. It is too early to determine if our lithium phosphate technology-based batteries will achieve significant market acceptance. If we are unable to develop, manufacture and market products that gain wide customer acceptance, our business will be adversely affected. The process of developing our products is complex and our failure to anticipate our customers’ changing needs and to develop products that receive widespread customer acceptance could significantly harm our results of operations. We must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether our expectations will eventually result in products that the market will accept. After a product is developed, we must be able to manufacture sufficient volumes quickly and at low costs. To accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mix of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed. For example, if we are unable to develop, manufacture and market our Energy Storage Systems and gain wide customer acceptance of those systems, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. The sales cycles of our products can be lengthy, complex and unpredictable. Our sales cycles typically involve: ● a significant technical evaluation period; ● substantial time required to engineer the deployment of our technology; and ● substantial testing and acceptance of our products. For these and other reasons, our sales cycles can be between 6 and 24 months, but can last longer. If orders forecasted for a specific customer for a particular quarter do not occur in that quarter, our operating results for that quarter or subsequent quarters could be substantially lower than anticipated. Our quarterly and annual results may fluctuate significantly due to revenue recognition rules and the timing of the receipt of customer orders. We base our revenue forecasts on the estimated timing to complete the design, installation and integration of our customer projects and customer acceptance of those products. The systems of our customers are both diverse and complex, and our ability to configure, test and integrate our systems with other elements of our customers’ networks depends on technologies provided to our customers by third parties. As a result, the timing of our revenue related to the implementation of our solutions is difficult to predict and could result in lower than expected revenue in any particular quarter. Similarly, our ability to deploy our equipment in a timely fashion can be subject to a number of other risks, including the availability of skilled engineering and technical personnel and the availability of equipment produced by third parties. The demand for batteries in the transportation and other markets depends on the continuation of current trends resulting from dependence on fossil fuels. Extended periods of low fuel prices, changes in government regulations and public perception of fossil fuels and developments in alternative technologies could adversely affect demand for our batteries. We believe that much of the present and projected demand for advanced batteries in the transportation and other markets results from recent increases in the cost of oil, the dependency of the United States on oil from unstable or hostile countries, government regulations and economic incentives promoting fuel efficiency and alternate forms of energy, as well as the belief that climate change results in part from the burning of fossil fuels. Gasoline, diesel and other fuel prices have been extremely volatile, and this continuing volatility is expected to persist. Lower fuel prices over extended periods of time may lower the perception in government and the private sector that cheaper, more readily available energy alternatives should be developed and produced. Additionally, significant developments in alternative technologies, such as advanced diesel, ethanol, fuel cells or compressed natural gas, or improvements in the fuel economy of the internal combustion engine, may materially and adversely affect our business and prospects in ways we do not currently anticipate. For example, fuel which is abundant and relatively inexpensive in North America, such as compressed natural gas, may emerge as consumers’ preferred alternative to petroleum based propulsion. If the cost of oil decreased significantly, the outlook for the long-term supply of oil to the United States improved, the government eliminated or modified its regulations or economic incentives related to fuel efficiency and alternate forms of energy, there were significant developments in alternative technologies or if there is a change in the perception that the burning of fossil fuels negatively affects the environment, the demand for our batteries could be reduced, and our business, prospects and revenue may be harmed. Adverse business or financial conditions affecting the automotive industry may have a material adverse effect on our development and marketing partners and our battery business. We are seeking to enter into certain agreements with certain worldwide automotive manufacturers and tier 1 suppliers regarding their PHEV and EV development efforts. Certain of these manufacturers and suppliers have, in recent years, experienced lower than previously expected consumer demand for a variety of EV applications. As a result, automotive manufacturers may discontinue or delay their planned introduction of HEVs, PHEVs or EVs, or reduce their previously planned or forecasted production volumes of existing models as a result of reduced consumer demand or other factors. Automotive manufacturers may also seek alternative battery systems from other suppliers which may be more cost-effective or require fewer modifications in standard manufacturing processes than our products. Adverse business or financial conditions affecting individual automotive manufacturers or tier 1 suppliers or the automotive industry generally, including potential additional bankruptcies of automotive companies and their suppliers, as well as market disruption that could result from future consolidation in the automotive industry, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Automotive manufacturers may discontinue or delay their planned introduction of PHEVs or EVs as a result of adverse changes in their financial condition or other factors. Automotive manufacturers may also seek alternative battery systems from other suppliers which may be more cost-effective or require fewer modifications in standard manufacturing processes than our products, or which such firms believe are more stable financially. We also may experience delays or losses with respect to the collection of payments due from customers in the automotive industry experiencing financial difficulties. 12 Problems in our production processes could limit our ability to grow revenues and maintain our customer base. The manufacturing and assembly of our batteries and battery systems is a highly complex process that requires extreme precision and quality control throughout a number of production stages. Any defects in battery packaging, impurities in the materials used, contamination of the manufacturing environment, incorrect welding, excess moisture, equipment failure or other difficulties in the production process could reduce yields and affect our ability to produce a sufficient number of batteries to meet the demands of our customers. In the past, we have experienced production problems that limited our ability to produce a sufficient number of batteries to meet the demands of certain customers. For example, during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010 and the first and second quarters of fiscal year 2011, we experienced component shortages from certain manufacturing supply vendors, and we also experienced quality issues with certain components supplied by third party suppliers during fiscal year 2011. These problems resulted in the temporary postponements of certain shipments to our customers, and the problems also resulted in the return of certain products already shipped to our customers for rework or replacement. Although we identified and have taken corrective actions for these issues, if these or other production problems recur and we are unable to resolve them in a timely fashion, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow revenues and maintain our customer base. We have underutilized manufacturing capacity that may limit our ability to become profitable. Through our wholly owned foreign entities in China, we lease and have equipped a 173,000 square foot facility for manufacturing and testing of our batteries. To be financially successful, and to fully utilize the capacity of this facility and allocate its associated overhead, we must achieve significantly higher sales volumes. We must accomplish this while also preserving the quality levels we achieved when manufacturing these products in more limited quantities. To date, we have not been successful at increasing our sales volume to a level that fully utilizes the capacity of the facility and we may never increase our sales volume to necessary levels. If we do not reach these necessary sales volume levels, or if we cannot sell our products at our suggested prices, our ability to reach profitability will be materially limited. We have limited experience manufacturing our products in large quantities. Achieving the necessary production levels for our products presents a number of technological and engineering challenges for us. We have limited experience manufacturing our products in high volume. We do not know whether or when we will be able to develop efficient, low-cost manufacturing capability and processes that will enable us to meet the quality, price, engineering, design and product standards or production volumes required to successfully manufacture large quantities of our products. Even if we are successful in developing our manufacturing capability and processes, we do not know whether we will do so in time to meet our product commercialization schedule or to satisfy the requirements of our customers. If our products fail to perform as expected, we could lose existing and future business, and our ability to develop, market and sell our batteries could be harmed. The market perception of our products and related acceptance of our products is highly dependent upon the quality and reliability of the products that we build. Any quality problems attributable to our product lines may substantially impair our revenue prospects. Moreover, quality problems for our product lines could cause us to delay or cease shipments of products or have to recall or field upgrade products, thus adversely affecting our ability to meet revenue or cost targets. In addition, while we seek to limit our liability as a result of product failure or defects through warranty and other limitations, if one of our products fails, a customer could suffer a significant loss and seek to hold us responsible for that loss. Our failure to cost-effectively manufacture our technologically-complex batteries in commercial quantities which satisfy our customers’ product specifications and their expectations for product quality and delivery could damage our customer relationships and result in significant lost business opportunities for us. To be successful, we must cost-effectively manufacture commercial quantities of our technologically-complex batteries that meet our customer specifications for quality and timely delivery. To facilitate commercialization of our products, we will need to continuously reduce our manufacturing costs, which we intend to do through the effective utilization of manufacturing partners and continuous improvement of our manufacturing and development operations in our wholly owned foreign enterprises in China. We currently manufacture our batteries and assemble our products in China. We are dependent on the performance of our manufacturing partners, as well as our own manufacturing operations to manufacture and deliver our products to our customers. We have experienced component supply issues, which in some cases have limited our ability to produce a sufficient number of batteries to fulfill our customers’ demands. For example, during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010 and the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, our anticipated revenue was adversely affected due to quality issues with the cylindrical cells we purchased from a third party supplier that are included in our batteries, and the temporary suspension of certain areas of production and certain shipments at our China facility in order to implement a component change on a circuit board. If we fail to correct these issues in a timely manner that allows us to meet customer demand, or if any of our manufacturing partners are unable to manufacture products in commercial quantities on a timely and cost-effective basis, we could lose our customers and adversely affect our ability to attract future customers. 13 In addition to being used in our own product lines, our battery cells are intended to be incorporated into other products. If we do not form effective arrangements with OEMs to commercialize these products, our profitability could be impaired. Our business strategy contemplates that we will be required to rely on assistance from OEMs to gain market acceptance for our products. We therefore will need to identify acceptable OEMs and enter into agreements with them. Once we identify acceptable OEMs and enter into agreements with them, we will need to meet these companies’ requirements by developing and introducing new products and enhanced or modified versions of our existing products on a timely basis. OEMs often require unique configurations or custom designs for batteries, which must be developed and integrated into their product well before the product is launched. This development process not only requires substantial lead-time between the commencement of design efforts for a customized power system and the commencement of volume shipments of the power systems to the customer, but also requires the cooperation and assistance of the OEMs for purposes of determining the requirements for each specific application. We may have technical issues that arise that may affect the acceptance of our product by OEMs. If we are unable to design, develop, and introduce products that meet OEMs’ requirements, we may lose opportunities to enter into additional purchase orders and our reputation may be damaged. As a result, we may not receive adequate assistance from OEMs or pack assemblers to further commercialize our products, which could impair our profitability. Our dependence on a limited number of suppliers for key raw materials may delay our production of batteries. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for our cylindrical cells, and a limited number of suppliers for certain other key raw materials, such as electrolyte anode material, cylindrical cell manufacturing, and printed circuit boards used in manufacturing and developing our power systems. We generally purchase raw materials pursuant to purchase orders placed from time to time and have no long-term contracts or other guaranteed supply arrangements with our sole or limited source suppliers. As a result, our suppliers may not be able to meet our requirements relative to specifications and volumes for key raw materials, and we may not be able to locate alternative sources of supply at an acceptable cost. For example, during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010 and the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, we experienced production delays as a result of quality issues with cylindrical cells supplied by our sole supplier of cylindrical cells at that time, Tianjin Lishen Battery Joint-Stock Co., Ltd. In an attempt to mitigate this type of issue in the future, we engaged Amperex Technology Ltd. as an additional cell supplier in the first quarter of fiscal year 2011. In addition, we qualified a third supplier of cylindrical cells, BAK International (TIANJIN) Limited China ("BAK"), in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012. Where practical, we will continue to procure like products from multiple suppliers. In the past, we have also experienced delays in product development due to the delivery of nonconforming raw materials from our suppliers. If in the future we are unable to obtain high quality raw materials in sufficient quantities, on competitive pricing terms and on a timely basis, it may delay battery production, impede our ability to fulfill existing or future purchase orders and harm our reputation and profitability. Should we begin to sell an increasing portion of our products to customers located outside the United States, foreign government regulations, currency fluctuations and increased costs associated with international sales could make our products unaffordable in foreign markets, which would reduce our future profitability. International sales of our products represent a significant portion of our sales potential. International business can be subject to many inherent risks that are difficult or impossible for us to predict or control, including: · changes in foreign government regulations and technical standards, including additional regulation of rechargeable batteries, technology, or the transport of lithium or phosphate, which may reduce or eliminate our ability to sell or license in certain markets; · foreign governments may impose tariffs, quotas, and taxes on our batteries or our import of technology into their countries; · requirements or preferences of foreign nations for domestic products could reduce demand for our batteries and our technology; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar could make our batteries and our technology unaffordable to foreign purchasers and licensees or more expensive compared to those of foreign manufacturers and licensors; · longer payment cycles typically associated with international sales and potential difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, which may reduce the future profitability of our foreign sales and royalties; · import and export licensing requirements in Europe and other regions, including China, where we intend to conduct business, which may reduce or eliminate our ability to sell or license in certain markets; and · political and economic instability in countries where we currently conduct business and in countries where we intend to conduct additional business may reduce the demand for our batteries and our technology or our ability to market our batteries and our technology in those countries. These risks may increase our costs of doing business internationally and reduce our sales and royalties or future profitability. 14 Our business depends on certain key personnel, the loss of whom could weaken our management team, and on attracting and retaining qualified personnel. The growth of our business and our success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled management, technical, research and development, manufacturing, sales and marketing and other operating and administrative personnel, particularly those who are familiar with and experienced in the battery industry. If we cannot attract and retain experienced sales and marketing executives, we may not achieve the visibility in the marketplace that we need to obtain purchase orders, which would have the result of lowering our sales and earnings. Our key personnel include our Chief Executive Officer, Robert L. Kanode, all of our other executive officers and our vice presidents, many of whom have very specialized scientific or operational knowledge regarding one or more of our key products. Such persons are in high demand and often receive competing employment offers from numerous other companies, including larger, more established competitors who have significantly greater financial resources than we do. We are still seeking a replacement for our former chief financial officer who resigned effective June 2011, and there can be no guarantee that we will find a suitable replacement in the near future. We do not maintain key-person life insurance on any of our employees. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to attract and retain additional personnel and develop expertise as needed could limit our ability to develop and commercialize our existing and future products. We may need to expand our employee base and operations to effectively distribute our products commercially, which may strain our management and resources and could harm our business. To implement our growth strategy successfully, we may have to increase our staff in China, with personnel in manufacturing, engineering, sales, marketing, and product support capabilities, as well as third party and direct distribution channels. However, we face the risk that we may not be able to attract new employees or retain existing employees to sufficiently increase our staff or product support capabilities, or that we will not be successful in our sales and marketing efforts. Additionally, turnover in key management positions in China could impair our ability to execute our plans for growth and adversely affect our future profitability. Product liability or other claims could cause us to incur losses or damage our reputation. The risk of product liability claims and associated adverse publicity is inherent in the development, manufacturing, marketing and sale of our batteries and battery systems, which are incorporated in third party commercial products, such as automotive and marine vehicles, industrial products, military transport and equipment and medical equipment. Certain materials we use in our batteries, as well as our batteries and battery systems, could, if used improperly, cause injuries to persons and damage to property. We are also subject to a risk of claims for injuries and damages caused by third party products that incorporate our batteries. In addition, our business could be harmed by adverse publicity resulting from problems or accidents caused by our batteries or third party products that incorporate our batteries. Although we maintain general liability insurance and product liability insurance, our insurance may not be adequate to cover all potential types of product liability claims to which we are exposed or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed on us. In addition, while we often seek to limit our product liability in our contracts, such limits may not be enforceable or may be subject to exceptions. Any successful product liability claim against us in excess of our coverage, or outside of our coverage, could require us to pay a substantial monetary award and could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and reputation. We cannot be assured that such claims against us will not be made in the future. Our patent applications may not result in issued patents, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to commercially exploit our products. Patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued or are published. Since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries by several months, we cannot be certain that we are the first creator of inventions covered by pending patent applications or the first to file patent applications on these inventions. We also cannot be certain that our pending patent applications will result in issued patents or that any of our issued patents will afford protection against a competitor. In addition, patent applications filed in foreign countries are subject to laws, rules and procedures that differ from those of the United States, and thus we cannot be certain that foreign patent applications related to issued U.S. patents will be issued. Furthermore, if these patent applications issue, some foreign countries provide significantly less effective patent enforcement than in the United States. The status of patents involves complex legal and factual questions and the breadth of claims allowed is uncertain. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that the patent applications that we file will result in patents being issued, or that our patents and any patents that may be issued to us in the future will afford protection against competitors with similar technology. In addition, patents issued to us may be infringed upon or designed around by others and others may obtain patents that we need to license or design around, either of which would increase costs and may adversely affect our operations. If we cannot protect or enforce our existing intellectual property rights or if our pending patent applications do not result in issued patents, we may lose the advantages of our research and manufacturing systems. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on whether we can protect our existing proprietary technology and manufacturing processes. We rely on a combination of patent and trade secret protection, non-disclosure agreements and cross-licensing agreements. These measures may not be adequate to safeguard the proprietary technology underlying our batteries. Employees, consultants, and others who participate in the development of our products may breach their non-disclosure agreements with us, and we may not have adequate remedies in the event of their breaches. Furthermore, our competitors may be able to develop products that are equal or superior to our products without infringing on any of our intellectual property rights. We currently manufacture and export some of our products from China. The legal regime protecting intellectual property rights in China is weak. Because the Chinese legal system in general, and the intellectual property regime in particular, are weak, it is often difficult to enforce intellectual property rights in China. Moreover, there are other countries where effective copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited. Even where intellectual property enforcement is strong, enforcing our intellectual property against competitors and other infringers is time-consuming and extremely expensive. Financial and human resources for further enforcement efforts concurrent with those already underway are limited. Accordingly, we may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights outside of the United States. 15 Intellectual property infringement claims brought against us could be time-consuming and expensive to defend, and if any of our products or processes is found to be infringing, we may not be able to procure licenses to use patents necessary to our business on reasonable terms, if at all. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. For example, we have been named in a lawsuit which alleges that our patented lithium iron magnesium phosphate cathode material infringes two patents owned by the Hydro Quebec that we describe in further detail in “Item 3. “Legal Proceedings”. An adverse decision in this or any other similar litigation could force us to do one or more of the following: · stop selling, incorporating, or using our products that use the patented lithium iron magnesium phosphate cathode material intellectual property; · pay damages for the use of patented lithium iron magnesium phosphate cathode material; · obtain a license to sell or use the patented lithium iron magnesium phosphate cathode material, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or · redesign those products or manufacturing processes that use the patented lithium iron magnesium phosphate cathode material, which may not be economically or technologically feasible. We may become involved in additional litigation and proceedings in the future. Likewise, we may in the future be subject to claims or an inquiry regarding our alleged unauthorized use of a third party’s intellectual property. An adverse outcome in such future litigation could result in similar risks as noted above with respect to the third party’s intellectual property. Whether or not an intellectual property litigation claim is valid, the cost of responding to it, in terms of legal fees and expenses and the diversion of management resources, could be expensive and harm our business. Failure to implement an effective licensing business strategy will adversely affect our revenue, cash flow and profitability. Our long-term business strategy anticipates achieving significant revenue from the licensing of our intellectual property assets, such as our patented lithium iron magnesium phosphate technology. However, we have not yet entered into any licensing agreements for our patented lithium iron magnesium phosphate technology. Our future operating results could be adversely affected by a variety of factors including: · our ability to secure and maintain significant licensees of our proprietary technology; · the extent to which our future licensees successfully incorporate our technology into their products; · the acceptance of new or enhanced versions of our technology; · the rate at which our licensees manufacture and distribute their products to OEMs; and · our ability to secure one-time license fees and ongoing royalties for our technology from licensees. Our future success will also depend on our ability to execute our licensing operations simultaneously with our other business activities. If we fail to substantially expand our licensing activities while maintaining our other business activities, our results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. In the past, we have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Although we believe that we have remediated those material weaknesses and concluded our controls are effective as of March 31, 2012, if we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls in the future, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors' views of us. 16 Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to provide a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such internal control. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be evaluated frequently. In connection with our financial audit in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, we identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by the company's internal controls. While we remediated those material weaknesses and have not had any other material weaknesses since then, we cannot assure you that material weaknesses will not occur in future periods. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may distract our officers and employees from other matters, entail substantial costs to implement new processes and modify our existing processes and take significant time to complete. Moreover, these changes do not guarantee that we will be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and harm our business. In addition, investors' perceptions that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis may harm our stock price and make it more difficult for us to effectively market and sell our products to new and existing customers. Our international business operations could be disrupted. Our headquarters is located in Austin, Texas and our research and development center is in Las Vegas, Nevada. We also operate a sales and service facility in Mallusk, Northern Ireland, and our manufacturing operations in Suzhou, China. If major disasters such as earthquakes, fires, floods, hurricanes, tsunamis, wars, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, pandemics or other events occur, or our information system or communications network breaks down or operates improperly, our facilities may be seriously damaged, or we may have to stop or delay production and shipment of our products. We may incur expenses relating to such damages. In addition, a renewed outbreak of SARS, avian flu, swine flu or another widespread public health problem in China, Northern Ireland or the United States could have a negative effect on our operations. Risks Associated With Doing Business In China Since our products are manufactured in China and we have significant operations in China, we face risks if China loses normal trade relations status with the United States. We manufacture and export our products from China. Our products sold in the United States are currently not subject to U.S. import duties. On September 19, 2000, the United States Senate voted to permanently normalize trade with China, which provides a favorable category of United States import duties. In addition, on December 11, 2001, China was accepted into the World Trade Organization, or WTO, a global international organization that regulates international trade. As a result of opposition to certain policies of the Chinese government and China’s growing trade surpluses with the United States, there has been, and in the future may be, opposition to the extension of Normal Trade Relations, or NTR, status for China. The loss of NTR status for China, changes in current tariff structures or adoption in the United States of other trade policies adverse to China could have an adverse affect on our business. Furthermore, our business may be adversely affected by the diplomatic and political relationships between the United States and China. These influences may adversely affect our ability to operate in China. If the relationship between the United States and China were to materially deteriorate, it could negatively affect our ability to control our operations and relationships in China, enforce any agreements we have with Chinese manufacturers or otherwise deal with any assets or investments we may have in China. Because the Chinese legal system in general, and the intellectual property regime in particular, are weak, we may not be able to enforce intellectual property rights in China and elsewhere. We currently manufacture and export our products from China. The legal regime protecting intellectual property rights in China is weak. Because the Chinese legal system in general, and the intellectual property regime in particular, are weak, it is often difficult to create and enforce intellectual property rights in China. Even where adequate laws exist in China, it may not be possible to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of such laws, or to obtain enforcement of a court judgment or an arbitration award delivered in another jurisdiction, and accordingly, we may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in China. Enforcing agreements and laws in China is difficult or may be impossible as China does not have a comprehensive system of laws. 17 We are dependent on our agreements with our Chinese manufacturing partners. Enforcement of agreements may be sporadic and implementation and interpretation of laws may be inconsistent. The Chinese judiciary is relatively inexperienced in interpreting agreements and enforcing the laws, leading to a higher than usual degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. Even where adequate law exists in China, it may be impossible to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of such law, or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court of another jurisdiction. The government of China may change or even reverse its policies of promoting private industry and foreign investment, in which case our assets and operations may be at risk. China is a socialist state, which since 1949 has been, and is expected to continue to be, controlled by the Communist Party of China. Our existing and planned operations in China are subject to the general risks of doing business internationally and the specific risks related to the business, economic and political conditions in China, which include the possibility that the central government of China will change or even reverse its policies of promoting private industry and foreign investment in China. Many of the current reforms which support private business in China are unprecedented or experimental. Other political, economic and social factors, such as political changes, changes in the rates of economic growth, unemployment or inflation, or in the disparities of per capita wealth among citizens of China and between regions within China, could also lead to further readjustment of the government’s reform measures. It is not possible to predict whether the Chinese government will continue to be as supportive of private business in China, nor is it possible to predict how future reforms will affect our business. The government of China continues to exercise substantial control over the Chinese economy which could have a negative effect on our business. The government of China has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every section of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. China’s continued commitment to reform and the development of a vital private sector in that country have, to some extent, limited the practical effects of the control currently exercised by the government over individual enterprises. However, the economy continues to be subject to significant government controls, which, if directed towards our business activities, could have a significant adverse effect on us. For example, if the government were to limit the number of foreign personnel who could work in the country, substantially increase taxes on foreign businesses or impose any number of other possible types of limitations on our operations, our ability to conduct our business would be significantly adversely affected. Changes in China’s political and economic policies could harm our business. The economy of China has historically been a planned economy subject to governmental plans and quotas and has, in certain aspects, been transitioning to a more market-oriented economy. Although we believe that the economic reform and the macroeconomic measures adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of China, we cannot predict the future direction of these economic reforms or the effects these measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. In addition, the Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD. These differences include: · economic structure; · level of government involvement in the economy; · level of development; · level of capital reinvestment; · control of foreign exchange; · methods of allocating resources; and · balance of payments position. As a result of these differences, our operations, including our current manufacturing operations in China, may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to the OECD member countries. Business practices in China may entail greater risk and dependence upon the personal relationships of senior management than is common in North America and therefore some of our agreements with other parties in China could be difficult or impossible to enforce. 18 The business structure of China is, in many respects, different from the business culture in Western countries and may present some difficulty for Western investors reviewing contractual relationships among companies in China and evaluating the merits of an investment. Personal relationships among business principals of companies and business entities in China are very significant in the business culture. In some cases, because so much reliance is based upon personal relationships, written contracts among businesses in China may be less detailed and specific than is commonly accepted for similar written agreements in Western countries. In some cases, the material terms of an understanding are not contained in the written agreement but exist as oral agreements only. In other cases, the terms of transactions which may involve material amounts of money are not documented at all. In addition, in contrast to Western business practices where a written agreement specifically defines the terms, rights and obligations of the parties in a legally-binding and enforceable manner, the parties to a written agreement in China may view that agreement more as a starting point for an ongoing business relationship which will evolve and require ongoing modification. As a result, written agreements in China may appear to the Western reader to look more like outline agreements that precede a formal written agreement. While these documents may appear incomplete or unenforceable to a Western reader, the parties to the agreement in China may feel that they have a more complete understanding than is apparent to someone who is only reading the written agreement without having attended the negotiations. As a result, contractual arrangements in China may be more difficult to review and understand. Also, despite legal developments in China over the past 20 years, adequate laws, comparable with Western standards, do not exist in all areas and it is unclear how many of our business arrangements would be interpreted or enforced by a court in China. Our ongoing manufacturing and development operations in China are complex and having these remote operations may divert management’s attention, lead to disruptions in operations and delay implementation of our business strategy. We have relocated most of our manufacturing and development operations to China. We may not be able to find or retain suitable employees in China and we may have to train personnel to perform necessary functions for our manufacturing, senior management and development operations. This may divert management’s attention, lead to disruptions in operations and delay implementation of our business strategy, all of which could negatively affect our profitability. Our operations could be materially interrupted, and we may suffer significant loss, in the case of fire, casualty or theft at one of our manufacturing or other facilities. Firefighting and disaster relief or assistance in China is substandard by Western standards. In the event of any material damage to, or loss of, the manufacturing plants where our products are or will be produced due to fire, casualty, theft, severe weather, flood, tsunami or other similar causes, we would be forced to replace any assets lost in such disaster. Thus our financial position could be materially compromised or we might have to cease doing business. We maintain insurance in China in an attempt to minimize this risk, but we cannot be sure that such insurance will be sufficient. In October 2009, we experienced a fire in a leased, unoccupied, offsite warehouse facility housing certain of our raw materials, finished goods inventory, and fixed assets, in Suzhou, China. Management concluded that a material charge for impairment with respect to certain inventory and fixed assets was required under GAAP, and we recorded a liability for the payment of Chinese VAT with respect to certain inventory which was consumed by the fire. Although insurance proceeds covered a significant portion of this loss, we cannot be sure that a fire or other similarly destructive event at one of our facilities in the future would not materially affect our financial position or disrupt our operations. The system of taxation in China is uncertain and subject to unpredictable change that could affect our profitability. Many tax rules are not published in China and those that are published can be ambiguous and contradictory, leaving a considerable amount of discretion to local tax authorities. China currently offers tax and other preferential incentives to encourage foreign investment. However, the country’s tax regime is undergoing review and there is no assurance that such tax and other incentives will continue to be made available. If we no longer receive such preferential incentives, our business, prospects and results of operations would be adversely affected. It is uncertain whether we will be able to recover value-added taxes imposed by the Chinese taxing authority. China’s turnover tax system consists of value-added tax, or VAT, consumption tax and business tax. Export sales are exempted under VAT rules and an exporter who incurs VAT on purchase or manufacture of goods should be able to claim a refund from Chinese tax authorities. However, due to a reduction in the VAT export refund rate of some goods, exporters might bear part of the VAT they incurred in conjunction with the exported goods. Continued efforts by the Chinese government to increase tax revenues could result in revisions to tax laws or their interpretation, which could increase our VAT and various tax liabilities. Risks Associated With Our Industry If competing technologies were developed and successfully introduced, then our products might not be able to compete effectively in our targeted market segments. Rapid and ongoing changes in technology and product standards could quickly render our products less competitive, or even obsolete. Other companies who are seeking to enhance traditional battery technologies, such as lead-acid and nickel-cadmium, have introduced or are developing batteries based on nickel metal-hydride, liquid lithium-ion and other emerging and potential technologies. These competitors are engaged in significant development work on these various battery systems, and we believe that much of this effort is focused on achieving higher energy densities for low power applications such as portable electronics. One or more new, higher energy rechargeable battery technologies could be introduced which could be directly competitive with, or superior to, our technology. The capabilities of many of these competing technologies have improved over the past several years. Competing technologies that outperform our batteries could be developed and successfully introduced, and as a result, there is a risk that our products may not be able to compete effectively in our targeted market segments. 19 We have invested in research and development of next-generation technology in energy solutions. If we are not successful in developing and commercially exploiting new energy solutions based on new materials, or we experience delays in the development and exploitations of new energy solutions compared to our competitors, our future growth and revenues will be adversely affected. Our principal competitors generally have greater financial and marketing resources than we do and they may therefore develop batteries similar or superior to ours or otherwise compete more successfully than we do. Competition in the rechargeable battery industry is intense. The industry consists of several major and emerging domestic and international companies, most of which have financial, technical, marketing, sales, manufacturing, distribution and other resources substantially greater than ours. There is a risk that other companies may develop batteries similar or superior to ours. In addition, many of these companies have strong name recognition, established positions in the market, and long-standing relationships with OEMs and other customers. Further, a number of our competitors have received or may in the future receive grants, subsidies or incentives from federal, local and state governments, which may provide them with lower cost capital and a competitive advantage. We believe that our primary competitors are existing suppliers of cylindrical lithium-ion, nickel cadmium, nickel metal-hydride and in some cases, non-SLI lead-acid batteries. These suppliers include, but are not limited to; A123 Systems, LG Chem, Matsushita Industrial Co., Ltd. (Panasonic), Sony, Toshiba, SAFT and Dow–Kokam, as well as numerous lead-acid manufacturers throughout the world. Most of these companies are very large and have substantial resources and market presence. We expect that we will compete against manufacturers of other types of batteries in our targeted application segments, and we may not be able to compete successfully against such manufacturers. Laws regulating the manufacture, transportation and disposal of batteries may be enacted which could result in a delay in the production of our batteries or the imposition of additional costs that could harm our ability to be profitable. At the present time, international, federal, state and local laws do not directly regulate the storage, use and disposal of the component parts of our batteries. However, laws and regulations may be enacted in the future which could impose environmental, health and safety controls on the storage, use and disposal of certain chemicals and metals used in the manufacture of lithium polymer batteries. Satisfying any future laws or regulations could require significant time and resources from our technical staff, including those related to possible redesign which may result in substantial expenditures and delays in the production of our product, all of which could harm our business and adversely impact our ability to become profitable in the future. The transportation of lithium-ion batteries is regulated both domestically and internationally. Our U-Charge® Power System is classified as a Class 9 hazardous material for shipping purposes pursuant to regulations published by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) and the International Air Transport Association (IATA). We package and offer for transport our U-Charge® Power System in compliance with all DOT and IATA regulatory requirements. National, state, local and foreign regulations impose various environmental controls on the transportation, storage, use, and disposal of lithium batteries and of certain chemicals used in the manufacture of lithium batteries. Although we believe that our operations are in material compliance with current environmental regulations, there can be no assurance that changes in such laws and regulations will not impose costly compliance requirements on us or otherwise subject us to future liabilities. Moreover, state, local, and foreign governments may enact additional restrictions relating to the transportation, storage and disposal of lithium batteries used by our customers that could adversely affect the demand for our products. There can be no assurance that additional or modified regulations relating to the transportation, storage, use, and disposal of chemicals used to manufacture batteries, or restricting disposal of batteries will not be imposed. Satisfying these existing and any future laws or regulations not currently enacted or imposed could require significant time and resources from our technical staff, including those related to possible redesign of our products, which may result in substantial expenditures and delays in the production of our product, all of which could harm our business and reduce our future profitability. Risks Associated With Ownership of Our Stock Corporate insiders or their affiliates will be able to exercise significant control over matters requiring stockholder approval that might not be in the best interests of our stockholders as a whole. As of March 31, 2012, our officers, directors and their affiliates as a group beneficially owned approximately 52% of our outstanding common stock, of which our Chairman Carl Berg and his affiliates beneficially owned approximately 49% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise significant control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, which could delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. The interest of our officers and directors, when acting in their capacity as stockholders, may lead them to: · vote for the election of directors who agree with the incumbent officers’ or directors’ preferred corporate policy; or 20 · oppose or support significant corporate transactions when these transactions further their interest as incumbent officers or directors, even if these interests differ from the interests of other stockholders. Some provisions of our charter documents may make takeover attempts difficult, which could depress the price of our stock and limit the price that potential acquirers may be willing to pay for our common stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without any action by non-affiliate stockholders, to issue additional shares of our preferred stock, which shares may be given superior voting, liquidation, distribution, and other rights compared to those of our common stock. The rights of the holders of our capital stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of additional shares of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. These provisions may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over its market price, may decrease the market price and may infringe upon the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. We are not currently in compliance with the continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market and our common stock could be de-listed if we do not regain compliance within the required time period. On December 13, 2011, we received written notice from The NASDAQ Stock Market indicating that we were not in compliance with the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement for continued listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market, as set forth in Listing Rule 5550(a)(2). We have been provided 180 calendar days, or until June 11, 2012, to regain compliance. To regain compliance, the bid price of our common stock must close at $1.00 or higher for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days within the stated 180-day period. If we are not in compliance by June 11, 2012, we may be afforded a second 180 calendar day grace period if we meet the NASDAQ Capital Market initial listing criteria (except for the minimum bid price requirement), as set forth in Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A). However, we do not currently meet such initial listing criteria because of our deficit in stockholder's equity. If we do not regain compliance within the allotted compliance period, that is, by June 11, 2012, our common stock will be subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market. We would then be entitled to appeal the NASDAQ Staff’s determination to a NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel and request a hearing. Since December 13, 2011, our closing stock price has been mostly below $1.00 per share and we have not yet regained compliance with the NASDAQ listing requirement. Given the volatility of our stock and trends in the stock market in general, there can be no assurance that we will regain compliance with the NASDAQ listing requirement. If we are not able to regain compliance, our stock could be de-listed and it could have a materially adverse effect on the price and liquidity of our common stock. Our stock price is volatile, which could result in a loss of your investment. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, the sales price of our common stock ranged from $0.72 to $1.60 per share. Factors that may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock include the following: · fluctuation in our operating results, · the loss of or reduction in business from one or more of our key customers, · announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors, · failure to achieve operating results projected by securities analysts or public guidance, · changes in governmental regulation, · developments in our patent or other proprietary rights or our competitors’ developments, · our relationships with current or future collaborative partners, · the status of the continued listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Stock Market, and · other factors and events beyond our control. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. As a result of this potential stock price volatility, investors may be unable to sell their shares of our common stock at or above the cost of their shares. In addition, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have often been the object of securities class action litigation. If we were the subject of securities class action litigation, this could result in substantial costs, a diversion of our management’s attention and resources and harm to our business and financial condition. 21 Future sales of currently outstanding shares could adversely affect our stock price. The market price of our common stock could drop as a result of sales of a large number of shares in the market or in response to the perception that these sales could occur. In addition, these sales might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of March 31, 2012, we had 169,976,618 shares of common stock outstanding and 1,803,144 shares in treasury stock. In addition, at March 31, 2012, we had 8,533,294 shares of our common stock reserved for issuance under stock options plans and 215,000 shares of our common stock reserved for issuance upon exercise of warrants. In connection with the potential conversion of the Series C-1 Convertible Preferred Stock and Series C-2 Convertible Preferred Stock, issued on December 1, 2004, we may need to issue up to 2,174,242 and 1,454,392 shares, respectively, of our common stock (based on a conversion price per share of $1.98 and $2.96, respectively, which is the lowest conversion price that may apply) (in addition to any shares that may be issued with respect to the conversion of accrued dividends). Equity transactions occurring in the future, including sales under our At Market Issuance Sales Agreement with Wm. Smith, would result in immediate ownership dilution to current equity holders and, as a result, our stock price may go down. Future equity transactions, including the sale of shares of common stock or preferred stock, sales under our At Market Issuance Sales Agreement, or the exercise of options or warrants or other convertible securities, would result in ownership dilution and, as a result, our stock price may go down. In February 2008, we entered into an At Market Agreement with Wm. Smith & Co., which was amended in July 2009, December 2010, January 2011, and June 2011, and which provides that, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth therein, we may, through Wm. Smith & Co. acting as sales agent, issue and sell up to 30 million shares of our common stock. As of March 31, 2012, a total of 24.6 million of the aggregate shares authorized for sale through Wm. Smith & Co. have been sold and 5.4 million remain available for future issuance under the agreement. Further, as opportunities present themselves from time to time, we may sell restricted stock and warrants or convertible debt to investors in private placements conducted by broker-dealers, or in negotiated transactions. Because the securities may be restricted, the securities may be sold at a greater discount to market prices compared to a public securities offering, and the exercise price of the warrants may be at or even lower than market prices. These transactions cause ownership dilution to existing stockholders. Also, from time to time, options may be issued to employees and third parties. Exercise of in-the-money options, warrants and other convertible securities will result in ownership dilution to existing stockholders, and the amount of dilution will depend on the spread between market and exercise price, and the number of shares involved. Our management team has broad discretion over the use of the net proceeds from any offering by us of our equity securities, including sales under our At Market Issuance Sales Agreement. Our management will use its discretion to direct the net proceeds from any offering of our equity securities. We intend to use all of the net proceeds of any additional sales under our At Market Agreement, together with cash on hand, for general corporate purposes, although we could use the proceeds for other purposes as well. General corporate purposes may include working capital, capital expenditures, development costs, strategic investments or possible acquisitions. Our management’s judgments may not result in positive returns on stockholders’ investments and our stockholders will not have an opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial or other information upon which our management bases its decisions. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock, and therefore stockholders will be able to recover their investment in our common stock, if at all, only by selling the shares of stock that they hold. Some investors favor companies that pay dividends on common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Because we do not plan to pay dividends, a return on an investment in our stock depends on the ability to sell our stock at a profit. Our business is subject to changing regulations relating to corporate governance and public disclosure that has increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. Because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC, and NASDAQ continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. Our efforts to comply with these regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, materially increased general and administrative expenses and a significant diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating and cost-reduction activities to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal control over financial reporting and our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit of that assessment has required, and continues to require, the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. There is no assurance that these efforts will be completed on a timely and successful basis. Because these laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance becomes available. This evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to our disclosure and governance practices. 22 In the event that our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, or independent registered public accounting firm determines that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, there may be a material adverse effect in investor perceptions and a decline in the market price of our stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 