Item 1A. Risk FactorsOur business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Form 10-K, including those risks set forth under the heading entitled “Forward-Looking Statements”, and in other documents that we file with the SEC and the CSA, before making any investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the risks or uncertainties actually occur or develop, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could change. Under these circumstances, the market value of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in our securities.Competitive RisksWe operate in extremely competitive industries. If competitors develop or acquire more effective or less costly pharmaceutical products or medical devices for our target indications, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.The pharmaceutical and medical device industries are extremely competitive. Our success and future growth depend, in part, on our ability to acquire, license or develop products that are more effective than those of our competitors or that incorporate the latest technologies and our ability to effectively manufacture and market those products. Many of our competitors, particularly larger pharmaceutical and medical device companies, have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do. Many of our competitors spend significantly more on research and development related activities than we do. Others may succeed in developing or acquiring products that are more effective or less costly than those currently marketed or proposed for development by us. In addition, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private organizations conducting research may seek patent protection with respect to potentially competitive products and may also establish exclusive collaborative or licensing relationships with our competitors. These competitors and the introduction of competing products (that may be more effective or less costly than our products) could make our products less competitive or obsolete, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.Products representing a significant amount of our revenue are not protected by patent or data exclusivity rights or are nearing the end of their exclusivity period. In addition, we have faced generic competition in the past and expect to face additional generic competition in the future. Competitors (including generic competitors) of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.A significant number of the products we sell have no meaningful exclusivity protection via patent or data exclusivity rights or are protected by patents or regulatory exclusivity periods that will be expiring in the near future. These products represent a significant amount of our revenues. Without exclusivity protection, competitors face fewer barriers in introducing competing products. Upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for our products, or upon the “at-risk” launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a generic competitor of a generic version of our products (which may be sold at significantly lower prices than our products), we could lose a significant portion of sales of that product in a very short period. The introduction of competing products (including generic products) could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Acquisition-related RisksWe have grown at a very rapid pace. Our inability to properly manage or support this growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.We have grown very rapidly over the past few years as a result of our acquisitions. This growth has put significant demands on our processes, systems and people. We have made and expect to make further investments in additional personnel, systems and internal control processes to help manage our growth. If we are unable to successfully manage and support our rapid growth and the challenges and difficulties associated with managing a larger, more complex business, this could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, and the market value of our common stock could decline.We may be unable to identify, acquire, close or integrate acquisition targets successfully.Part of our business strategy includes acquiring and integrating complementary businesses, products, technologies or other assets, and forming strategic alliances, joint ventures and other business combinations, to help drive future growth. We may also in-license new products or compounds. Acquisitions or similar arrangements may be complex, time consuming and expensive. In some cases, we move very rapidly to negotiate and consummate the transaction, once we identify the acquisition target. We may not consummate some negotiations for acquisitions or other arrangements, which could result in significant diversion of 10management and other employee time, as well as substantial out-of-pocket costs. In addition, there are a number of risks and uncertainties relating to our closing transactions. If such transactions are not completed for any reason, we will be subject to several risks, including the following: (i) the market price of our common shares may reflect a market assumption that such transactions will occur, and a failure to complete such transactions could result in a negative perception by the market of us generally and a decline in the market price of our common shares; and (ii) many costs relating to the such transactions may be payable by us whether or not such transactions are completed.If an acquisition is consummated, the integration of the acquired business, product or other assets into our Company may also be complex and time-consuming and, if such businesses, products and assets are not successfully integrated, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits, cost-savings or growth opportunities. Potential difficulties that may be encountered in the integration process include the following: integrating personnel, operations and systems, while maintaining focus on selling and promoting existing and newly-acquired products; coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; distracting management and employees from operations; retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; maintaining the business relationships the acquired company has established, including with healthcare providers; and managing inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the Company.Furthermore, we have incurred, and may incur in the future, restructuring and integration costs and a number of non-recurring transaction costs associated with these acquisitions, combining the operations of the Company and the acquired company and achieving desired synergies. These fees and costs may be substantial. Non-recurring transaction costs include, but are not limited to, fees paid to legal, financial and accounting advisors, filing fees and printing costs. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses of the Company and the acquired company. There can be no assurance that the elimination of certain duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the acquired business, will offset the incremental transaction-related costs over time. Therefore, any net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, the long term or at all.Finally, these acquisitions and other arrangements, even if successfully integrated, may fail to further our business strategy as anticipated or to achieve anticipated benefits and success, expose us to increased competition or challenges with respect to our products or geographic markets, and expose us to additional liabilities associated with an acquired business, product, technology or other asset or arrangement. Any one of these challenges or risks could impair our ability to realize any benefit from our acquisition or arrangement after we have expended resources on them.Our proposed transaction with Salix Pharmaceuticals, Ltd. (“Salix”) represents a significant acquisition for the Company and may expose us to a number of the risks identified above. We cannot guarantee that we will satisfy the various conditions to the tender offer and subsequent merger, including with respect to the minimum number of Salix shares to be tendered in such offer. If we are unable to consummate the proposed acquisition of Salix, for any reason, we may face some or all of the risks described above. In addition, even if the proposed acquisition is consummated, we may still face difficulties in connection with the integration of the Salix business into our Company, which integration activities may be complex, time-consuming and disruptive to the operation of our business generally. We have estimated that the Salix transaction will result in significant synergies. We may not achieve all of the anticipated synergies we have identified or we may not achieve these synergies in the anticipated time frame, whether due to difficulties in integration or otherwise. In addition, the costs incurred in connection with such integration activities may be more substantial than we have anticipated and, as a result, may significantly reduce or even outweigh any benefits and efficiencies realized during our integration efforts. Finally, we may not be successful in implementing all of our plans with respect to the Salix business and, as a result, we may not be able to achieve all of the anticipated benefits of this proposed transaction. Following the completion of the acquisition of Salix, we will be subject to the risks associated with Salix’s business, including those discussed in Salix’s annual and quarterly reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations or could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.Tax-related RisksOur effective tax rates may increase.We have operations in various countries that have differing tax laws and rates. Our tax reporting is supported by current domestic tax laws in the countries in which we operate and the application of tax treaties between the various countries in which we operate. Our income tax reporting is subject to audit by domestic and foreign authorities. Our effective tax rate may change from year to year based on changes in the mix of activities and income earned among the different jurisdictions in which we operate; changes in tax laws in these jurisdictions; changes in the tax treaties between various countries in which we operate; changes in our eligibility for benefits under those tax treaties; and changes in the estimated values of deferred tax assets and liabilities. Such changes could result in a substantial increase in the effective tax rate on all or a portion of our income.11Our provision for income taxes is based on certain estimates and assumptions made by management. Our consolidated income tax rate is affected by the amount of net income earned in our various operating jurisdictions, the availability of benefits under tax treaties, and the rates of taxes payable in respect of that income. We enter into many transactions and arrangements in the ordinary course of business in respect of which the tax treatment is not entirely certain. We therefore make estimates and judgments based on our knowledge and understanding of applicable tax laws and tax treaties, and the application of those tax laws and tax treaties to our business, in determining our consolidated tax provision. For example, certain countries could seek to tax a greater share of income than will be provided for by us. The final outcome of any audits by taxation authorities may differ from the estimates and assumptions that we may use in determining our consolidated tax provisions and accruals. This could result in a material adverse effect on our consolidated income tax provision, financial condition and the net income for the period in which such determinations are made.Our deferred tax liabilities, deferred tax assets and any related valuation allowances are affected by events and transactions arising in the ordinary course of business, acquisitions of assets and businesses, and non-recurring items. The assessment of the appropriate amount of a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets is dependent upon several factors, including estimates of the realization of deferred income tax assets, which realization will be primarily based on forecasts of future taxable income. Significant judgment is applied to determine the appropriate amount of valuation allowance to record. Changes in the amount of any valuation allowance required could materially increase or decrease our provision for income taxes in a given period.Debt-related RisksWe have incurred significant indebtedness, which may restrict the manner in which we conduct business and limit our ability to implement elements of our growth strategy.We have incurred significant indebtedness, including in connection with our acquisitions. We may also incur additional long-term debt and working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs, subject to certain restrictions under our indebtedness, which would increase our total debt. This additional debt may be substantial. In particular, we will incur significant additional indebtedness in connection with our proposed acquisition of Salix and, to the extent certain amendments to our Credit Agreement being sought in connection with that transaction are not obtained, we may incur further costs. Our current indebtedness contains certain restrictive covenants which impose certain limitations on the way we conduct our business, including limitations on the amount of additional debt we are able to incur and restrictions on our ability to make certain investments and other restricted payments. Any additional debt may further restrict the manner in which we conduct business. Such restrictions could limit our ability to implement elements of our growth strategy. Some restrictions could include:•limitations on our ability to obtain additional debt financing on favorable terms or at all;•instances in which we are unable to meet the financial covenants contained in our debt agreements or to generate cash sufficient to make required debt payments, which circumstances would have the potential of resulting in the acceleration of the maturity of some or all of our outstanding indebtedness (which we may not have the ability to pay);•the allocation of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thus reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes, including operating costs and capital expenditures that could improve our competitive position and results of operations;•requiring us to issue debt or equity securities or to sell some of our core assets (subject to certain restrictions under our existing indebtedness), possibly on unfavorable terms, to meet payment obligations;•compromising our flexibility to plan for, or react to, competitive challenges in our business and the pharmaceutical and medical device industries;•the possibility that we are put at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors that do not have as much debt as us, and competitors that may be in a more favorable position to access additional capital resources; and•limitations on our ability to execute business development activities to support our strategies.Our current corporate credit rating is Ba3 for Moody’s Investors Service and BB- for Standard and Poor’s. A downgrade may increase our cost of borrowing and may negatively impact our ability to raise additional debt capital.To service our debt, we will be required to generate a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, and any failure to meet our debt service obligations would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.12We have a significant amount of indebtedness. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations will depend principally upon our future operating performance. As a result, prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, may affect our ability to make payments on our debt. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.Repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. Certain non-guarantor subsidiaries include non-U.S. subsidiaries that may be prohibited by law or other regulations from distributing funds to us and/or we may be subject to payment of repatriation taxes and withholdings. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries or receive cash via cash repatriation strategies for services rendered and intellectual property, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness.We are exposed to risks related to interest rates.Our senior secured credit facilities bear interest based on U.S. dollar London Interbank Offering Rates, or U.S. Prime Rate, or Federal Funds effective rate. Thus, a change in the short-term interest rate environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. As of December 31, 2014, we do not have any outstanding interest rate swap contracts.Risks related to the International Scope of our BusinessOur business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to risks arising from the international scope of our operations.We conduct a significant portion of our business outside the U.S. and Canada and, in light of our growth strategy, we anticipate continuing to expand our operations into new countries, including emerging markets. We sell our pharmaceutical and medical device products in many countries around the world. All of our foreign operations are subject to risks inherent in conducting business abroad, including, among other things:•difficulties in coordinating and managing foreign operations, including ensuring that foreign operations comply with foreign laws as well as U.S. laws applicable to U.S. companies with foreign operations, such as export laws and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and other applicable worldwide anti-bribery laws; •price and currency exchange controls;•restrictions on the repatriation of funds;•political and economic instability;•compliance with multiple regulatory regimes;•less established legal and regulatory regimes in certain jurisdictions, including as relates to enforcement of anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and the reliability of the judicial systems;•differing degrees of protection for intellectual property;•unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements, including quality standards and other certification requirements;•new export license requirements;•adverse changes in tariff and trade protection measures;•differing labor regulations;•potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws;•restrictive governmental actions;13•possible nationalization or expropriation;•credit market uncertainty;•differing local practices, customs and cultures, some of which may not align or comply with our company practices or U.S. laws and regulations;•difficulties with licensees, contract counterparties, or other commercial partners; and•differing local product preferences and product requirements.Any of these factors, or any other international factors, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Similarly, adverse economic conditions impacting our customers in these countries or uncertainty about global economic conditions could cause purchases of our products to decline, which would adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Moreover, our projected revenues and operating results are based on assumptions concerning certain levels of customer spending. Any failure to attain our projected revenues and operating results as a result of adverse economic or market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.Due to the large portion of our business conducted in currency other than U.S. dollars, we have significant foreign currency risk.We face foreign currency exposure on the translation into U.S. dollars of the financial results of our operations in Europe, Canada, Australia, Latin America, Asia and Africa, including, for example, as a result of the recent strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other foreign currencies, including the Russian ruble, euro and yen. Where possible, we manage foreign currency risk by managing same currency revenue in relation to same currency expenses, as we face foreign currency exposure in those countries where we have revenue denominated in the local foreign currency and expenses denominated in other currencies. As a result, both favorable and unfavorable foreign currency impacts to our foreign currency-denominated operating expenses are mitigated to a certain extent by the natural, opposite impact on our foreign currency-denominated revenue. In addition, the repurchase of principal under our U.S. dollar denominated debt may result in foreign exchange gains or losses for Canadian income tax purposes. One half of any foreign exchange gains or losses will be included in our Canadian taxable income. Any foreign exchange gain will result in a corresponding reduction in our available Canadian tax attributes.Employment-related RisksWe must continue to retain, motivate and recruit executives and other key employees, and failure to do so could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.We must continue to retain and motivate our executives, including our Chief Executive Officer, J. Michael Pearson, and other key employees, and to recruit other executives and employees, in order to strengthen our management team and workforce, especially in light of the growth of our Company. A failure by us to retain, motivate and recruit executives and other key employees could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.Risks related to Intellectual Property and Legal Proceedings The Company may fail to obtain, maintain, enforce or defend the intellectual property rights required to conduct its business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.We strive to acquire, maintain and defend patent, trademark and other intellectual property protections over our products and the processes used to manufacture these products. However, we may not be successful in obtaining such protections, or the patent, trademark and intellectual property rights we do obtain may not be sufficient in breadth and scope to fully protect our products or prevent competing products, or such patent and intellectual property rights may be susceptible to third party challenges. The failure to obtain, maintain, enforce or defend such intellectual property rights, for any reason, could allow third parties to manufacture and sell products that compete with our products or may impact our ability to develop, manufacture and market our own products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.For certain of our products and manufacturing processes, we rely on trade secrets and other proprietary information, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements with our employees, consultants, advisors and partners. 14We also attempt to enter into agreements whereby such employees, consultants, advisors and partners assign to us the rights in any intellectual property they develop. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of such information and disputes may still arise with respect to the ownership of intellectual property. The disclosure of such proprietary information or the loss of such intellectual property rights may impact our ability to develop, manufacture and market our own products or may assist competitors in the development, manufacture and sale of competing products, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, financial condition or results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.We may also incur substantial costs and resources in applying for and prosecuting these patent, trademark and other intellectual property rights and in defending or litigating these rights against third parties.We are involved in various legal proceedings that are uncertain, costly and time-consuming and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.We are involved in a number of legal proceedings and may be involved in litigation in the future. These proceedings are complex and extended and occupy the resources of our management and employees. These proceedings are also costly to prosecute and defend and may involve substantial awards or damages payable by us if not found in our favor. We may also be required to pay substantial amounts or grant certain rights on unfavorable terms in order to settle such proceedings. Defending against or settling such claims and any unfavorable legal decisions, settlements or orders could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. For more information regarding legal proceedings, see note 20 of notes to consolidated financial statements in Item 15 of this Form 10-K.In particular, the pharmaceutical and medical device industries historically have generated substantial litigation concerning the manufacture, use and sale of products and we expect this litigation activity to continue. As a result, we expect that patents related to our products will be routinely challenged, and our patents may not be upheld. In order to protect or enforce patent rights, we may initiate litigation against third parties. If we are not successful in defending an attack on our patents and maintaining exclusive rights to market one or more of our products still under patent protection, we could lose a significant portion of sales in a very short period. We may also become subject to infringement claims by third parties and may have to defend against charges that we violated patents or the proprietary rights of third parties. If we infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could lose our right to develop, manufacture or sell products, including our generic products, or could be required to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. In addition, in the U.S., it has become increasingly common for patent infringement actions to prompt claims that antitrust laws have been violated during the prosecution of the patent or during litigation involving the defense of that patent. Such claims by direct and indirect purchasers and other payers are typically filed as class actions. The relief sought may include treble damages and restitution claims. Similarly, antitrust claims may be brought by government entities or private parties following settlement of patent litigation, alleging that such settlements are anti-competitive and in violation of antitrust laws. In the U.S. and Europe, regulatory authorities have continued to challenge as anti-competitive so-called “reverse payment” settlements between branded and generic drug manufacturers. We may also be subject to other antitrust litigation involving competition claims unrelated to patent infringement and prosecution. A successful antitrust claim by a private party or government entity against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.If our products cause, or are alleged to cause, serious or widespread personal injury, we may have to withdraw those products from the market and/or incur significant costs, including payment of substantial sums in damages, and we may be subject to exposure relating to product liability claims.We face an inherent business risk of exposure to significant product liability and other claims in the event that the use of our products caused, or is alleged to have caused, adverse effects. Furthermore, our products may cause, or may appear to have caused, adverse side effects (including death) or potentially dangerous drug interactions that we may not learn about or understand fully until the drug has been administered to patients for some time. The withdrawal of a product following complaints and/or incurring significant costs, including the requirement to pay substantial damages in personal injury cases or product liability cases, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. In addition, effective March 31, 2014, we self-insure substantially all of our product liability risk for claims arising after that date.Development and Regulatory RisksThe successful development of our pipeline products is highly uncertain and requires significant expenditures and time. In addition, obtaining necessary government approvals is time consuming and not assured. The failure to commercialize certain 15of our pipeline products could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.We currently have a number of pipeline products in development. We and our development partners, as applicable, conduct extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy in humans of our pipeline products in order to obtain regulatory approval for the sale of our pipeline products. Preclinical studies and clinical trials are expensive, complex, can take many years and have uncertain outcomes. Only a small number of our research and development programs may actually result in the commercialization of a product. We will not be able to commercialize our pipeline products if preclinical studies do not produce successful results or if clinical trials do not demonstrate safety and efficacy in humans. Furthermore, success in preclinical studies or early-stage clinical trials does not ensure that later stage clinical trials will be successful nor does it ensure that regulatory approval for the product candidate will be obtained. In addition, the process for the completion of pre-clinical and clinical trials is lengthy and may be subject to a number of delays for various reasons, which will delay the commercialization of any successful product. If our development projects are not successful or are significantly delayed, we may not recover our substantial investments in the pipeline product and our failure to bring these pipeline products to market on a timely basis, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.In addition, FDA and Health Canada approval must be obtained in the U.S. and Canada, respectively, EMA approval (drugs) and CE Marking (devices) must be obtained in countries in the EU and similar approvals must be obtained from comparable agencies in other countries, prior to marketing or manufacturing new pharmaceutical and medical device products for use by humans. Obtaining such regulatory approvals for new products and devices and manufacturing processes can take a number of years and involves the expenditure of substantial resources. Even if such products appear promising in development stages, regulatory approval may not be achieved and no assurance can be given that we will obtain approval in those countries where we wish to commercialize such products. Nor can any assurance be given that if such approval is secured, the approved labeling will not have significant labeling limitations, including limitations on the indications for which we can market a product, or require onerous risk management programs. Furthermore, from time to time, changes to the applicable legislation or regulations may be introduced that change these review and approval processes for our products, which changes may make it more difficult and costly to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals. Our marketed drugs will be subject to ongoing regulatory review.Following initial regulatory approval of any products we or our partners may develop or acquire, we will be subject to continuing regulatory review by various government authorities in those countries where our products are marketed or intended to be marketed, including the review of adverse drug events and clinical results that are reported after product candidates become commercially available. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements in those countries where our products are sold, we could lose our marketing approvals or be subject to fines or other sanctions. In addition, incidents of adverse drug reactions, unintended side effects or misuse relating to our products could result in additional regulatory controls or restrictions, or even lead to the regulatory authority requiring us to withdraw the product from the market. Further, if faced with these incidents of adverse drug reactions, unintended side effects or misuse relating to our products, we may elect to voluntarily implement a recall or market withdrawal of our product. A recall or market withdrawal, whether voluntary or required by a regulatory authority, may involve significant costs to us, potential disruptions in the supply of our products to our customers and reputational harm to our products and business, all of which could harm our ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Also, as a condition to granting marketing approval of a product, the applicable regulatory agencies may require a company to conduct additional clinical trials, the results of which could result in the subsequent loss of marketing approval, changes in product labeling or new or increased concerns about side effects or efficacy of a product.Our marketing, promotional and pricing practices, as well as the manner in which sales forces interact with purchasers, prescribers and patients, are subject to extensive regulation and any material failure to comply could result in significant sanctions against us.The marketing, promotional, and pricing practices of pharmaceutical and medical device companies, as well as the manner in which companies’ in-house or third-party sales forces interact with purchasers, prescribers, and patients, are subject to extensive regulation, enforcement of which may result in the imposition of civil and/or criminal penalties, injunctions, and/or limitations on marketing practice for our products. Many companies, including us, have been the subject of claims related to these practices asserted by federal authorities. These claims have resulted in fines and other consequences. We are still operating under a Corporate Integrity Agreement (“CIA”) that requires us to maintain a comprehensive compliance program governing our sales, marketing and government pricing and contracting functions. Material failures to comply with the CIA could result in significant sanctions against us, including monetary penalties and exclusion from federal health care programs. Companies may not promote drugs for “off-label” uses - that is, uses that are not described in the product’s labeling and that differ from those approved by the FDA, 16Health Canada, EMA or other applicable regulatory agencies. A company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions. In addition, management's attention could be diverted from our business operations and our reputation could be damaged.For certain of our products, we depend on reimbursement from third party payors and a reduction in the extent of reimbursement could reduce our product sales and revenue. In addition, failure to be included in formularies developed by managed care organizations and other organizations may negatively impact the utilization of our products, which could harm our market share and could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.Sales of certain of our products are dependent, in part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations of the costs of our products and our continued participation in such programs. Changes in government regulations or private third-party payors’ reimbursement policies may reduce reimbursement for our products and adversely affect our future results. Managed care organizations and other third-party payors try to negotiate the pricing of medical services and products to control their costs. Managed care organizations and pharmacy benefit managers typically develop formularies to reduce their cost for medications. Formularies can be based on the prices and therapeutic benefits of the available products. Due to their lower costs, generic products are often favored. The breadth of the products covered by formularies varies considerably from one managed care organization to another, and many formularies include alternative and competitive products for treatment of particular medical conditions. Failure to be included in such formularies or to achieve favorable formulary status may negatively impact the utilization and market share of our products. If our products are not included within an adequate number of formularies or adequate reimbursement levels are not provided, or if those policies increasingly favor generic products, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.Manufacturing and Supply RisksIf we or our third-party manufacturers are unable to manufacture our products or the manufacturing process is interrupted due to failure to comply with regulations or for other reasons, the interruption of the manufacture of our products could adversely affect our business. Other manufacturing and supply difficulties or delays may also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.Our manufacturing facilities and those of our contract manufacturers must be inspected and found to be in full compliance with current good manufacturing practices (“cGMP”), quality system management requirements or similar standards before approval for marketing. While we attempt to build in certain contractual obligations on such third party manufacturers, we may not be able to ensure that such third parties comply with these obligations. Our failure or that of our contract manufacturers to comply with cGMP regulations, quality system management requirements or similar regulations outside of the U.S. could result in enforcement action by the FDA or its foreign counterparts, including, but not limited to, warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil or criminal penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production or importation, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval for approved or in-market products, refusal of the government to renew marketing applications or approve pending applications or supplements, suspension of ongoing clinical trials, imposition of new manufacturing requirements, closure of facilities and criminal prosecution. These enforcement actions could lead to a delay or suspension in production. In addition, our manufacturing and other processes use complicated and sophisticated equipment, which sometimes requires a significant amount of time to obtain and install. Manufacturing complexity, testing requirements and safety and security processes combine to increase the overall difficulty of manufacturing these products and resolving manufacturing problems that we may encounter. Although we endeavor to properly maintain our equipment (and require our contract manufacturers to properly maintain their equipment), including through on-site quality control and experienced manufacturing supervision, and have key spare parts on hand, our business could suffer if certain manufacturing or other equipment, or all or a portion of our or their facilities, were to become inoperable for a period of time. We could experience substantial production delays or inventory shortages in the event of any such occurrence until we or they repair such equipment or facility or we or they build or locate replacement equipment or a replacement facility, as applicable, and seek to obtain necessary regulatory approvals for such replacement. Any interruption in our manufacture of products could adversely affect the sales of our current products or introduction of new products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.The supply of our products to our customers (or, in some case, supply from our contract manufacturers to us) is subject to and dependent upon the use of transportation services. Disruption of transportation services (including as a result of weather conditions) could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. In addition, any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing distribution facilities, whether due to technical, labor or other difficulties, weather conditions, equipment malfunction, contamination, failure 17to follow specific protocols and procedures, destruction of or damage to any facility or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.For some of our finished products and raw materials, we obtain supply from one or a limited number of sources. If we are unable to obtain components or raw materials, or products supplied by third parties, our ability to manufacture and deliver our products to the market would be impeded, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.Some components and raw materials used in our manufactured products, and some finished products sold by us, are currently available only from one or a limited number of domestic or foreign suppliers. In the event an existing supplier fails to supply product on a timely basis and/or in the requested amount, supplies product that fails to meet regulatory requirements, becomes unavailable through business interruption or financial insolvency or loses its regulatory status as an approved source or we are unable to renew current supply agreements when such agreements expire and we do not have a second supplier, we may be unable to obtain the required components, raw materials or products on a timely basis or at commercially reasonable prices. We attempt to mitigate these risks by maintaining safety stock of these products, but such safety stock may not be sufficient. A prolonged interruption in the supply of a single-sourced raw material, including the active pharmaceutical ingredient, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.In addition, these third party manufacturers may have the ability to increase the supply price payable by us for the manufacture and supply of our products, in some cases without our consent. Our dependence upon others to manufacture our products may adversely affect our profit margins and our ability to obtain approval for and produce our products on a timely and competitive basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Commercialization and Distribution RisksOur approved products may not achieve or maintain expected levels of market acceptance.Even if we are able to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals for our pharmaceutical and medical device products, generic or branded, the success of these products is dependent upon achieving and maintaining market acceptance. Commercializing products is time consuming, expensive and unpredictable. There can be no assurance that we will be able to, either by ourselves or in collaboration with our partners or through our licensees or distributors, successfully commercialize new products or gain market acceptance for such products. New product candidates that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or may have only limited or no commercial success. Levels of market acceptance for our new products could be impacted by several factors, some of which are not within our control, including but not limited to the:•safety, efficacy, convenience and cost-effectiveness of our products compared to products of our competitors;•scope of approved uses and marketing approval;•availability of patent or regulatory exclusivity;•timing of market approvals and market entry;•availability of alternative products from our competitors;•acceptance of the price of our products; •effectiveness of our sales forces and promotional efforts;•the level of reimbursement of our products;•acceptance of our products on government and private formularies;•ability to market our products effectively at the retail level or in the appropriate setting of care; and•the reputation of our products.Further, the market perception and reputation of our products and their safety and efficacy are important to our business and the continued acceptance of our products. Any negative publicity about our products, such as the discovery of safety issues with our products, adverse events involving our products, or even public rumors about such events, may have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, the discovery of significant problems with a product similar to one of our products that implicate 18(or are perceived to implicate) an entire class of products or the withdrawal or recall of such similar products could have an adverse effect on sales of our products. Accordingly, new data about our products, or products similar to our products, could cause us reputational harm and could negatively impact demand for our products due to real or perceived side effects or uncertainty regarding safety or efficacy and, in some cases, could result in product withdrawal. If our products fail to gain, or lose, market acceptance, our revenues would be adversely impacted which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.Our business may be impacted by seasonality, which may cause our operating results and financial condition to fluctuate.Demand for certain of our products may be impacted by seasonality. Historically, revenues from our business tend to be weighted toward the second half of the year. Sales in the fourth quarter tend to be higher based on consumer and customer purchasing patterns associated with healthcare reimbursement programs. Further, the third quarter “back to school” period impacts demand for certain of our dermatology products. This seasonality may cause our operating results to fluctuate. However, as we continue our strategy of selective acquisitions to expand our product portfolio, there are no assurances that these historical trends will continue in the future. We have entered into distribution agreements with other companies to distribute certain of our products at supply prices based on net sales. Declines in the pricing and/or volume, over which we have no or limited control, of such products, and therefore the amounts paid to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.Certain of our products are the subject of third party distribution agreements, pursuant to which we manufacture and sell products to other companies, which distribute such products at a supply price, typically based on net sales. Our ability to control pricing and volume of these products is limited and, in some cases, these companies make all distribution and pricing decisions independently of us. If the pricing or volume of such products declines, our revenues would be adversely impacted which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.We may experience declines in sales volumes or prices of certain of our products as the result of the concentration of sales to wholesalers and the continuing trend towards consolidation of such wholesalers and other customer groups and this could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. For certain of our products, a significant portion of our sales are to a relatively small number of customers. If our relationship with one or more of such customers is disrupted or changes adversely or if one or more of such customers experience financial difficulty or other material adverse change in their businesses, it could materially and adversely affect our sales and financial results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.In addition, wholesalers and retail drug chains have undergone, and are continuing to undergo, significant consolidation. This consolidation may result in these groups gaining additional purchasing leverage and consequently increasing the product pricing pressures facing our business. The result of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.Risks related to Specific Legislation and RegulationsWe are subject to various laws and regulations, including “fraud and abuse” laws, anti-bribery laws, environmental laws and privacy and security regulations, and a failure to comply with such laws and regulations or prevail in any litigation related to noncompliance could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.Pharmaceutical and medical device companies have faced lawsuits and investigations pertaining to violations of health care “fraud and abuse” laws, such as the federal False Claims Act, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute (“AKS”) and other state and federal laws and regulations. The AKS prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under federally financed healthcare programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical or medical device manufacturers, on the one hand, and prescribers, purchasers, formulary managers and other health care related professionals, on the other hand. More generally, the federal False Claims Act, among other things, prohibits any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government. Pharmaceutical and medical device companies have been prosecuted or faced civil liability under these laws for a 19variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, including engaging in off-label promotion that caused claims to be submitted for non-covered off-label uses.We also face increasingly strict data privacy and security laws in the U.S. and in other countries, the violation of which could result in fines and other sanctions. The United States Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General recommends, and increasingly states require pharmaceutical companies to have comprehensive compliance programs. In addition, the Physician Payment Sunshine Act enacted in 2010 imposes reporting and disclosure requirements on device and drug manufacturers for any “transfer of value” made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers. Failure to submit this required information may result in significant civil monetary penalties. While we have developed corporate compliance programs based on what we believe to be current best practices, we cannot assure you that we or our employees or agents are or will be in compliance with all applicable federal, state or foreign regulations and laws. If we are in violation of any of these requirements or any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant criminal and civil fines and penalties, exclusion from federal healthcare programs or other sanctions.The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices or may require us to interact with doctors and hospitals, some of which may be state controlled, in a manner that is different than in the U.S. and Canada. We cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in criminal or civil penalties or remedial measures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.We are subject to laws and regulations concerning the environment, safety matters, regulation of chemicals and product safety in the countries where we manufacture and sell our products or otherwise operate our business. These requirements include regulation of the handling, manufacture, transportation, use and disposal of materials, including the discharge of pollutants into the environment. In the normal course of our business, hazardous substances may be released into the environment, which could cause environmental or property damage or personal injuries, and which could subject us to remediation obligations regarding contaminated soil and groundwater or potential liability for damage claims. Under certain laws, we may be required to remediate contamination at certain of our properties regardless of whether the contamination was caused by us or by previous occupants of the property or by others. In recent years, the operations of all companies have become subject to increasingly stringent legislation and regulation related to occupational safety and health, product registration and environmental protection. Such legislation and regulations are complex and constantly changing, and future changes in laws or regulations may require us to install additional controls for certain of our emission sources, to undertake changes in our manufacturing processes or to remediate soil or groundwater contamination at facilities where such cleanup is not currently required.We are also subject to various privacy and security regulations, including but not limited to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009 (as amended, “HIPAA”). HIPAA mandates, among other things, the adoption of uniform standards for the electronic exchange of information in common health care transactions (e.g., health care claims information and plan eligibility, referral certification and authorization, claims status, plan enrollment, coordination of benefits and related information), as well as standards relating to the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information, which require the adoption of administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect such information. In addition, many states have enacted comparable laws addressing the privacy and security of health information, some of which are more stringent than HIPAA. Failure to comply with these laws can result in the imposition of significant civil and criminal penalties. The costs of compliance with these laws and the potential liability associated with the failure to comply with these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.Legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system may affect our ability to sell our products profitably and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.In the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (the “Health Care Reform Act”) may affect the operational results of companies in the pharmaceutical and medical device industries, including the Company and other healthcare related industries, by imposing on them additional costs. Effective January 1, 2010, the Health Care Reform Act increased the minimum Medicaid drug rebates for pharmaceutical companies, expanded the 340B drug discount program, and made changes 20to affect the Medicare Part D coverage gap, or "donut hole". The law also revised the definition of "average manufacturer price" for reporting purposes, which may affect the amount of our Medicaid drug rebates to states. Beginning in 2011, the law imposed a significant annual fee on companies that manufacture or import branded prescription drug products. Finally, the law imposed an annual tax on manufacturers of certain medical devices. The Health Care Reform Act and further changes to health care laws or regulatory framework that reduce our revenues or increase our costs could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Other RisksOur operating results and financial condition may fluctuate.Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate from quarter to quarter for a number of reasons. The following events or occurrences, among others, could cause fluctuations in our financial performance from period to period:•development and launch of new competitive products;•the timing and receipt of FDA approvals or lack of approvals;•costs related to business development transactions;•changes in the amount we spend to promote our products;•delays between our expenditures to acquire new products, technologies or businesses and the generation of revenues from those acquired products, technologies or businesses;•changes in treatment practices of physicians that currently prescribe certain of our products;•increases in the cost of raw materials used to manufacture our products; •manufacturing and supply interruptions;•our responses to price competition;•expenditures as a result of legal actions (and settlements thereof), including the defense of our patents and other intellectual property;•market acceptance of our products;•the timing of wholesaler and distributor purchases; •general economic and industry conditions, including potential fluctuations in foreign currency and interest rates; •changes in seasonality of demand for certain of our products; and•foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.As a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results from operations, or any other similar period-to-period comparisons, should not be construed as reliable indicators of our future performance. In any quarterly period, our results may be below the expectations of market analysts and investors, which could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.We have significant goodwill and other intangible assets and potential impairment of goodwill and other intangibles may significantly impact our profitability.Goodwill and intangible assets represent a significant portion of our total assets. Finite-lived intangible assets are subject to an impairment analysis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. If an impairment exists, we would be required to take an impairment charge with respect to the impaired asset. Events giving rise to impairment are difficult to predict and are an inherent risk in the pharmaceutical and medical device industries. As a result of the significance of goodwill and intangible assets, our financial condition and results of operations in a future period could be negatively impacted should such an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets occur, which could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments21None.22