Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company's results from continuing operations and its financial position could be adversely affected in the future by known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which the Company is unable to predict or control. Some of these factors are described in more detail in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems immaterial may also impair its business operations. Should one or more of any of these risks or uncertainties materialize, the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. •The restructuring plan adopted by the Company's Board of Directors assumes that certain material changes in the operations of the Company will be sufficient to allow the Company to continue in operation despite the loss of its CBU contract with the USPS, which provided over 50% of the Company's sales revenues in each of 2004 and 2003. If the restructuring plan, as it may be modified by the Company's Board of Directors from time to time to reflect changing conditions and circumstances, does not adequately reduce the Company's expenses, the Company's ability to remain in business would be adversely affected. Restructuring costs were substantially greater in 2005 than originally estimated at the time the restructuring plan was adopted by the Board of Directors. •The Company's restructuring plan contemplates that it will develop and commence sales of USPS-B-1118 CBU to the private market. Sales to the private market accounted for 32.5%, 18.9% and 14.6% of the Company's sales in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. On May 8, 2007, the USPS notified the Company that, effective September 8, 2007, the USPS would no longer install its "arrow locks" on the Company's Model E CBU. The decertification of the Company's Model E CBU has occurred in conjunction with the USPS making available technical specifications of its successor USPS-B-1118 CBU. Accordingly, the Company is preparing its application to the USPS to become a licensed manufacturer of the USPS-B-1118, and will conduct a concurrent and ongoing internal cost analysis to determine whether it can manufacture that successor model profitably. The Company believes it will ultimately be approved by the USPS as a licensed manufacturer of the USPS-B-1118, although it could take between 6-8 months for the Company to be producing the USPS-B-1118 at current levels. If the Company is not able to timely obtain USPS approval, or determines not to pursue the manufacture of USPS-B-1118 CBU or otherwise experiences a delay that prevents it from being able to develop and commence sales of a replacement CBU in 2007, the Company's results of operations and its business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In particular, a further round of cost-cutting measures may become necessary if the Company determines not to pursue the manufacture of USPS-B-1118 CBU, the Company fails to receive approval from the USPS or the Company's development and commencement of sales of USPS-B-1118 CBU are significantly delayed beyond the currently contemplated estimates. •The Company has identified weaknesses in its internal controls and accounting systems and has proposed remedies; including changes in its accounting systems and the hiring of qualified accounting personnel to implement such remedies (see Item 9A, Controls and Procedures). If the Company is not able to effectively implement such remedies or hire such personnel, the Company may be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in its internal controls. 6 •In addition to the foregoing risks and uncertainties, the Company faces additional risks and uncertainties relating to its business, including but not limited to the following: •The Company may seek to mitigate some of the adverse impact of rising costs of sales through price increases. The Company's ability to implement price increases is dependent on market conditions, economic factors, raw material costs and availability, competitive factors, operating costs and other factors, some of which are beyond the Company's control. Further, the benefits of any implemented price increases may be delayed due to manufacturing lead times and the terms of existing contracts. •Any decline in general economic conditions in the United States or any heightened threat of terrorist and military actions could adversely affect the Company's ability and the ability of its suppliers and customers to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. These conditions particularly impact customers operating theme parks, resorts and other travel-related businesses. As a result, customers could reduce their purchases of the Company's products or delay the timing of their purchases from the Company, either of which may have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and business and financial condition. •The Company believes that its future success will depend in part upon its ability to develop, manufacture and successfully introduce new products, particularly the USPS-B-1118 CBU. The Company's ability to successfully develop, introduce and sell new products depends upon a variety of factors, including new product selection, timely and efficient completion of product design and development, timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes and effective sales and marketing initiatives related to the new products. Given the Company's current financial position, no assurances can be given that it will have enough capital on hand to develop, manufacture and successfully introduce new products, and a failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on the Company. •As a public company, the Company is subject to greater regulatory scrutiny than it would be if it were privately-held. In particular, the Company must adhere to various legal and auditing rules and procedures, the compliance with which is expensive and time-consuming. A failure on the part of the Company to comply with such rules and procedures would subject the Company to criminal and civil penalties. In addition, a significant portion of the Company's resources may need to be devoted to compliance matters, preventing the use of such resources for business expansion purposes. •The Company's future success will depend, to a substantial degree, upon the continued service of the key members of the Company's management team. Although the Company is not aware that any key personnel is planning to retire or leave in the near future, the loss of the services of any key member of the Company's management team, or their inability to perform services on the Company's behalf, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and business and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 7 