ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our inability to accurately forecast and estimate the amount and timing of future collections could have a material adverse effect on results of operations. Substantially all of the Consumer Loans assigned to us are made to individuals with impaired or limited credit histories, or higher debt-to-income ratios than are permitted by traditional lenders. Consumer Loans made to these individuals generally entail a higher risk of delinquency, default and repossession, and higher losses than loans made to consumers with better credit. Since cash flows available to repay the Loans are generated, in most cases, from the underlying Consumer Loans, the ability to accurately forecast Consumer Loan performance is critical to our success. At the time of Consumer Loan acceptance or purchase, we forecast future expected cash flows from the Consumer Loan. Based on these forecasts, which include estimates for wholesale vehicle prices in the event of vehicle repossession and sale, we make an advance or cash payment to the related dealer-partner at a level designed to achieve an acceptable return on capital. If Consumer Loan performance equals or exceeds original expectations, it is likely the target return on capital will be achieved. However, actual cash flows from any individual Consumer Loan are often different than cash flows estimated at Consumer Loan inception. There can be no assurance that our estimates will be accurate or that Consumer Loan performance will be as expected. In the event that we underestimate the default risk or under-price products, the financial position, liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected, possibly to a material degree. We may be unable to continue to access or renew funding sources and obtain capital on favorable terms needed to maintain and grow the business. We currently use four primary sources of debt financing: (1) a revolving secured line of credit with a commercial bank syndicate; (2) revolving secured warehouse facilities with institutional investors; (3) SEC Rule 144A asset-backed secured borrowings (“Term ABS 144A”) with qualified institutional investors; and (4) a residual credit facility with an institutional investor. In August 2009, our $325.0 million warehouse facility and our $50.0 million residual credit facility mature. There can be no assurance that new or additional financing can be obtained, or that it will be available on acceptable terms. If our various financing alternatives were to become limited or unavailable, we may be unable to accept Consumer Loans in the volume that we anticipate, and operations could be materially adversely affected. Requirements under credit facilities to meet financial and portfolio performance covenants. Our credit facilities contain various covenants requiring certain levels of financial performance and asset quality. Failure to meet any of these covenants could result in an event of default under these agreements. If we cannot comply with the requirements in our credit facilities, then the lenders may increase our borrowing costs, require us to repay immediately all of the outstanding debt, enforce their interests against collateral pledged under these agreements or restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings under these facilities. If our debt were accelerated, our assets might not be sufficient to fully repay the debt. These lenders may require us to use all of our available cash to repay our debt or foreclose upon their collateral. In such case, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would suffer. The conditions of the U.S. and international capital markets may adversely affect lenders the Company has relationships with, causing us to incur additional cost and reducing our sources of liquidity, which may adversely affect our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. Turbulence in the global capital markets and economic slowdown or recession may result in disruptions in the financial sector and potentially affect lenders the Company has relationships with. Although the Company continues to utilize low levels of financial leverage and has not suffered any significant liquidity issues as a result of recent events, the cost and availability of funds may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets as our lenders realize the impact of adverse conditions in the capital markets. In addition, the severity and duration of adverse conditions is unknown and may increase the Company’s exposure to credit risk and adversely affect the ability of lenders to perform under the terms of their lending arrangements with us. Failure by our lenders to perform 14 under the terms of our lending agreements could cause the Company to incur additional costs that may adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and profitability. Due to competition from traditional financing sources and non-traditional lenders, we may not be able to compete successfully. The automobile finance market for consumers who do not qualify for conventional automobile financing is large and highly competitive. The market is served by a variety of companies including “buy here, pay here” dealerships. The market is also currently served by banks, captive finance affiliates of automobile manufacturers, credit unions and independent finance companies both publicly and privately owned. Many of these companies are much larger and have greater financial resources than are available to us, and many have long standing relationships with automobile dealerships. Providers of automobile financing have traditionally competed based on the interest rate charged, the quality of credit accepted, the flexibility of loan terms offered and the quality of service provided to dealers and consumers. There is potential that significant direct competition could emerge and that we may be unable to compete successfully. Additionally, if we are unsuccessful in maintaining and expanding our relationships with dealer-partners, we may be unable to accept Consumer Loans in the volume and on the terms that we anticipate. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our outstanding debt and fund operations. We currently have substantial outstanding indebtedness and our credit facilities allow us to incur significant amounts of additional debt. The ability to make payments of principal or interest on indebtedness will depend in part on our future operating performance, which to a certain extent is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow in the future to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing. There can be no assurance that any such refinancing will be possible or that any additional financing can be obtained on acceptable terms. Interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our borrowing costs, profitability and liquidity. Our profitability may be directly affected by the level of and fluctuations in interest rates, which affects our borrowing costs. Our profitability and liquidity could be adversely affected during any period of higher interest rates, possibly to a material degree. We monitor the interest rate environment and employ hedging strategies designed to mitigate the impact of increases in interest rates. We can provide no assurance, however, that hedging strategies will mitigate the impact of increases in interest rates. The regulation to which we are subject could result in a material adverse affect on our business. Our business is subject to various laws and regulations which require licensing and qualification; limit interest rates, fees and other charges associated with the Consumer Loans assigned to us; require specified disclosures by dealer-partners to consumers; govern the sale and terms of ancillary products; and define the rights to repossess and sell collateral. Failure to comply with, or an adverse change in, these laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on us by, among other things, limiting the jurisdictions in which we may operate, restricting the ability to realize the value of the collateral securing the Consumer Loans, making it more costly or burdensome to do business, or resulting in potential liability. In addition, governmental regulations which would deplete the supply of used vehicles, such as environmental protection regulations governing emissions or fuel consumption, could have a material adverse effect on us. The sale of insurance products in connection with Consumer Loans assigned to us by dealer-partners is also subject to state laws and regulations. As the holder of the Consumer Loans that contain these products, some of these state laws and regulations may apply to our servicing and collection of the Consumer Loans. Although we do not believe that such laws and regulations significantly affect our business because we do not deal directly with consumers in the sale of insurance products, there can be no assurance that insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which such products are offered by dealer-partners will not seek to regulate or restrict the operation 15 of the business in such jurisdictions. Any such action could materially adversely affect the income received from such products. Adverse changes in economic conditions, the automobile or finance industries, or the non-prime consumer market, could adversely affect our financial position, liquidity and results of operations, the ability of key vendors that we depend on to supply us with certain services, and our ability to enter into future financing transactions. We are subject to general economic conditions which are beyond our control. During periods of economic slowdown or recession, delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses may increase. These periods may also be accompanied by decreased consumer demand for automobiles and declining values of automobiles securing outstanding Consumer Loans, which weakens collateral coverage and increases the amount of a loss in the event of default. Significant increases in the inventory of used automobiles during periods of economic recession may also depress the prices at which repossessed automobiles may be sold or delay the timing of these sales. Because our business is focused on consumers who do not qualify for conventional automobile financing, the actual rates of delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses on these Consumer Loans could be higher than that of those experienced in the general automobile finance industry, and could be more dramatically affected by a general economic downturn. In addition, we rely on vendors to provide us with services we need to operate our business. Any disruption in our operations due to the untimely or discontinued supply of these services could substantially adversely affect our operations. Finally, during an economic slowdown or recession, our servicing costs may increase without a corresponding increase in service fee income. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, defaults, repossessions or losses or increased servicing costs could also materially adversely affect our financial position, liquidity and results of operations and our ability to enter into future financing transactions. Litigation we are involved in from time to time may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As a result of the consumer-oriented nature of the industry in which we operate and uncertainties with respect to the application of various laws and regulations in some circumstances, we are subject to various consumer claims and litigation seeking damages and statutory penalties, based upon, among other things, usury, disclosure inaccuracies, wrongful repossession, violations of bankruptcy stay provisions, certificate of title disputes, fraud and breach of contract. Some litigation against us could take the form of class action complaints by consumers. As the assignee of Consumer Loans originated by dealer-partners, we may also be named as a co-defendant in lawsuits filed by consumers principally against dealer-partners. The Company may also have disputes and litigation with dealer-partners. The claims may allege, among other theories of liability, that the Company breached its dealer servicing agreement. The damages and penalties that may be claimed by consumers or dealer-partners in these types of matters can be substantial. The relief requested by the plaintiffs varies but includes requests for compensatory, statutory and punitive damages. A significant judgment against us in connection with any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on our senior management and the loss of any of these individuals or an inability to hire additional team members could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Our senior management average over 9 years of experience with the Company. Our success is dependent upon the management and the leadership skills of this team. In addition, competition from other companies to hire our team members possessing the necessary skills and experience required could contribute to an increase in team member turnover. The loss of any of these individuals or an inability to attract and retain additional qualified team members could adversely affect us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our existing senior management or attract additional qualified team members. Our inability to properly safeguard confidential consumer information. If third parties or our employees are able to breach our network security or otherwise misappropriate our customers’ personal information or loan information, or if we give third parties or our employees improper access to our customers’ personal information or loan information, we could be subject to liability. This liability could 16 include identity theft or other similar fraud-related claims. This liability could also include claims for other misuses or losses of personal information, including for unauthorized marketing purposes. Other liabilities could include claims alleging misrepresentation of our privacy and data security practices. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure online transmission of confidential consumer information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments may result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms that we use to protect sensitive customer transaction data. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may be required to expend capital and other resources to protect against such security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Our security measures are designed to protect against security breaches, but our failure to prevent such security breaches could subject us to liability, decrease our profitability, and damage our reputation. Our operations could suffer from telecommunications or technology downtime or increased costs. The temporary or permanent loss of our computer and telecommunications equipment, software systems and Internet access, through system conversions or operating malfunction, could disrupt our operations. In the normal course of our business, we must record and process significant amounts of data quickly and accurately to access, maintain and expand the databases we use for our origination and collection activities. Any failure of our information systems or software and our backup systems could interrupt our business operations and harm our business. Our ability to integrate computer and telecommunications technologies into our business is essential to our competitive position and our success. Computer and telecommunications technologies are evolving rapidly and are characterized by short product life cycles. We may not be successful in anticipating, managing or adopting technological changes on a timely basis. While we believe that our existing information systems are sufficient to meet our current demands and continued expansion, our future growth may require additional investment in these systems. We cannot ensure that adequate capital resources will be available to us at the appropriate time. Natural disasters, acts of war, terrorist attacks and threats or the escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or otherwise may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Natural disasters, acts of war, terrorist attacks and the escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or otherwise may have negative and significant effects, such as imposition of increased security measures, changes in applicable laws, market disruptions and job losses. Such events may have an adverse effect on the economy in general. Moreover, the potential for future terrorist attacks and the national and international responses to such threats could affect the business in ways that cannot be predicted. The effect of any of these events or threats could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 