Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company’s results from continuing operations and its financial position could be adversely affected in the future by known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which the Company is unable to predict or control. Some of these factors are described in more detail in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the Company’s other filings with the SEC. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems immaterial may also impair its business operations. Should one or more of any of these risks or uncertainties materialize, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 4 Table of Contents The Company has implemented a series of operational changes intended to reduce operating expenses. If the changes do not have the intended effects, the Company’s ability to remain in business may be adversely affected. As a result of the decertification of the Model E CBU and the USPS rejection of the Company’s application to manufacture the USPS-B-1118 CBU, the Company has implemented a series of operational changes for the purpose of streamlining operations and lowering costs. These changes include a reduction of administrative costs, the adoption of lean manufacturing processes, reducing the number of employees, re-design of the Horizontal 4c mailbox to reduce manufacturing costs, negotiating lower costs with vendors, and in-sourcing the manufacturing of non-postal lockers. These changes will be augmented by a shift in the Company’s business focus to selling value-added niche products (which have higher margins than the USPS licensed CBUs) and improving the Company’s sales and distribution efforts. The operational changes implemented by management assume that certain material changes in the operations of the Company will be sufficient to allow the Company to continue in operation despite the decertification of the Model E CBU by the USPS, the sales of which provided over 25% of the Company’s sales revenues in each of 2007 and 2006. Sales of the Model E CBU provided less than 1% of the Company’s sales revenues in 2008. If the operational changes do not adequately reduce the Company’s expenses, the Company’s ability to remain in business would be adversely affected. The Company’s results of operations are dependent on the price of raw materials, particularly steel and aluminum. High raw material costs or cost increases could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. Volatility in raw material and other prices has become an increasing factor in the general economy, and the Company continues to seek ways to mitigate its impact. For example, the Company experienced significant volatility in steel and aluminum prices in 2008 and 2007. To the extent permitted by competition, the Company seeks to mitigate the adverse impact of rising costs of raw materials through product price increases. The Company’s ability to implement price increases is dependent on market conditions, economic factors, raw material costs and availability, competitive factors, operating costs and other factors, some of which are beyond the Company’s control. Further, the benefits of any implemented price increases may be delayed due to manufacturing lead times and the terms of existing contracts. If the Company is not able to successfully mitigate the effects of rising raw materials costs, the Company’s results of operations, business and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. The Company must relocate to a new facility by December 31, 2010. Failure to locate an adequate facility and relocate in a timely manner could have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. As a result of the sale of the Company’s headquarters and primary manufacturing facility to the City of Grapevine, the Company must relocate to a new headquarters and primary manufacturing facility by December 31, 2010. The Company manufacturers all of its postal and non-postal lockers at this facility and any delays or disruptions during the relocation would negatively impact the Company’s ability to manufacture product for sale. If this were to happen it would have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s operating results and liquidity. The global economic recession has resulted in weaker demand for the Company’s products and may create challenges for us that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The global economic recession has affected our domestic and international markets, and we are experiencing weaker demand for our products. Management believes the worsening global economic conditions in 2009 and beyond will reduce customer demand across all customer segments, particularly in construction, travel and recreational industries. As a result, customers will reduce their purchases of the Company’s products or delay the timing of their purchases from the Company, either of which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, business and financial condition. Continuing disruptions in the financial markets or other factors could affect the Company’s liquidity U.S. credit markets have recently experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions. These factors have materially impacted debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and in certain cases have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. Continued uncertainty in the credit markets may negatively impact the Company’s ability to access additional debt financing or to refinance existing indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. The credit market disruptions could impair the Company’s ability to fund operations, limit the Company’s ability to expand the business or increase interest expense, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial results. 5 Table of Contents Terrorist attacks or international hostilities may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 caused a significant slowdown in our industry. Additional terrorist attacks or fear of such attacks would negatively affect the Company and our industry. The Company’s financial resources might not be sufficient to absorb the adverse effects of any further terrorist attacks or other international hostilities. The global financial crisis may have an impact on the Company’s business and financial condition in ways that management cannot predict. The continued credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system has had and may continue to have an impact on the Company’s business and financial condition. For example, the Company’s ability to access the capital and credit markets may be severely restricted which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. The financial crisis and economic downturn have also resulted in broadly lower investment asset returns and values, including in the defined benefit pension plans that we sponsor for eligible employees and retirees. Our funding obligations for the US Plan, which have been frozen for future benefit accruals, are governed by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (“ERISA”). Our funding obligations for the Canadian Plan, which have been frozen for future benefit accruals, are governed by the Pension Benefits Act. Estimates of pension plan funding requirements can vary materially from actual funding requirements because the estimates are based on various assumptions concerning factors outside our control, including, among other things, the market performance of assets, statutory requirements, and demographic data for participants. Due primarily to the recent decline in the investment markets, we currently expect our contributions to these plans to significantly increase for 2010 and thereafter, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. If the Company experiences losses of senior management personnel and other key employees, operating results could be adversely affected. We are dependent on the experience and industry knowledge of our officers and other key employees to execute our business plans. If we experience a substantial turnover in our leadership and other key employees, our performance could be materially adversely impacted. Furthermore, we may be unable to attract and retain additional qualified executives as needed in the future. The postal locker industry is subject to extensive regulation by the USPS, and new regulation might negatively impact the Company’s ability to continue to sell postal lockers or increase our operating costs A material portion of the Company’s postal locker sales come from products, including the Horizontal 4c and Horizontal 4b+ mailboxes, which require continued USPS approval. If the USPS were to withdraw approval for these products or change the requirements for approval, it may materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, business and financial condition. A change in the USPS’s requirements might also materially increase the Company’s operating costs. On May 8, 2007, the USPS notified the Company that, effective September 8, 2007, the USPS would decertify the Company’s Model E CBU. Sales to the private market of the Model E CBU accounted for 0.3%, 28.4%, and 35.6% of the Company’s sales in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. On November 30, 2007, the Company announced that the USPS had rejected the Company’s application to manufacture the USPS-B-1118 CBU. In rejecting the Company’s application, the USPS cited weaknesses in the Company’s financial and inventory controls that existed in 2005 and 2006. Although the Company remedied most of these weaknesses during the 2007 fiscal year, the USPS noted remedies had not been in place long enough to be subjected to review as part of the Company’s annual audit. Please see Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under Item 9A(T). However, the USPS did advise the Company that it could resubmit its application within a reasonable period of time. Accordingly, the Company intends to evaluate the feasibility of reapplying to manufacture the USPS-B-1118 CBU at a later time. While the Company intends to shift its business plan to increase its focus on its higher-margin niche products to offset the loss of revenues from the USPS, failure to obtain USPS approval to manufacture the USPS-B-1118 CBU, may materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, business and financial condition. The Company’s future success will depend, in large part, upon its ability to successfully introduce new products. The Company believes that its future success will depend, in large part, upon its ability to develop, manufacture and successfully introduce new products. The Company’s ability to successfully develop, introduce and sell new products depends upon a variety of factors, including new product selection, timely and efficient completion of product design and development, timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes and effective sales and marketing initiatives related to the new products. Given the Company’s current financial position, the Company may not have enough capital on hand to develop, manufacture and successfully introduce new products, and a failure to do so or to obtain the necessary capital in order to do so would have a material adverse effect on the Company. 6 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 