Risk Factors" and Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Forward-Looking Information and Risks" for more information on such risks and uncertainties. COMPANY HISTORY AND ACQUISITIONS The Company, headquartered in Chicago, is the successor to a business formed in 1898 by Mr. John Nuveen that served as an underwriter and trader of municipal bonds. This core business was augmented in 1961 when the Company developed and introduced its first municipal defined portfolio, which is a fixed portfolio of municipal securities selected and purchased by the Company and deposited in a trust. The Company introduced its first municipal mutual fund in 1976, its first municipal money market fund in 1981, and its first municipal closed-end fund in 1987. The Company began providing individual managed account services to investors in early 1995, and since 1996 the Company has offered an increasingly wider range of equity-based managed funds and accounts to its target markets. On January 2, 1997, the Company completed the acquisition of Flagship Resources Inc. a manager of both municipal mutual funds and municipal managed accounts for individual investors. On August 31, 1997, the Company completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding stock of Rittenhouse Financial Services, Inc. ("Rittenhouse"), which specializes in managing individual equity and balanced portfolios primarily for high-net-worth individuals served by financial advisors. Rittenhouse provided the Company with a high-quality scalable distribution and service platform focused on the growing retail managed account markets. 1 On September 17, 1999, the Company completed the sale of its investment banking business to US Bancorp Piper Jaffray. In conjunction with the sale, the Company ceased underwriting and distributing municipal bonds and serving as remarketing agent for variable rate bonds. On July 16, 2001, the Company completed the acquisition of Symphony Asset Management, LLC ("Symphony"). Symphony is an institutional investment manager based in San Francisco. As a result of the acquisition, the Company's product offerings expanded to include alternative investments designed to reduce risk through market-neutral and other strategies in several equity and fixed-income asset classes. Symphony also manages several long-only portfolios for the Company. In the first quarter of 2002, the Company exited the defined portfolio product line. As a result, the Company no longer creates and distributes new defined portfolios. Defined portfolios previously sponsored by the Company that are still outstanding continue to be administered by the Company. On August 1, 2002, the Company completed the acquisition of NWQ Investment Management ("NWQ"), an asset management firm that specializes in value-oriented equity investments with significant relationships among institutions and financial advisors serving high-net-worth investors. NWQ has a product line that includes large-cap, mid-cap and small-cap value products as well as international value portfolios. On October 3, 2005, the Company completed the acquisition of Santa Barbara Asset Management ("Santa Barbara"). Santa Barbara specializes in mid- to large-cap and small- to mid-cap growth equities, primarily with institutions and high-net-worth investors. In the first quarter of 2006, a separate investment management platform was established dedicated to international and global investing. This new unit was named Tradewinds NWQ Global Investors, LLC, and is another distinct, independent and separately branded investment team and platform that comprises Nuveen Investments. This team previously managed international and global value portfolios as part of NWQ. Of the assets managed by NWQ at December 31, 2005, approximately $15 billion are now part of Tradewinds. The Company was incorporated in the State of Delaware on March 23, 1992, as a wholly owned subsidiary of The St. Paul Companies, Inc. (now The St. Paul Travelers Companies, Inc. ("St. Paul Travelers" or "STA")). John Nuveen & Co. Incorporated, the predecessor of the Company (now named Nuveen Investments, LLC), had been a wholly owned subsidiary of St. Paul Travelers since 1974. During 1992, St. Paul Travelers sold a portion of its ownership interest in the Company through a public offering. On April 7, 2005, St. Paul Travelers sold approximately 40 million shares of our common stock in a secondary underwritten public offering at $34.00 per share. Concurrent with the secondary offering, St. Paul Travelers sold to Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley on a forward basis approximately 12 million shares of Nuveen Investments, Inc. common stock. In addition, the Company repurchased $600 million (or approximately 18 million shares) of Nuveen Investments' common stock directly from St. Paul Travelers at a price of $32.98 per share. Upon the closing of the secondary offering on April 7, 2005, the Company was no longer a majority-owned subsidiary of St. Paul Travelers, and as of the end of September 2005, all of St. Paul Travelers' remaining ownership interest in us had been sold. LINES OF BUSINESS We derive substantially all of our revenues from providing investment advisory, investment management, distribution and administration services to our family of funds and high-net-worth and institutional investors. This is our main business activity and only operating segment. The following series of tables, including Gross Sales of Investment Products, Net Flows, and Net Assets Under Management, provide data that should be helpful in understanding the Company's business and should be referred to while reading the separate discussions that follow the tables. 2 GROSS SALES OF INVESTMENT PRODUCTS The following table summarizes gross sales for the Company's products for the past three years: GROSS SALES OF INVESTMENT PRODUCTS (IN THOUSANDS) YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, --------------------------------------------- 2005 2004 2003 ----------- ----------- ----------- Managed Accounts: Retail $15,602,815 $15,497,165 $ 7,943,426 Institutional 6,297,292 5,939,308 2,335,561 ----------- ----------- ----------- Total 21,900,107 21,436,473 10,278,987 Mutual Funds: Municipal 2,497,685 1,381,353 1,428,389 Equity and Income 693,359 243,445 107,347 ----------- ----------- ----------- Total 3,191,044 1,624,798 1,535,736 Closed-End Exchange-Traded Funds: Municipal 14 161,004 594,626 Taxable Fixed Income 274,270 1,706,036 5,688,775 Equity and Income 2,027,659 1,021,154 - ----------- ----------- ----------- Total 2,301,943 2,888,194 6,283,401 ----------- ----------- ----------- Total Sales $27,393,094 $25,949,465 $18,098,124 =========== =========== =========== NET FLOWS OF INVESTMENT PRODUCTS The following table summarizes net flows (equal to the sum of sales, reinvestments and exchanges less redemptions) for the Company's products for the past three years: NET FLOWS (IN THOUSANDS) YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, --------------------------------------------- 2005 2004 2003 ----------- ----------- ----------- Managed Accounts: Retail $ 6,561,967 $ 8,367,137 $ 2,921,607 Institutional 2,829,633 3,455,259 (20,835) ----------- ----------- ----------- Total 9,391,600 11,822,396 2,900,772 Mutual Funds: Municipal 1,390,945 280,449 372,709 Equity and Income 443,566 7,437 (140,007) ----------- ----------- ----------- Total 1,834,511 287,886 232,702 Closed-End Exchange-Traded Funds 2,358,952 2,911,406 6,304,661 ----------- ----------- ----------- Total $13,585,063 $15,021,688 $ 9,438,135 =========== =========== =========== 3 NET ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT The following table shows net assets managed by the Company at December 31 for each of the past three years: NET ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT (IN MILLIONS) DECEMBER 31, ------------------------------------ 2005 2004 2003 -------- -------- -------- Managed Accounts: Retail $ 47,675 $ 36,975 $ 25,676 Institutional 21,950 15,582 10,301 -------- -------- -------- Total 69,625 52,557 35,977 Mutual Funds: Municipal 12,675 11,381 11,101 Equity and Income 1,820 1,299 1,184 -------- -------- -------- Total 14,495 12,680 12,285 Closed-End Exchange-Traded Funds: Municipal 35,682 35,934 35,743 Taxable Fixed Income 12,352 12,414 11,351 Equity and Income 3,963 1,868 - -------- -------- -------- Total 51,997 50,216 47,094 -------- -------- -------- Total $136,117 $115,453 $ 95,356 ======== ======== ======== ASSET MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT CAPABILITIES OVERVIEW The Company, through its advisory subsidiaries, offers five primary investment styles: value equities through NWQ; fixed-income through Nuveen; growth equities through Santa Barbara; "blue-chip" growth equities through Rittenhouse; and core equity, fixed-income and hedged alternative investments through Symphony. Within these primary investment styles, the Company sponsors several product structures, including separately managed accounts, closed-end funds and mutual funds. In its capacity as an adviser, the Company is responsible for the execution of the investment policies of the various funds or managed accounts it advises. Investment decisions for each fund or account are made by the portfolio management teams responsible for the fund or managed account. Our NWQ portfolio team specializes in value-oriented equity investments with a philosophy of investing in undervalued companies with identified catalysts to improve profitability and/or unlock value. Nuveen's fixed-income style concentrates primarily on the research, selection and management of municipal bond portfolios as well as a number of taxable strategies with the goal of generating attractive current income. Our Santa Barbara portfolio team primarily invests in mid- to large-cap and small- to mid-cap companies that exhibit stable and consistent earnings growth. Our Rittenhouse portfolio team follows a "blue-chip" growth stock strategy that centers generally on identifying large capitalization companies that are financially strong, are global leaders in their industries and generally have demonstrated consistent and predictable above-average long-term growth in earnings and, if applicable, in dividends. Symphony's hedged alternative investment disciplines are designed to reduce the systematic risk of investing in several equity and fixed-income asset classes with the goal of producing positive returns regardless of broad market direction. Symphony also manages a number of "core" equity long-only portfolios that leverage Symphony's unique multi-style process that combines quantitative analysis with qualitative insight. The Company also offers investment products in a variety of taxable income styles including preferred securities, convertible securities, real estate investment trusts ("REITs"), senior loans 4 and emerging market debt. Several of these styles provide access to other specialized, unaffiliated investment managers through sub-advisory arrangements. The Company has traditionally had a very low employment turnover rate among its portfolio managers. The majority of the Company's portfolio managers, as well as those employed by sub-advisers, have devoted most of their professional careers to the analysis, selection and surveillance of the types of securities held in the funds or accounts they manage. SPONSORED PRODUCTS MANAGED ACCOUNTS The Company provides tailored investment management services for individuals and institutions through traditional managed accounts. Managed accounts are individual portfolios of stocks and bonds that offer investors the opportunity for a greater degree of tax planning and customization than packaged products. Our managed account offerings include large-cap growth and value accounts, small-cap and mid-cap growth and value accounts, small-cap core accounts, international equity accounts, blends of stocks and bonds, and market-neutral as well as tax-free and taxable fixed-income accounts. Accounts managed by Symphony include privately offered hedge funds. Symphony offers single- and multi-strategy market-neutral hedged portfolios across different asset classes and capitalization ranges: Large Cap U.S. Equities, Small Cap U.S. Equities, Convertible-Bond Arbitrage, Credit Arbitrage and Senior Loans. Portfolios are managed through privately offered on-shore limited partnerships, off-shore funds, and separately managed accounts. Some separate accounts, partnerships and funds employ investment leverage. In addition, some clients may choose to overlay Symphony's strategies with futures contracts. CLOSED-END FUNDS As of December 31, 2005, the Company sponsored 114 closed-end funds that are actively managed. Of these funds, 98 invest exclusively in municipal securities. Of the remaining 16 funds, three invest primarily in senior loans, one invests in REITs, two invest in a blend of income and equity strategies, two invest in preferred and convertible securities, three invest solely in preferred securities, four invest in equity index and option securities and one invests primarily in adjustable rate securities. Closed-end funds do not continually offer to sell and redeem their shares. Rather, daily liquidity is provided by the ability to trade the shares of these funds on the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ, at prices that may be above or below the shares' net asset value. The municipal closed-end funds include insured and uninsured national and single-state funds. Most of these funds have a "leveraged" capital structure through the issuance of both common and preferred shares. The dividends paid to preferred shareholders are based on short-term tax-free interest rates, while the proceeds from the issuance of preferred shares are invested by the funds in longer-term municipal securities. This leveraged capital structure is designed to generate additional dividend potential for the common shareholders based on the historically observed differences between short-term and long-term interest rates. The closed-end funds that invest in senior loans, REITs, taxable income and equity strategies, preferred and convertible securities and preferred securities also have leveraged capital structures. They use preferred shares or short-term borrowings in a manner consistent with the municipal closed-end funds, in an attempt to generate additional incremental income for common shareholders. If the preferred share dividend rate or short-term borrowing rate were to exceed the net rate of return earned by a fund's investment portfolio for an extended period, the fund's Board of Directors may consider redeeming the outstanding preferred shares or reducing the short-term borrowings. In addition, the fund's Board may consider repurchasing shares or converting the fund from its closed-end exchange-traded status into an open-end fund if the fund persistently trades on the stock exchange at deep discounts to its net asset value per share. Either of these situations may negatively affect total assets under management. MUTUAL FUNDS As of December 31, 2005, the Company offered 39 equity, balanced and municipal open-end mutual funds. These funds are actively managed and continuously offered to sell their shares at prices based on the daily net asset values of their portfolios. Daily redemption at net asset value is offered by all 39 funds. Of the 39 mutual funds, the Company offers 30 national and state-specific municipal funds that invest substantially all of 5 their assets in diversified portfolios of limited-term, intermediate-term or long-term municipal bonds. The Company offers 9 mutual funds that invest exclusively in U.S. equities, international equities, or in portfolios combining equity with taxable fixed-income or municipal securities. OVERVIEW The relative attractiveness of the Company's managed accounts, mutual funds and closed-end funds to investors depends upon many factors, including current and expected market conditions, the performance histories of the funds, their current yields, the availability of viable alternatives and the level of continued participation by the unaffiliated, third party firms that distribute the Company's funds to their customers. The assets under management of managed accounts, mutual funds and closed-end funds are affected by changes in the market values of the underlying securities. Changing market conditions may cause positive or negative shifts in valuation, and subsequently in the advisory fees earned from these assets. At December 31, 2005, Nuveen, NWQ, Santa Barbara, Rittenhouse and Symphony managed 55%, 34%, 3%, 4% and 4% of the Company's total assets, respectively. ADVISORY FEES The Company provides investment management services to funds, accounts and portfolios pursuant to investment management agreements. With respect to managed accounts, Rittenhouse, Santa Barbara, Nuveen, Symphony and NWQ generally receive fees, on a quarterly basis, based on the value of the assets managed on a particular date, such as the first or last calendar day of a quarter, or on the average asset value for the period. Symphony also receives performance fees earned on certain institutional accounts and hedge funds based on the performance of the accounts. With respect to mutual funds and closed-end funds, the Company receives fees based either on each fund's average daily net assets or on a combination of the average daily net assets and gross interest income. Pursuant to sub-advisory agreements: Institutional Capital Corporation ("ICAP") performs portfolio management services on behalf of three of the equity-based mutual funds; Security Capital Research & Management Incorporated ("SC") performs portfolio management services for our REIT closed-end fund and diversified dividend and income closed-end fund; Wellington Management Company, LLP ("WM") performs portfolio management services for the diversified dividend and income closed-end fund; Spectrum Asset Management, Inc. ("SM") performs portfolio management services for the three preferred securities closed-end funds, two preferred and convertible income closed-end funds and the tax-advantaged floating rate closed-end fund; Froley, Revy Investment Co., Inc. ("FR") performs portfolio management services for the two preferred and convertible income closed-end funds; and Gateway Advisors ("GA") performs portfolio management services for four equity index and option funds. The Company has a 23% non-voting minority equity ownership interest in ICAP, but has no equity ownership interest in SC, WM, SM, FR or GA. 6 Advisory fees, net of sub-advisory fees and expense reimbursements, earned on managed assets for each of the past three years are shown in the following table: NET INVESTMENT ADVISORY FEES (IN THOUSANDS) YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, ----------------------------------------- 2005 2004 2003 --------- --------- --------- Managed Accounts $ 239,612 $ 173,094 $ 122,961 Closed-End Exchange-Traded Funds 249,523 239,295 220,701 Mutual Fund Advisory Fees 70,615 63,578 61,612 Less: Reimbursed Expenses (87) (153) (427) --------- --------- --------- Net Advisory Fees 70,528 63,425 61,185 Total $ 559,663 $ 475,814 $ 404,847 ========= ========= ========= The Company's advisory fee schedules currently provide for maximum annual fees ranging from 0.45% to 0.60% in the case of the municipal mutual funds, and 0.75% to 1.05% in the case of the equity and income mutual funds. Maximum fees in the case of the closed-end funds currently range from 0.35% to 0.90% of total net assets, except with respect to five select portfolios. The investment management agreements for these select portfolios provide for annual advisory fees ranging from 0.25% to 0.30%. Additionally, for 57 funds offered since 1999, the investment management agreement specifies that for at least the first five years the Company will waive a portion of management fees or reimburse other expenses. The investment management agreement provides for waived management fees or reimbursements of other expenses ranging from 0.20% to 0.45% for the first five years. In each case, the management fee schedules provide for reductions in the fee rate at increased asset levels. In August 2004, the Company implemented a complex-wide fund pricing structure for all of its managed funds. The complex-wide pricing structure separates traditional portfolio management fees into two components - a fund specific component and an aggregate complex-wide component. The aggregate complex-wide component introduces breakpoints related to the entire complex of managed funds, rather than utilizing breakpoints only within individual funds. For the separately managed accounts, fees are negotiated and are based primarily on asset size, portfolio complexity and individual needs. These fees can range from 0.17% to 1.19% of net asset value annually, with the majority of the assets falling between 0.27% and 0.60%. The Company, through its Symphony subsidiary, earns performance fees for performance above specifically defined benchmarks. These fees are generally measured annually and are recognized only at the performance measurement date contained in the individual account management agreement. The underlying measurement dates for approximately 80% of investors' capital fall in the second half of the year. The Company pays ICAP, SC, WM, SM, FR and GA a portfolio advisory fee for sub-advisory services. The sub-advisory fees are based on the percentage of the aggregate amount of average daily net assets in the funds they sub-advise. The fee schedules provide for rate declines as asset levels increase. Pursuant to sub-advisory agreements, the Company, through its advisory subsidiaries, performs portfolio management services on behalf of two equity-based closed-end funds and a Canadian senior loan fund traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange. These sub-advisory agreements are with IQ Investment Advisors, a subsidiary of Merrill Lynch, and Fairway Capital Management, respectively. The Company earns sub-advisory fees based on the assets in the funds it sub-advises. 7 INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT AGREEMENTS Each managed fund has entered into an investment management agreement with a Nuveen Investments advisory subsidiary (each, an "Adviser"). Although the specific terms of each agreement vary, the basic terms are similar. Pursuant to the agreements, the Adviser provides overall management services to each of the funds, subject to the supervision of each fund's Board of Directors and in accordance with each fund's investment objectives and policies. The investment management agreements are approved initially by fund shareholders and their continuance must be approved annually by the directors of the respective funds, including a majority of the directors who are not "interested persons" of the Adviser, as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940. Amendments to such agreements typically must be approved by fund shareholders. Each agreement may be terminated without penalty by either party upon 60 days' written notice, and terminates automatically upon its assignment (as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940). Such an "assignment" will take place in the event of a change in control of the Adviser. Under the Investment Company Act of 1940, a change in control of the Adviser would be deemed to occur in the event of certain changes in the ownership of the Company's voting stock. The termination of all or a portion of the investment management agreements, for any reason, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations. Each fund bears all expenses associated with its operations, including the costs associated with the issuance and redemption of securities, where applicable. The fund does not bear compensation expenses of directors and officers of the fund who are employed by the Company or its subsidiaries. Some of the Company's investment management agreements provide that, to the extent certain enumerated expenses exceed a specified percentage of a fund's or a portfolio's average net assets for a given year, the Adviser will absorb such excess through a reduction in the management fee and, if necessary, pay such expenses so that the year-to-date net expense will not exceed the specified percentage. In addition, the Company may voluntarily waive all or a portion of its advisory fee from a fund, and/or reimburse expenses, for competitive reasons. Reimbursed expenses for mutual funds, including voluntary waivers, totaled $0.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. The Company expects to continue voluntary waivers at its discretion. The amount of such waivers may be more or less than historical amounts. Services provided by NWQ, Santa Barbara, Rittenhouse, Nuveen and Symphony to each of the individual accounts are also governed by management contracts, which are customized to suit a particular account. A majority of these contracts and of Rittenhouse's, Nuveen's and NWQ's assets under management involve investment management services provided to clients who are participants in "wrap-fee" programs sponsored by unaffiliated investment advisers or broker-dealers. Such agreements, and the other investment agreements to which Rittenhouse, NWQ and Nuveen are parties, generally provide that they can be terminated without penalty upon written notice by either party within any specified period. Under the provisions of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, such investment management agreements may not be assigned to another manager without the client's consent. The term "assignment" is broadly defined under this Act to include any direct or indirect transfer of the contract or of a controlling block of the adviser's stock by a security holder. OVERVIEW OF DISTRIBUTION AND RELATIONSHIPS WITH DISTRIBUTORS The Company distributes its investment products and services, including separately managed accounts, closed-end funds and mutual funds, through registered representatives associated with unaffiliated national and regional broker-dealers, commercial banks and thrifts, broker-dealer affiliates of insurance agencies and independent insurance dealers, financial planners, accountants, and tax consultants ("retail distribution firms") and through unaffiliated consultants serving institutional markets. The Company also provides investment products and services directly to institutional markets. The Company's distribution strategy is to maximize the accessibility and distribution potential of its investment products by maintaining strong relationships with a broad array of registered representatives and independent advisors and consultants. The Company has well-established relationships with registered representatives in retail distribution firms throughout the country. These registered representatives participate to varying degrees in the Company's marketing programs, depending upon any one or more of the following factors: their interest in distributing investments provided by 8 the Company; their perceptions of the relative attractiveness of the Company's managed funds and accounts; the profiles of their customers and their clients' needs; and the conditions prevalent in financial markets. Registered representatives may reduce or eliminate their involvement in marketing the Company's products at any time, or may elect to emphasize the investment products of competing sponsors, or the proprietary products of their own firms. Registered representatives may receive compensation incentives to sell their firm's investment products or may choose to recommend to their customers investment products sponsored by firms other than the Company. This decision may be based on such considerations as investment performance, types and amount of distribution compensation, sales assistance and administrative service payments, and level and quality of customer service. In addition, a registered representative's ability to distribute the Company's mutual funds is subject to the continuation of a selling agreement between the firm with which the representative is affiliated and the Company. A selling agreement does not obligate the retail distribution firm to sell any specific amount of products and typically can be terminated by either party upon 60 days notice. Redeemable managed assets (consisting of managed accounts and mutual funds) held in accounts at Merrill Lynch produced 7% of consolidated operating revenue in 2005, the largest percentage of any of our distribution firms. The Company employs external and internal sales and service professionals who work closely with intermediary distribution partner firms and consultants to offer customized solutions for high-net-worth and institutional investors. These professionals regularly meet with independent advisors and consultants, who distribute the Company's products, to help them develop investment portfolio and risk-management strategies designed around the core elements of a diversified portfolio. The Company also employs several professionals who provide education and training to the same independent advisors and consultants. These professionals offer expertise and guidance on a number of topics including wealth management strategies, practice management development, asset allocation and portfolio construction. DISTRIBUTION REVENUE As part of the Company's asset management business, the Company earns revenue upon the distribution of the Company's mutual funds and upon the public offering of new closed-end exchange-traded funds. The Company does not earn distribution revenue upon the establishment of individual or institutional managed accounts. Common shares of closed-end funds are initially sold to the public in offerings that are underwritten by a syndication group, including the Company, through our Nuveen Investments, LLC broker-dealer. Underwriting fees earned are dependent upon our level of participation in the syndicate. During the year ended December 31, 2005, there were four new closed-end fund offerings. All of the Company's mutual funds have adopted a Flexible Sales Charge Program that provides investors with alternative ways of purchasing fund shares based upon their individual needs and preferences. Class A shares may be purchased at a price equal to the fund's net asset value plus an up-front sales charge ranging from 2.5% of the public offering price for limited-term municipal funds to 5.75% for equity funds. At the maximum sales charge level, approximately 90% to 95% of the sales charge is typically reallowed as a concession to the retail distribution firms. From time to time, the Company may reallow all of the sales charge to retail distribution firms or waive the sales charge and advance a sales commission to such firms in connection with marketing programs or special promotions. Additionally, purchases of Class A shares that equal or exceed $1 million may be made without an up-front sales charge, but are subject to a Contingent Deferred Sales Charge ("CDSC") ranging from 0.50% to 1% for shares redeemed within 18 months. In order to compensate retail distribution firms for Class A share sales that are $1 million or greater, the Company advances a sales commission ranging from 0.50% to 1.75% at the time of sale. Class A shares are also subject to an annual SEC Rule 12b-1 service fee of between 0.20% and 0.25% of assets, which is used to compensate securities dealers for providing on-going financial advice and other services to investors. 9 Class B shares may be purchased at a price equal to the fund's net asset value without an up-front sales charge. Class B shares are subject to an annual SEC Rule 12b-1 distribution fee of 0.75% of assets to compensate the Company for costs incurred in connection with the sale of such shares, an annual SEC Rule 12b-1 service fee of between 0.20% and 0.25% of assets for the on-going services of securities dealers, and a CDSC which declines from 5% to 1% for shares redeemed within a period of 5 or 6 years. The Company compensates retail distribution firms for sales of Class B shares at the time of sale at the rate of 4% of the amount of Class B shares sold, which represents a sales commission plus an advance of the first year's annual SEC Rule 12b-1 service fee. Class B shares convert to Class A shares after they are held for eight years. Class C shares may be purchased without an up-front sales charge at a price equal to the fund's net asset value. However, these shares are subject to an annual SEC Rule 12b-1 distribution fee of 0.35% to 0.75% of assets designed to compensate securities dealers over time for the sale of the fund shares, an annual SEC Rule 12b-1 service fee of between 0.20% and 0.25% of assets used to compensate securities dealers for providing continuing financial advice and other services, and a 1% CDSC for shares redeemed within 12 months of purchase. In addition, the Company advances a 1% sales commission to retail distribution firms at the time of sale and, in return, receives the first year's SEC Rule 12b-1 distribution fee and SEC Rule 12b-1 service fee. Class R shares are available for purchase at a price equal to the fund's net asset value with no on-going fees or CDSCs. These shares are available primarily to clients of fee-based advisers, wrap programs and others under certain limited circumstances. The markets for mutual funds are highly competitive, with many participating sponsors. Based upon the information available, the Company believes that it held significantly less than a 5% share of the market with respect to net sales of mutual funds in each of the last three years. GENERAL BUSINESS DISCUSSIONS ADVERTISING AND PROMOTION The Company provides individual registered representatives with daily prices, weekly, monthly and quarterly sales bulletins, monthly product, statistical and performance updates, product education programs, product training seminars, and promotional programs coordinated with its advertising campaigns. In addition, the Company regularly coordinates its marketing and promotional efforts with individual registered representatives. The Company also augments its marketing efforts through magazine, newspaper and television advertising, targeted direct mail and telemarketing sales programs, web-based marketing and sponsorship of certain sports and civic activities. EMPLOYEES At December 31, 2005, the Company had 743 full-time employees. Employees are compensated with a combination of salary, cash bonus and fringe benefits. In addition, the Company has sought to retain its key and senior employees through competitive compensation arrangements, which include equity-based incentive awards. The Company considers its relations with its employees to be good. COMPETITION The Company is subject to substantial competition in all aspects of its business. The registered representatives that distribute the Company's investment products also distribute numerous competing products, often including products sponsored by the retail distribution firms where they are employed. There are relatively few barriers to entry for new investment management firms. The Company's managed account business is also subject to substantial competition from other investment management firms seeking to be approved as managers in the various "wrap-fee" programs. The sponsor firms have a limited number of approved managers at the highest and most attractive levels of their programs and closely monitor the investment performance of such firms on an on-going basis as they evaluate which firms are eligible for continued 10 participation in these programs. The Company is also subject to competition in obtaining the commitment of underwriters to underwrite its closed-end fund offerings. To the extent the increased competition for underwriting and distribution causes higher distribution costs, the Company's net revenue and earnings will be reduced. Investment products are sold to the public by broker-dealers, banks, insurance companies and others, and many competing investment product sponsors offer a broader array of investment products. Many of these institutions have substantially greater resources than the Company. In addition, continuing consolidation in the financial services industry is altering the landscape in which the Company's distributors compete and the economics of many of the products they offer. The effect that these continuing changes in the brokerage and investment management industries will have on the Company and its competitors cannot be predicted. The Company competes with other providers of products primarily on the basis of the range of products offered, the investment performance of such products, quality of service, fees charged, the level and type of broker compensation, the manner in which such products are marketed and distributed, and the services provided to registered representatives and investors. REGULATORY Nuveen Investments, LLC is registered as a broker-dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), the NASD Regulation, Inc. (the "NASD") and other federal and state agencies and self-regulatory organizations. Nuveen Investments, LLC is subject to the SEC's Uniform Net Capital Rule, designed to enforce minimum standards regarding the general financial condition and liquidity of a broker-dealer. Under certain circumstances, this rule may limit the ability of the Company to make withdrawals of capital and receive dividends from Nuveen Investments, LLC. Nuveen Investments, LLC's regulatory net capital has consistently exceeded such minimum net capital requirements. At December 31, 2005, Nuveen Investments, LLC had aggregate net capital, as defined, of approximately $20.1 million, which exceeded the regulatory minimum by approximately $18.5 million. The securities industry is one of the most highly regulated in the United States, and failure to comply with related laws and regulations can result in the revocation of broker-dealer licenses, the imposition of censures or fines, and the suspension or expulsion of a firm and/or its employees from the securities business. Each of our investment adviser subsidiaries (and each of the previously identified unaffiliated sub-advisers to certain of the Company's funds) is registered with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act. Each closed-end fund, open-end fund and defined portfolio is registered with the SEC under the Investment Company Act. Each national open-end fund is qualified for sale (or not required to be so qualified) in all states in the United States and the District of Columbia. Each single-state open-end fund is qualified for sale (or not required to be so qualified) in the state for which it is named and other designated states. Virtually all aspects of the Company's investment management business, including the business of the sub-advisers, are subject to various federal and state laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to benefit the investment product holder and generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the Company (and any sub-adviser) from carrying on its investment management business in the event that it fails to comply with such laws and regulations. In such event, the possible sanctions, which may be imposed, include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on the Company's engaging in the investment management business for specified periods of time, the revocation of the Advisers' registrations as investment advisers or other censures and fines. The Company's officers, directors, and employees may, from time to time, own securities that are also held by one or more of the funds. The Company's internal policies with respect to individual investments require prior clearance of all transactions in securities of the Company and other restrictions are imposed with respect to transactions in the Company's closed-end fund securities. Employees who are access persons of the Rittenhouse, Symphony, NWQ, Santa Barbara or Nuveen investment disciplines are subject to additional restrictions with respect to the pre-clearance of the purchase or sale of securities held in, or considered for, investor accounts and funds. These restrictions are based on the position of the employee and his or her access to, or participation in, the investment process of the adviser. The Company also requires employees to report transactions in certain covered securities and restricts certain transactions so as to seek to avoid the possibility of improper use of information relating to management of client accounts. 11 Regulatory authorities, including the NASD and the SEC, examine our registered broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries, or the registered investment companies managed by our affiliates, from time to time in the regular course of their businesses. In addition, from time to time the Company or one or more of its registered subsidiaries receives information requests from a regulatory authority as part of an industry-wide "sweep" examination of particular topics or industry practices. AVAILABLE INFORMATION The Company's website is www.nuveen.com. The Company makes available free of charge through its internet site, via a link to a third party provider, its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed on behalf of directors and executive officers, and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information about the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS WE FACE SUBSTANTIAL COMPETITION IN THE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT BUSINESS. All aspects of our business are subject to substantial competition. This includes competition for continued access to brokerage firms' retail distribution systems and "wrap fee" managed account programs. The loss of such access could result in a loss of assets under management, which could adversely affect our revenues. In addition, in part as a result of the substantial competition in the asset management industry, there has been a trend toward lower fees in some segments of the asset management business. In order for us to maintain our fee structure in a competitive environment, we must be able to provide clients with investment returns and service that will encourage them to be willing to pay such fees. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current fee structure or that we will be able to develop new products that the market or our registered representatives find attractive. Fee reductions on existing or future business could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. OUR BUSINESS RELIES ON THIRD-PARTY DISTRIBUTION PROGRAMS. Our ability to distribute our products is highly dependent on access to the client base of financial advisors that also offer competing investment products. Registered representatives who recommend our products may reduce or eliminate their involvement in marketing our products at any time, or may elect to emphasize the investment products of competing sponsors, or the proprietary products of their own firms. In addition, registered representatives may receive compensation incentives to sell their firm's investment products or may choose to recommend to their customers investment products sponsored by firms other than us. In addition, a registered representative's ability to distribute our mutual funds is subject to the continuation of a selling agreement between the firm with which the representative is affiliated and us. We cannot be sure that we will continue to gain access to these financial advisors. The inability to have this access could have a material adverse effect on our business. DECLINES IN SECURITIES MARKETS OR POOR INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT AND OUR FUTURE OFFERINGS. Securities markets are inherently volatile and may be impacted by factors beyond our control, including such factors as global, national and local political and economic conditions, inflation, investor preferences and legal and regulatory changes. Declines in securities markets may reduce our assets under management and sales of our products, and, as a result, adversely affect our revenues. In addition, our investment performance is one of 12 the primary factors associated with the success of our business. Poor investment performance by our managers could adversely affect our revenue and growth as a result of a reduction in assets under management and redemptions by existing clients, which would result in lower investment management fees, reduction in performance fees earned by our businesses, as well as a diminished ability to sell our products and attract new funds in future offerings. FLUCTUATIONS IN INTEREST RATES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT. A substantial portion of our assets under management are invested in fixed-income securities. Increases in interest rates from their present levels may adversely affect the net asset values of these assets. In addition, increases in interest rates may have a magnified adverse effect on our leveraged closed-end funds. Moreover, fluctuations in interest rates may have a significant impact on securities markets, which may adversely affect our assets under management. OUR BUSINESS IS DEPENDENT UPON OUR RETAINING OUR KEY PERSONNEL. Our executive officers, investment professionals and senior marketing personnel are highly important elements of the success of our business. The market for qualified personnel to fill these roles is extremely competitive. We anticipate that we will need to recruit and retain qualified investment professionals and marketing personnel. However, we may not be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. The loss of key personnel or the inability to recruit and retain portfolio managers or marketing personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. OUR BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE REGULATION, AND COMPLIANCE FAILURES AND CHANGES IN REGULATION COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT US. Our investment advisory business is subject to client guidelines and contractual and other requirements. A failure to adhere to these guidelines or satisfy these requirements could result in client withdrawals and could result in losses which could be recovered by the client from us in certain circumstances. Our businesses are also subject to extensive regulation, including by the SEC and the NASD. Our failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or rules of self-regulatory organizations could cause regulatory authorities to institute proceedings against us or our subsidiaries and could result in the imposition of sanctions ranging from censure and fines to termination of an investment adviser or broker-dealer's registration and otherwise prohibiting an investment adviser from acting as an investment adviser. Changes in laws, regulations, rules of self-regulatory organizations or in governmental policies, and unforeseen developments in litigation targeting the securities industry generally or us, could have a material adverse effect on us. The impact of future accounting pronouncements could also have a material adverse affect upon us. OUR REVENUES WILL DECREASE IF OUR INVESTMENT ADVISORY CONTRACTS ARE TERMINATED. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from investment advisory agreements. Our investment advisory agreements with registered fund clients are approved initially by the sole fund shareholder and their continuance must be approved annually by the trustees of the respective funds, including a majority of the trustees who are not "interested persons" of our relevant advisory subsidiary or the fund, as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, to which we refer as the "Investment Company Act". Amendments to these agreements typically must be approved by funds' boards of trustees and, if material, by the shareholders. Each agreement may be terminated without penalty by either party upon 60 days written notice. In addition, under the Investment Company Act, each of the investment advisory agreements of our advisory subsidiaries with registered fund clients would terminate automatically upon its assignment (as 13 defined in the Investment Company Act). Our investment advisory agreements with advisory clients other than registered fund clients generally provide that they can be terminated without penalty upon written notice by either party within any specified period. Under the provisions of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, to which we refer as the "Investment Advisers Act", those investment advisory agreements may not be assigned without the client's consent. The term "assignment" is broadly defined under the Investment Company Act and the Investment Advisers Act to include any direct or indirect transfer of the contract or of a controlling block of the adviser's stock by a security holder. The termination of all or a portion of the investment advisory agreements, for any reason, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH CLIENT CONTRACTUAL REQUIREMENTS AND/OR GUIDELINES COULD HAVE NEGATIVE CONSEQUENCES WHICH COULD CAUSE OUR EARNINGS OR STOCK PRICE TO DECLINE. When clients retain us to manage assets or provide products or services on their behalf, they specify guidelines or contractual requirements that we are required to observe in the provision of our services. A failure to comply with these guidelines or contractual requirements could result in damage to our reputation or to the client seeking to recover losses from us, reducing its assets under management, or terminating its contract with us, any of which could cause our earnings or stock price to decline. WE MAY CONTINUE TO ACQUIRE OTHER COMPANIES, AND THE EXPECTED BENEFITS OF SUCH ACQUISITIONS MAY NOT MATERIALIZE. Acquisitions of complementary businesses and development of strategic alliances have been and may continue to be an active part of our overall business strategy. Services, key personnel or businesses of acquired companies may not be effectively assimilated into our business or service offerings and our alliances may not be successful. Moreover, we may be unable to retain the clients of the companies we acquire, or achieve expected cost reductions or economies of scale. RECENT INCREASES IN INDEBTEDNESS COULD INCREASE THE COSTS OF OUR BORROWING AND MAKE IT MORE DIFFICULT TO RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL IN THE FUTURE. In 2005, we issued $550 million of senior unsecured notes, and incurred $150 million in outstanding borrowings under our $400 million credit facility, principally to refinance existing debt and to finance the repurchase of $600 million of our common stock from STA. See "Item 1. "Business - Company History and Acquisitions." These obligations have resulted in a significant increase in leverage compared to our capital structure prior to their incurrence, which will increase our borrowing costs and could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital in the future. WE ARE DEPENDENT UPON ACCESS TO THE REVENUES OF OUR SUBSIDIARIES. Our cash flow and our ability to service our debt are dependent upon access to the revenues of our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and generally have no obligation to pay the indebtedness or other obligations of Nuveen Investments, Inc. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 