D. Risk Factors. We operate globally in a dynamic and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. The following section lists some, but not all, of those risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Risks Relating to Our Business, Our Industry and our Financing Activities We may incur future losses and be unable to achieve long-term profitability We incurred net losses of approximately $2.5 million and $0.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2008, respectively and in 2009, for the first time in 10 years, recorded net income of $4.2 million. We cannot predict whether we will remain profitable on a sustained basis. Due to the possible decline in orders from existing customers, especially because of the current worldwide economic slowdown, we have no assurance that our revenues in the short to medium term will significantly increase, if at all, and they may decrease. At the same time, expenses may increase in the foreseeable future as we maintain our research and development and sales and marketing activities. Our research and development, sales and marketing efforts may prove more costly than we currently anticipate, and we may not succeed in the long term i n increasing our revenues sufficiently to offset the expenses of those efforts. We must continue to increase our revenues in the future in order to achieve and maintain our profitability. If we fail to do so and our revenues fail to increase at a greater rate than our expenses, we may incur future losses and may be unable to achieve long-term profitability. The current economic slowdown has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our results and financial condition. The crisis of the financial and credit markets worldwide which took place beginning in 2008 led to an economic slowdown worldwide. This has impacted the insurance and financial sectors in which in excess of 50% of our customers operate. The slowdown has resulted in a reduction in demand in some or all of our major markets and downward pressure on pricing in many markets, which has adversely affected our business, results of operations and financial condition by negatively impacting our ability to maintain or increase revenues. Also, significant changes and volatility in the equity, credit and foreign exchange markets, and in the competitive landscape, make it increasingly difficult for us to predict our revenues and earnings into the future. A continuation or worsening of unfavorable economic conditions could have an adverse impact on our fi nancial results and financial condition. 3 Implementing our strategy of focusing on the market for software solutions in the insurance industry has taken longer than anticipated, and we may not succeed in gaining acceptance in that market. Our goal is to rise to a position of global leadership in delivering strategic business software solutions to the insurance industry. Achieving this goal requires us, among other things, to design appropriate software solutions, maintain sufficient sales and marketing resources, recruit, train and hire sufficient professional services personnel and face intense competition. We have experienced delays in penetration of the insurance industry, and expect that additional time will be required to achieve our goal. Our future efforts to gain acceptance for our solutions may still not succeed, which could have a material adverse affect on our results. Our working capital may once again decrease and we may need to raise capital again. At December 31, 2009, we had positive working capital of $0.9 million. Despite our positive cash flow from operations generated in 2008 and 2009, our overall positive cash flow in 2009 and the $20 million (excluding finders’ fees and out of pocket expenses) of capital that we were able to raise from investors in 2007, there is no assurance that we will not need to raise additional capital in the future. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing, or if we do, that it will be on favorable terms. In addition, if we issue capital stock to investors in order to raise cash, our existing shareholders will experience dilution. The software solutions market that we address is expected to evolve rapidly, and if we are not able to accurately predict and rapidly respond to market developments or customer needs, our competitive position will be impaired. The market for our solutions is characterized by rapidly changing business conditions and customer requirements, yet estimates of its expected growth are inherently uncertain and are subject to many risks and assumptions. Many of our customers operate in markets characterized by rapidly changing technologies and business plans, which makes it difficult for us to predict their demands. The introduction of solutions embodying new technology and the emergence of new customer requirements can render existing technology obsolete and unmarketable. We are particularly susceptible to those changes since our software is used in a wide array of operating environments, which are constantly evolving. We may need to rapidly develop and introduce additional software and enhancements to our existing solutions to satisfy our current customers and maintain o ur competitive position in the marketplace. We may also need to modify our software so that it can operate with new or enhanced software that may be introduced by other software vendors. The failure to anticipate changes in technology and customer requirements and successfully develop, enhance or modify our software solutions, or the failure to do so on a timely basis, could limit our revenue growth and competitive position. We have experienced in the past, and anticipate experiencing in the future, delays in the timing of the introduction of new solutions and market acceptance of those solutions. Furthermore, substantial expenditures are required for research and development and the introduction of new, enhanced or modified products. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to make such investments, especially in light of the current worldwide financial and economic situation, or that these investments will bring the full advantages or any advantage as planned. To support our software development, enhancement or modification, we may also find it necessary to license or acquire new technologies, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter technical or other difficulties that could delay introduction of new technologies or enhancements in the future. Various sectors of our market are served by competitors who may respond more effectively to market developments and customer needs. Our failure, for technological or other reasons, to timely develop and market products incorporating new technologies, or the development of the market for our solutions in a manner that we do not expect, could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects and competitive position, and, consequently, on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If existing customers do not make subsequent purchases from us or if our relationships with our largest customers are impaired, our revenue could be negatively affected Our existing customers are a key asset of ours, and we depend on repeat product and service revenues from our base of customers. Our relationships with two large customers of our U.S. subsidiary – Texas Farm Bureau Insurance Companies and Occidental Fire & Casualty; a large customer of our subsidiary in the United Kingdom – Liverpool Victoria Friendly Services ("Liverpool Victoria"); one large customer of our subsidiary in Japan and one large customer of our subsidiary in Israel – Menora Mivtachim Insurance Ltd. (“Menora”), are the sources of a large portion of the revenues of those respective subsidiaries. During 2009, revenues from sales to the American customers specified above constituted 33.9% of the total revenues of the U.S. subsidiary (5.8% of our consolidated revenues); revenues from sales to the British custo mer specified above constituted 32.1% of the total revenues of the U.K. subsidiary (8.7% of our consolidated revenues); revenues from sales to the Japanese customer specified above constituted 44.4% of the total revenues of our Japanese subsidiary (9.7% of our consolidated revenues); and revenues from sales to the Israeli customer specified above constituted 71.9% of the total revenues of the Israeli subsidiary (23.5% of our consolidated revenues). There can be no assurance that our existing customers will enter into new project contracts with us or that they will continue using our enabling technologies. If our revenue stream from existing customers were to decline significantly, it would have a material adverse impact on our operating results. In light of the worldwide financial and economic situation, we have seen a delay and reduction in investments by our customers in the solutions that we offer. If this trend continues, it could negatively impact our financial results. 4 We compete against companies with significantly greater resources than our own. The market for software solutions and related services, and for business solutions for the insurance industry, in particular, is highly competitive. Our principal competitors generally have significantly greater resources than we do. Our customers or potential customers could prefer suppliers that are larger than us and that have not experienced losses such as ours. There is no guarantee that our customers, present and future, will be confident in our financial stability going forward. Price reductions or declines in demand for our solutions and services, whether as a result of competition, technological change, economic downturn, changes in the level of application development, reengineering or maintenance performed internally by our customers or potential customers would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our business involves long-term, large projects, some of which are fixed-price projects that involve uncertainties, such as estimated project costs and profit margins. Our business is characterized by relatively large projects or engagements that can have a significant impact on our total revenue and cost of revenue from quarter to quarter. A high percentage of our expenses, particularly employee compensation, is relatively fixed. Therefore, a variation in the timing of the initiation, progress or completion of projects or engagements, especially at or near the end of any quarter, can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. Some of our solutions are sold as fixed-price projects with delivery requirements spanning more than one year. If our actual cost-to-completion of these projects differs significantly from the estimated costs, we could experience a loss on the related contracts, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operatio ns, financial position and cash flow. Similarly, delays in executing client contracts may affect our revenue and cause our operating results to vary widely. Some of our solutions may be priced in excess of $1.0 million and are delivered over periods of time ranging from several months to a few years. Payment terms are generally based on periodic payments or on the achievement of milestones. Any delays in payment or in the achievement of milestones may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. The sales cycle for our solutions is long and variable, typically ranging between nine months to eighteen months from initial contact with the potential client to the signing of a contract. Occasionally, sales require substantially more time. This variability may adversely affect our operating results in any particular quarter. Defects in our technology would harm our business and divert resources. The quality of our products, enhancements and new versions is critical to our success. Since our software solutions are complex, they may contain errors that can be detected at any point in their life cycle. Any errors or defects in our technology could result in: ● delayed or lost revenue; ● failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; ● claims against us; ● diversion of development resources; ● increased service, warranty and insurance costs; and ● negative publicity resulting in damage to our reputation. While we continually test our products for errors and work with customers to identify and correct them, errors in our technology may be found in the future. Testing for errors is complicated because it is difficult to simulate the breadth of operating systems, user applications and computing environments that our customers use and because our software is becoming increasingly complex itself. The costs we may incur in addressing technology errors could be substantial and could impair our results of operations. 5 Our business involves business-critical solutions which expose us to potential liability claims. Our products focus on organizations’ business-critical applications, including those related to core business solutions for the insurance industry, and we provide re-engineering and re-development services for customers’ specialized needs. Since our customers rely on our software to operate, monitor and improve the performance of their critical software applications, they are sensitive to potential disruptions that may be caused by the use of, or any defects in, our software. As a result, we may be subject to claims for damages related to software errors in the future. Liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. Regardless of whether we prevail, diversion of key employees’ time and attention from our business, incurrence of substantial expenses and potential damage to our reputation might result. While the terms of our sales contracts typically limit our exposure to potential liability claims, and we carry errors and omissions insurance against such claims, there can be no assurance that such insurance will continue to be available on acceptable terms, if at all, or that such insurance will provide us with adequate protection against any such claims. A significant liability claim against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Although we protect our intellectual property rights, there can be no assurance that the measures that we employ to do so will be successful. In accordance with industry practice, since we have no registered patents, we rely on a combination of contractual provisions and intellectual property law to protect our proprietary technology. We believe that due to the dynamic nature of the computer and software industries, copyright protection is less significant than factors such as the knowledge and experience of our management and personnel, the frequency of product enhancements and the timeliness and quality of our support services. We seek to protect the source code of our products as trade secret information and as unpublished copyright works. We also rely on security and copy protection features in our proprietary software. We distribute our products under software license agreements that grant customers a personal, non-transferable license to use our products and contain terms an d conditions prohibiting the unauthorized reproduction or transfer of our products. In addition, we attempt to protect trade secrets and other proprietary information through non-disclosure agreements with employees, consultants and distributors. Although we intend to protect our rights vigorously, there can be no assurance that these measures will be successful. Our failure to protect our rights, or the improper use of our products by others without licensing them from us, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our Sapiens eMerge™ solution is proprietary to us and if we need to hire programmers, maintenance and professional services providers, we would incur training costs and delays due to training. Our Sapiens eMerge™ solution was designed by us and its use requires special knowledge and training. If our current employees leave the Company or if a new project is undertaken by the Company and we need to hire new programmers or people to provide maintenance and professional services to our customers, we would have to train the new employees and consultants in Sapiens eMerge™. As a result, we would incur training costs and would have to delay implementation of projects and services until such individuals were adequately trained. In addition, once these individuals are initially trained, they would still be inexperienced with Sapiens eMerge™ and would take additional time to develop efficiency and proficiency with Sapiens eMerge™. As a result of these costs and delays, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations, our financial condition, our cash flows and our relationships with our customers. Some of our potential customers are reluctant to purchase proprietary solutions. Some customers of information technology solutions are reluctant to purchase solutions that are not off-the-shelf or widely used by a broad customer base. Since our Sapiens eMerge™ solution and our Sapiens INSIGHT™ suite of solutions are proprietary to us and require special knowledge and training, we have faced reluctance by potential customers to purchase such proprietary solutions. Such reluctance could have a negative impact on our results of operations and our financial condition. 6 Our future results could be adversely affected by an impairment of the value of certain intangible assets. The assets as of December 31, 2009 include, among other things, goodwill amounting to approximately $8.6 million, capitalized software development costs, net, amounting to approximately $13.5 million, long-term deferred income taxes amounting to approximately $1.8 million, and short-term deferred income taxes amounting to approximately $1.5 million. The applicable accounting standards require that (a) goodwill be tested for impairment at least annually, and written down when impaired; (b) capitalized software costs be assessed for recoverability on a regular basis, to determine whether the amortization of the asset over its remaining life can be recovered through undiscounted future operating cash flows from the specific software product sold, in accordance with ASC 985 "Software"; and (c) certain identifiable intangible assets such as deferred taxes b e reviewed for impairment in certain circumstances. If our goodwill, capitalized software development costs, or deferred tax assets, were deemed to be impaired in whole or in part due to us not achieving its goals, we could be required to reduce or write off such assets, thus having to recognize additional expense in our statements of operations and to reduce our shareholders’ equity. As part of our business strategy, we may make acquisitions that could disrupt our business and harm our results of operations and financial condition. As part of our growth strategy, we may consider acquiring complementary technologies, products and businesses. If we use capital stock in connection with such acquisitions, our existing shareholders may experience dilution. If we use cash or debt financing, our financial liquidity will be reduced, the holders of our debt would have claims on our assets ahead of holders of our Common Shares and our business operations may be restricted by the terms of any debt. An acquisition may involve nonrecurring charges or amortization of significant amounts of intangible assets, which would adversely affect our ability to achieve and maintain profitability. Attempted acquisitions may divert management, operational and financial resources from the conduct of our core business, and we may not complete any attempted acquisition. Risks Relating to Our International Operations, Particularly in Israel Our international operations involve inherent risks, such as foreign currency fluctuations and compliance with various regulatory and tax regimes. Most of our revenues are derived from international operations that are conducted in local currencies as well as dollars. Changes in the value of such local currencies or the dollar relative to such local currencies may affect our financial position and results of operations. Gains and losses on translations to dollars of assets and liabilities may contribute to fluctuations in our financial position and results of operations. In certain locations, we engage in currency-hedging transactions intended to reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our financial position and results of operations. However, there can be no assurance that any such hedging transaction will materially reduce the effect of fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates on such results. In addition, if for any reason exchange or price cont rols or other restrictions on the conversion of foreign currencies were imposed, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. Other potential risks that may impact our international business activities include longer accounts receivable payment cycles, the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and changes in regulatory requirements, although such factors have not had a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations to date. 7 We face currency exchange risks, as changes in exchange rates between the US dollar and other currencies, especially the NIS, may negatively impact our costs. Exchange rate fluctuations between the US dollar and other currencies which we and our subsidiaries use, especially the NIS, may negatively affect our earnings. A significant portion of our expenses, including research and development, personnel and facilities-related expenses, are incurred in Israel, in NIS. (On April 1st, 2010, the exchange rate between the NIS and the US dollar was NIS 3.697 per 1 US dollar.) Consequently, we are exposed to the risk of appreciation of the NIS vis-à-vis the US dollar. This appreciation would cause, and in 2008 did cause, an increase in our expenses as recorded in our US dollar denominated financial statements even if the expenses denominated in local currencies remains unchanged. Accordingly, our level of revenues and profits may be ad versely affected by exchange rate fluctuations. The depreciation of the NIS vis-à-vis the US dollar in 2009 was not significant, and the exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and other currencies which we and our subsidiaries use, did not cause any significant change in our foreign currency transaction differences, compared to $0.3 million in 2008. A material portion of our revenues in 2009 were, and will continue to be in future years, denominated in the British pound (the “GBP”) and as a result, the appreciation of the U.S. dollar versus the GBP during 2009 had a material adverse impact on our U.S. dollar translated revenues and results of operations within the U.K. See Note 14.b to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein. We cannot predict any future trends in the US dollar/ NIS exchange rate or the US dollar/GBP exchange rate. We cannot assure you that we will not be materially affected in the future by currency exchange rate fluctuations. See Item 11- "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk - Foreign Currency Risk." Conducting business in Israel entails certain inherent risks that could harm our business. Our corporate headquarters and research and development facilities are located in the State of Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. We could be adversely affected by any major hostilities involving Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. In addition, several countries still restrict business with Israel and with companies doing business in Israel. These political, economic and military conditions in Israel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth. Since September 2000, there has been a marked increase in violence, civil unrest and hostility, including armed clashes, between the State of Israel and the Palestinians, and acts of terror have been committed inside Israel and against Israeli targets in the West Bank and Gaza. These developments have adversely affected the regional peace process, placed the Israeli economy under significant stress, and have negatively influenced Israel’s relationship with several Arab countries. The establishment in 2006 of a government in the Palestinian Authority by representatives of the Hamas militant group resulted in an escalation in violence among Israel, the Palestinian Authority and other groups and has created additional unrest and uncertainty in the region. Further, during the summer of 2006, Israel was engaged in a war with Hez bollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group, which involved rockets being fired from Lebanon up to 50 miles into Israel and disrupted most day-to-day civilian activity in northern Israel. In January 2009, Israel engaged in a military action against Hamas in Gaza to prevent continued rocket attacks against Israel. These developments have further strained relations between Israel and the Palestinians. Any future armed conflict, political instability or violence in the region, including acts of terrorism, may have a negative effect on our business condition, harm our results of operations and adversely affect our share price. Some of our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform military reserve duty, currently consisting of approximately 30 days of service annually (or more for reserves officers or citizens with certain occupations). Additionally, they are subject to being called to active duty at any time upon the outbreak of hostilities. While we have operated effectively under these requirements since the establishment of Sapiens, no assessment can be made as to the full impact of such requirements on our business or work force and no prediction can be made as to the effect on us of any expansion of such obligations. 8 Risks Related to an Investment in our Common Shares If we fail to meet the standards for continued listing of our shares on NASDAQ, the shares could be de-listed from the NASDAQ Capital Market. A company must continue to comply with several requirements in order to remain listed on NASDAQ. One of the requirements is that a company maintains a $1.00 minimum bid price (the “Minimum Bid Price Requirement”). Under the NASDAQ Listing Rules, a failure to meet the continued listing requirement for minimum bid price on the NASDAQ Capital Market shall be determined to exist only if the deficiency continues for a period of 30 consecutive business days. Between February 17, 2009 and August 19 2009, the closing price of our Common Shares on the NASDAQ Capital Market was below $1.00 and since August 20, 2009, has been above $1.00. The closing price of our Common Shares on the NASDAQ Capital Market, on April 1, 2010, was $2.04 per share. If we fail to comply with the Minimum Bid Price Requirement, our Common Shares could be de-listed from the NASDAQ Capital Market, which could have a material adverse effect on our share price and our standing with current and future investors. In addition, if we are de-listed from the NASDAQ Capital Market, we may no longer be eligible for certain benefits granted by the Israel Securities Law to companies that are “dual listed” on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange and a foreign (non-Israeli) securities exchange. The removal of such benefits would require us to incur additional costs relating to periodic reporting in Israel and would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will continue to meet all of the requirements for continued NASDAQ listing. Failure to meet one of NASDAQ's continued listing standards could result in the delisting of our Common Shares from NASDAQ. Our Common Shares are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our Common Shares are traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market and the TASE. Trading in our Common Shares on these markets will be made in different currencies (US dollars on the NASDAQ Capital Market and NIS on the TASE), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the U.S. and Israel). The trading prices of our Common Shares on these two markets may differ due to these and other factors. Any decrease in the trading price of our Common Shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our Common Shares on the other market. There is very little trading volume for our Common Shares, which causes the stock price to be volatile and which may lead to losses by investors. There is very little trading volume for our Common Shares, both on the NASDAQ Capital Market and the TASE. As a result, our Common Shares have experienced significant market price volatility in the past and may experience significant market price and volume fluctuations in the future, in response to factors such as announcements of developments related to our business, announcements by competitors, quarterly fluctuations in our financial results and general conditions in the industry in which we compete. Our quarterly results may be impacted by multiple short-term factors, thereby causing variability in such results and enhanced volatility in the market price of our Common Shares. Our revenue and operating results could vary widely from quarter to quarter as a result of several different factors, such as the budgeting and purchasing practices of our customers, the length of our customers' product evaluation process, the timing of our customers’ system conversions, the timing and cost of new product introductions and product enhancements, and the timing of any acquisitions and associated costs. Employee hiring and the rate of utilization of such employees may also affect our revenues and results of operations. Such variation in results from quarter to quarter could cause enhanced volatility in the market price of our Common Shares. 9 Formula Systems (1985) Ltd. and its parent company Emblaze Ltd., may exercise control and influence corporate actions in a manner that potentially conflicts with our other public shareholders. Formula Systems (1985) Ltd. (“Formula”), whose ADRs trade on NASDAQ (under the trading symbol: FORTY) and whose shares trade on the TASE (under the trading symbol: FORT), directly owned (as of December 31, 2009) 15,206,426, or approximately 70%, of our currently outstanding Common Shares. In November 2006, Emblaze Ltd. (“Emblaze”), whose ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange (under the trading symbol: BLZ.L), purchased the controlling interest of Formula, and as a result, control of us. As of April 1, 2010, Emblaze owned 49.19% of the outstanding share capital of Formula and, therefore, has a controlling influence over us. Emblaze, through Formula, is and may continue to be in a position to exercise control over most matters requiring shareholder approval. Formula may use its share ownership or representation on our Board of Directors to substantially influence corporate actions that conflict with the interests of our other public shareholders including, without limitation, changing the size and composition of our Board of Directors and committees of our Board of Directors, causing the issuance of further securities, amending our governing documents or otherwise controlling the outcome of shareholder votes. Further, actions by Formula with respect to the disposition of the Common Shares it beneficially owns, or the perception that such actions may occur, may adversely affect the trading price of our Common Shares. Guy Bernstein from Emblaze and Formula serves as Chairman of our Board of Directors. If we are classified as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. Generally, if for any taxable year, after applying certain look-through rules, 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of the value of our assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to our shareholders who are U.S. taxpayers, including having gain realized on the sale of our Common Shares being treated as ordinary income rather than capital gain income, and could result in punitive interest charges being applied to such sales proceeds. Rules similar to those applicable to dispositions apply to amounts treated as “excess distributions.” We believe we were not a PFIC in 2009, just as we believe we were not a PFIC for at least the past 5 years. We currently expect that we will not be a PFIC in 2010. However, PFIC status is determined as of the end of the taxable year and is dependent on a number of factors. Therefore, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC for the year ending December 31, 2010 or in a future taxable year. U.S. shareholders should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our Common Shares. For a discussion of how we might be characterized as a PFIC and related tax consequences, please see Item 10.E, “Additional Information – Taxation - U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations - Tax Consequences if We Are a Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 