D. Risk Factors. We operate globally in a dynamic and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. The following section lists some, but not all, of those risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Risks Relating to Our Business, Our Industry and our Financing Activities We may be unable to achieve long-term profitability After consistently incurring net losses for 10 years, we recorded net income of $4.2 million in 2009 and net income of $6.2 in 2010. Nevertheless, we cannot predict whether we will remain profitable on a sustained basis. Although we have experienced an increase in orders from our customers, we have no assurance that our revenues in the short to medium term will continue to increase, if at all, and they may decrease, particularly if customer orders decline. At the same time, expenses may increase in the foreseeable future as we increase our research and development and sales and marketing activities. Our research and development, sales and marketing efforts may prove more costly than we currently anticipate, and we may not succeed in the long term in increasing our revenues sufficiently to offset the expenses of those efforts. We may be required to continue to increase our revenues in the future in order to achieve and maintain our profitability. If we fail to do so and our revenues fail to increase at a greater rate than our expenses, we may incur future losses and may be unable to achieve long-term profitability. 3 Implementing our strategy of focusing on the market for software solutions in the insurance industry has taken longer than anticipated, and we may not succeed in gaining acceptance in that market. Our goal is to become a global leader in delivering strategic business software solutions to the insurance industry. Achieving this goal requires us, among other things, to design appropriate software solutions, maintain sufficient sales and marketing resources, recruit, train and hire professional services personnel. We also have faced and will continue to face intense competition in the insurance industry. We have experienced slower than expected penetration of the insurance industry and our market penetration may continue to be slow as we seek to achieve our goal. Our future efforts to gain acceptance for our solutions may still not succeed, which could have a material adverse affect on our results. Our working capital may decrease and we may need to raise additional capital. At December 31, 2010, we had positive working capital of $4.9 million. Despite our positive cash flow from operations generated in 2010, 2009 and 2008 and our overall positive cash flow in 2010, there can be no assurance that we will not need to raise additional capital in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing, or if we do, that it will be on favorable terms. If we issue capital stock to investors in order to raise cash, our existing shareholders will experience dilution. If we obtain debt financing, a substantial portion of our operating cash flow may be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose significant restrictions on our operations. The software solutions market that we address is expected to continue to evolve, and if we are not able to accurately predict and rapidly respond to market developments or customer needs, our competitive position will be impaired. The market for our solutions is characterized by changing business conditions and customer requirements. Nevertheless, estimates of the market's expected growth resulting from the changing conditions and requirements are inherently uncertain and are subject to many risks and assumptions. We may need to develop and introduce additional software and enhancements to our existing solutions to satisfy our current customers and maintain our competitive position in the marketplace. We may also need to modify our software so that it can operate with new or enhanced software that may be introduced by other software vendors. The failure to anticipate changes in technology and customer requirements and successfully develop, enhance or modify our software solutions, or the failure to do so on a timely basis, could limit our revenue growth and competitive position. We have experienced in the past, and anticipate experiencing in the future, delays in the timing of the introduction of new solutions and market acceptance of those solutions. Furthermore, substantial expenditures are required for research and development and the introduction of new, enhanced or modified products. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to make such investments or that these investments will bring the full advantages or any advantage as planned. To support our software development, enhancement or modification, we may also find it necessary to license or acquire new technologies, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter technical or other difficulties that could delay introduction of new technologies or enhancements in the future. 4 If existing customers do not make subsequent purchases from us and continue using our services or if our relationships with our largest customers are impaired, our revenue could be negatively affected Our existing customers are a key asset, and we depend on repeat product and service revenues from our base of customers. Our relationships with three large customers of our North American subsidiaries – Texas Farm Bureau Insurance Companies, Occidental Fire & Casualty and Philadelphia Insurance Company ("Philadelphia"); a large customer of our subsidiary in the United Kingdom – Liverpool Victoria Friendly Services ("Liverpool Victoria"); one large customer of our subsidiary in Japan and one large customer of our subsidiary in Israel – Menora Mivtachim Insurance Ltd. (“Menora”), are the sources of a large portion of the revenues of those respective subsidiaries. During 2010, revenues from North American customers specified above constituted 54% of the total revenues of our North American subsidiaries ( 9% of our consolidated revenues); revenues from British customer specified above constituted 28% of the total revenues of our U.K. subsidiary ( 6% of our consolidated revenues); revenues from our Japanese customer specified above constituted 74.5% of the total revenues of our Japanese subsidiary (16% of our consolidated revenues); and revenues from the Israeli customer specified above constituted 69% of the total revenues of our Israeli subsidiary (26% of our consolidated revenues). There can be no assurance that our existing customers will enter into new project contracts with us or that they will continue using our technologies. A significant decline in our revenue stream from existing customers would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In recent years, during the worldwide financial and economic crisis, we saw a delay and reduction in investments by our customers in the solutions that we offer. If this trend recurs, it could negatively impact our financial results We compete against companies with significantly greater resources than our own. The market for software solutions and related services and for business solutions for the insurance industry in particular, is highly competitive. Our principal competitors generally have significantly greater resources than we do. Some of our competitors have been focusing on the insurance market for more than a decade and have already established a broad client base, especially in North America. Our customers or potential customers could prefer suppliers that are larger than us, and are better known in the market. In addition, some customers of information technology solutions are reluctant to purchase solutions that are not off-the-shelf or widely used by a broad customer base. Since our Sapiens eMerge™ solution and our Sapiens INSIGHT™ suite of solutions are proprietary to us and require special knowledge and training, potential customers may be reluctant to purchase our proprietary solutions and may opt for those of our competitors. Price reductions or declines in demand for our solutions and services, whether as a result of competition, technological change, economic downturn, changes in the level of application development, reengineering or maintenance performed internally by our customers or potential customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 5 Our business involves long-term, large projects, some of which are fixed-price projects that involve uncertainties, such as estimated project costs and profit margins. Our business is characterized by relatively large projects or engagements that can have a significant impact on our total revenue and cost of revenue from quarter to quarter. A high percentage of our expenses, particularly employee compensation, is relatively fixed. Therefore, a variation in the timing of the initiation, progress or completion of projects or engagements, especially at or near the end of any quarter, can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. Some of our solutions are sold as fixed-price projects with delivery requirements spanning more than one year. If our actual cost-to-completion of these projects differs significantly from the estimated costs, we could experience a loss on the related contracts, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flow. Similarly, delays in executing client contracts may affect our revenue and cause our operating results to vary widely. Our solutions are delivered over periods of time ranging from several months to a few years. Payment terms are generally based on periodic payments or on the achievement of milestones. Any delays in payment or in the achievement of milestones may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. The sales cycle for our solutions is long and variable, typically ranging between nine months to eighteen months from initial contact with the potential client to the signing of a contract. Occasionally, sales require substantially more time. This variability may adversely affect our operating results in any particular quarter. Defects in our technology would harm our business and divert resources The quality of our products, enhancements and new versions is critical to our success. Since our software solutions are complex, they may contain errors that can be detected at any point in their life cycle. Any errors or defects in our technology could result in: · delayed or lost revenue; · failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; · claims against us; · diversion of development resources; · increased service, warranty and insurance costs; and · negative publicity resulting in damage to our reputation. While we continually test our products for errors or defects and work with customers to identify and correct them, errors in our technology may be found in the future. Testing for errors or defects is complicated because it is difficult to simulate the breadth of operating systems, user applications and computing environments that our customers use and our software itself is becoming increasingly very complex. The costs we may incur in addressing technology errors or defects could be substantial and could impair our results of operations. 6 Our business involves business-critical solutions which expose us to potential liability claims. Our products focus on organizations’ business-critical applications, including those related to core business solutions for the insurance industry. We also provide re-engineering and re-development services for customers’ specialized needs. Since our customers rely on our software to operate, monitor and improve the performance of their critical software applications, they are sensitive to potential disruptions that may be caused by the use of, or any defects in, our software. As a result, we may be subject to claims for damages related to software errors in the future. Liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. Regardless of whether we prevail, diversion of key employees’ time and attention from our business, incurrence of substantial expenses and potential damage to our reputation might result. While the terms of our sales contracts typically limit our exposure to potential liability claims and we carry errors and omissions insurance against such claims, there can be no assurance that such insurance will continue to be available on acceptable terms, if at all, or that such insurance will provide us with adequate protection against any such claims. A significant liability claim against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Although we apply measures to protect our intellectual property rights, there can be no assurance that the measures that we employ to do so will be successful. In accordance with industry practice, since we have no registered patents, we rely on a combination of contractual provisions and intellectual property law to protect our proprietary technology. We believe that due to the dynamic nature of the computer and software industries, copyright protection is less significant than factors such as the knowledge and experience of our management and personnel, the frequency of product enhancements and the timeliness and quality of our support services. We seek to protect the source code of our products as trade secret information and as unpublished copyright works. We also rely on security and copy protection features in our proprietary software. We distribute our products under software license agreements that grant customers a personal, non-transferable license to use our products and contain terms and conditions prohibiting the unauthorized reproduction or transfer of our products. In addition, we attempt to protect trade secrets and other proprietary information through non-disclosure agreements with employees, consultants and distributors. Although we intend to protect our rights vigorously, there can be no assurance that these measures will be successful. Our failure to protect our rights, or the improper use of our products by others without licensing them from us, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our Sapiens eMerge™ solution is proprietary to us and if we need to hire additional programmers, maintenance and professional services providers to use our Sapiens eMerge™ solution, we would incur training costs and delays due to training. Our Sapiens eMerge™ solution was designed by us and its use requires special knowledge and training. If our current employees leave the Company or if a new project is undertaken by the Company and we need to hire new programmers or personnel to provide maintenance and professional services to our customers, we would have to train the new employees and consultants in Sapiens eMerge™. As a result, we would incur training costs and would have to delay implementation of projects and services until such individuals were adequately trained. In addition, once these individuals are initially trained, they would still be inexperienced with Sapiens eMerge™ and would take additional time to develop efficiency and proficiency with Sapiens eMerge™. As a result of these costs and delays, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations, our financial condition, our cash flows and our relationships with our customers. 7 Our future results could be adversely affected by an impairment of the value of certain intangible assets. Our assets as of December 31, 2010 include, among other things, goodwill amounting to approximately $9.6 million, capitalized software development costs, net, amounting to approximately $13.8 million, customer relationship amounting to approximately $0.7 million, developed technology amounting to approximately $0.8 million, long-term deferred income taxes amounting to approximately $ 1.8 million, and short-term deferred income taxes amounting to approximately $ 1.7 million. The applicable accounting standards require that (a) goodwill be tested for impairment at least annually, and written down when impaired; (b) capitalized software costs be assessed for recoverability on a regular basis, to determine whether the amortization of the asset over its remaining life can be recovered through undiscounted future operating cash flows from the specific software product sold, in accordance with ASC 985 "Software"; and (c) certain identifiable intangible assets such as customer relationship, developed technology and deferred taxes be reviewed for impairment in certain circumstances. If our goodwill, capitalized software development costs, customer relationship, developed technology or deferred tax assets, were deemed to be impaired in whole or in part due to adverse changes in the income we receive from our products, we could be required to reduce or write off such assets, thus having to recognize additional expense in our statements of operations and to reduce our shareholders’ equity. As part of our business strategy, we may make acquisitions which could negatively impact our capital structure, could disrupt our business and, if not successfully integrated into our business, harm our results of operations and financial condition. As part of our growth strategy, we may consider acquiring complementary technologies, products and businesses. If we use capital stock in connection with such acquisitions, our existing shareholders may experience dilution. If we use cash or debt financing, our financial liquidity will be reduced, the holders of our debt would have claims on our assets ahead of holders of our Common Shares and our business operations may be restricted by the terms of any debt. An acquisition may involve nonrecurring charges or amortization of significant amounts of intangible assets, which would adversely affect our ability to achieve and maintain profitability. Attempted acquisitions may divert management, operational and financial resources from the conduct of our core business, and we may not complete any attempted acquisition. Other risks commonly encountered with acquisitions include the effect of the acquisition on our financial and strategic position and reputation, the failure of the acquired business to further our strategies, the inability to successfully integrate or commercialize acquired technologies and achieve expected synergies or economies of scale on a timely basis, and the potential impairment of acquired assets. Further, we may not be able to retain the key employees that may be necessary to operate the business we acquire, and, we may not be able to timely attract new skilled employees and management to replace them. From time to time, we may also need to acquire complementary technologies, whether to execute our strategies or in order to comply with customer needs. There are no assurances that we will be able to acquire or successfully integrate an acquired company, business or technology, or successfully leverage such complementary technology in the market. 8 We may also compete with others to acquire companies, and such competition may result in decreased availability of, or increased prices for, suitable acquisition candidates. In addition, for possible commercial and economic considerations, we may not be able to consummate acquisitions that we have identified as crucial to the implementation of our strategy. We may not be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, including those of competition authorities and foreign investment authorities, in countries where we seek to consummate acquisitions. For those and other reasons, we may ultimately fail to consummate an acquisition, even if we announce that we plan to acquire a company. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we acquired Harcase Software Limited ("Harcase"). While we have began to integrate Harcase's operations, technology and employees into our business, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate Harcase into our business and generate synergies or operational improvements from the Harcase acquisition. The economic slowdown adversely affected, and the effects of the economic slowdown and any future economic slowdown may adversely affect, our results and financial condition. The worldwide financial and credit market crisis which began in 2008 led to an economic slowdown worldwide. This has impacted the insurance and financial sectors in which most of our customers operate. The slowdown resulted in a reduction in demand in some or all of our major markets and downward pressure on pricing in many markets, which adversely affected our business, results of operations and financial condition in the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009 and significant changes and volatility in the equity, credit and foreign exchange markets, and in the competitive landscape, make it increasingly difficult for us to predict our revenues and earnings into the future. Risks Relating to Our International Operations, Particularly in Israel Our international operations involve inherent risks, such as foreign currency fluctuations and compliance with various regulatory and tax regimes. Most of our revenues are derived from international operations that are conducted in local currencies as well as dollars. Changes in the value of such local currencies or the dollar relative to such local currencies may affect our financial position and results of operations. Gains and losses on translations to dollars of assets and liabilities may contribute to fluctuations in our financial position and results of operations. In certain locations, we engage in currency-hedging transactions intended to reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our financial position and results of operations. However, there can be no assurance that any such hedging transaction will materially reduce the effect of fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates on such results. In addition, if for any reason exchange or price controls or other restrictions on the conversion of foreign currencies were imposed, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. 9 Other potential risks that may impact our international business activities include longer accounts receivable payment cycles, the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and changes in regulatory requirements, although such factors have not had a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations to date. Unpredictable catastrophic events, including the earthquake and accompanying tsunami which struck Japan on March 11, 2011, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The occurrence of catastrophic events such as hurricanes, tropical storms, earthquakes, tsunamis, floods and other catastrophes could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A flood, earthquake, tsunami or other disaster, condition or event that adversely affects the business climate in any of our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, the earthquake and accompanying tsunami that struck the north-east of Japan during March 2011 caused significant damage in the surrounding region. The disruption of the businesses of any of our customers or a negative impact on our customers' businesses resulting from these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We face currency exchange risks, as changes in exchange rates between the US dollar and other currencies, especially the NIS, may negatively impact our costs. Exchange rate fluctuations between the US dollar and other currencies which we and our subsidiaries use, especially the NIS, may negatively affect our earnings. A significant portion of our expenses, including research and development, personnel and facilities-related expenses, are incurred in Israel, in NIS. On March 1, 2011, the exchange rate between the NIS and the US dollar was NIS 3.623 per 1 US dollar. Consequently, we are exposed to the risk of appreciation of the NIS in relation to the US dollar. This appreciation would cause, an increase in our expenses as recorded in our US dollar denominated financial statements even if the expenses denominated in local currencies remains unchanged. Accordingly, our level of revenues and profits may be adversely affected by exchange rate fluctuations. The depreciation of the US dollar in relation to the NIS in 2010 was not significant, and the exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and other currencies which we and our subsidiaries use, did not cause any significant change in our foreign currency translation differences. We cannot predict any future trends in the US dollar/ NIS exchange rate or the US dollar/GBP exchange rate. We cannot assure you that we will not be materially affected in the future by currency exchange rate fluctuations. See Item 11- "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk - Foreign Currency Risk." 10 Conducting business in Israel entails certain inherent risks that could harm our business. Our corporate headquarters and research and development facilities are located in the State of Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. We could be adversely affected by any major hostilities involving Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. In addition, several countries still restrict business with Israel and with companies doing business in Israel. These political, economic and military conditions in Israel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth. Since September 2000, there has been a marked increase in violence, civil unrest and hostility, including armed clashes, between the State of Israel and the Palestinians, and acts of terror have been committed inside Israel and against Israeli targets in the West Bank and Gaza. These developments have adversely affected the regional peace process, placed the Israeli economy under significant stress, and have negatively influenced Israel’s relationship with several Arab countries. The establishment in 2006 of a government in the Palestinian Authority by representatives of the Hamas militant group resulted in an escalation in violence among Israel, the Palestinian Authority and other groups and has created additional unrest and uncertainty in the region. Further, during the summer of 2006, Israel was engaged in a war with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group, which involved rockets being fired from Lebanon up to 50 miles into Israel and disrupted most day-to-day civilian activity in northern Israel. In January 2009, Israel engaged in a military action against Hamas in Gaza to prevent continued rocket attacks against Israel. These developments have further strained relations between Israel and the Palestinians. Any future armed conflict, political instability or violence in the region, including acts of terrorism, may have a negative effect on our business condition, harm our results of operations and adversely affect our share price. Some of our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform military reserve duty, currently consisting of approximately 30 days of service annually (or more for reserves officers or citizens with certain occupations). Additionally, they are subject to being called to active duty at any time upon the outbreak of hostilities. While we have operated effectively under these requirements since the establishment of Sapiens, no assessment can be made as to the full impact of such requirements on our business or work force and no prediction can be made as to the effect on us of any expansion of such obligations. Risks Related to an Investment in our Common Shares Our Common Shares are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our Common Shares are traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market and the TASE. Trading in our Common Shares on these markets is in different currencies (US dollars on the NASDAQ Capital Market and NIS on the TASE), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the U.S. and Israel). The trading prices of our Common Shares on these two markets may differ due to these and other factors. Any decrease in the trading price of our Common Shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our Common Shares on the other market. 11 There is very little trading volume for our Common Shares, which causes the stock price to be volatile and which may lead to losses by investors. There is very little trading volume for our Common Shares, both on the NASDAQ Capital Market and the TASE. As a result, our Common Shares have experienced significant market price volatility in the past and may experience significant market price and volume fluctuations in the future, in response to factors such as announcements of developments related to our business, announcements by competitors, quarterly fluctuations in our financial results and general conditions in the industry in which we compete. Our quarterly results may be impacted by multiple short-term factors, thereby causing variability in such results and enhanced volatility in the market price of our Common Shares. Our revenue and operating results could vary widely from quarter to quarter as a result of several different factors, such as the budgeting and purchasing practices of our customers, the length of our customers' product evaluation process, the timing of our customers’ system conversions, the timing and cost of new product introductions and product enhancements, and the timing of any acquisitions and associated costs. Employee hiring and the rate of utilization of such employees may also affect our revenues and results of operations. Such variation in results from quarter to quarter could cause enhanced volatility in the market price of our Common Shares. Formula Systems (1985) Ltd. and its parent company, Asseco, may exercise control and influence corporate actions in a manner that potentially conflicts with our other public shareholders and our election of “controlled company” status as a basis for exempting ourselves from certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements may remove certain potential checks on such shareholders’ control of our company. Formula Systems (1985) Ltd. (“Formula”), whose ADRs trade on NASDAQ (under the trading symbol: FORTY) and whose shares trade on the TASE (under the trading symbol: FORT), directly owned (as of December 31, 2010) 15,801,723, or approximately 72%, of our currently outstanding Common Shares. In November 2010, Asseco Poland SA, (Warsaw Stock Exchange: ACP) ("Asseco"), purchased 51.7% of Formula's outstanding share capital from Emblaze Ltd ("Emblaze"). As a result, Asseco has a controlling influence over us. 12 Asseco, through Formula, is and may continue to be in a position to exercise control over most matters requiring shareholder approval. Formula may use its share ownership or representation on our Board of Directors to substantially influence corporate actions that conflict with the interests of our other public shareholders including, without limitation, changing the size and composition of our Board of Directors and committees of our Board of Directors, causing the issuance of further securities, amending our governing documents or otherwise controlling the outcome of shareholder votes. Furthermore, our exemption from certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements as a “controlled company” of which greater than 50% of the voting power is held by a group (i.e., Asseco and Formula) and the determination to opt out of these NASDAQ corporate governance requirements as permitted for a foreign private issuer, may have the effect of removing potential checks on Asseco’s and Formula’s control over our company. As a result of such election, we are not required to comply with the following NASDAQ Listing Rule requirements: maintenance of a majority of independent directors on our board of directors; selection of director nominees by a wholly independent nominating committee of the board or a majority of our independent directors; adoption of a written charter or board resolution addressing the director nominations process; determination of our executive officers’ compensation by an independent compensation committee or a majority of our independent directors; and shareholder approval for certain matters. Our exemption from these requirements could strengthen Asseco’s and Formula’s control over our board of directors and management. See Item 6.C below “Board Practices— NASDAQ Exemptions for a Controlled Company” and “Board Practices— NASDAQ Opt-Out for a Foreign Private Issuer”. Furthermore, actions by Formula with respect to the disposition of the Common Shares it beneficially owns, or the perception that such actions may occur, may adversely affect the trading price of our Common Shares. If we are classified as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. Generally, if for any taxable year, after applying certain look-through rules, 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of the value of our assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Passive income for this purpose generally includes, among other things, certain dividends, interest, royalties, rental and gains from commodities and securities transactions and from the sale or exchange of property that gives rise to passive income. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to our shareholders who are U.S. taxpayers, including having gain realized on the sale of our Common Shares being treated as ordinary income rather than capital gain income, and could result in punitive interest charges being applied to such sales proceeds. Rules similar to those applicable to dispositions apply to amounts treated as “excess distributions.” We believe we were not a PFIC in 2010 just as we believe we were not a PFIC for at least the past 5 years. We currently expect that we will not be a PFIC in 2011. However, PFIC status is determined as of the end of the taxable year and is dependent on a number of factors. Therefore, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC for the year ending December 31, 2011 or in a future taxable year. U.S. shareholders should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our Common Shares. For a discussion of how we might be characterized as a PFIC and related tax consequences, please see Item 10.E, “Additional Information – Taxation - U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations - Tax Consequences if We Are a Passive Foreign Investment Company 13 