Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business We face substantial competition in the investment management business. All aspects of our business are subject to substantial competition. This includes competition for continued access to brokerage firms’ retail distribution systems and “wrap-fee” managed account programs. The loss of such access could result in a loss of assets under management, which could adversely affect our revenues. In addition, in part as a result of the substantial competition in the asset management industry, there has been a trend toward lower fees in some segments of the asset management business. In order for us to maintain our fee structure in a competitive environment, we must be able to provide clients with investment returns and service that will encourage them to be willing to pay such fees. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current fee structure or that we will be able to develop new products that the market or our registered representatives find attractive. Fee reductions on existing or future business could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. Our business relies on third-party distribution programs. Our ability to distribute our products is highly dependent on access to the client base of financial advisors that also offer competing investment products. Registered representatives who recommend our products may reduce or eliminate their involvement in marketing our products at any time, or may elect to emphasize the investment products of competing sponsors, or the proprietary products of their own firms. In addition, registered representatives may receive compensation incentives to sell their firm’s investment products or may choose to recommend to their customers investment products sponsored by firms other than the Company. In 12 Table of Contents addition, a registered representative’s ability to distribute our mutual funds is subject to the continuation of a selling agreement between the firm with which the representative is affiliated and us. We cannot be sure that we will continue to gain access to these financial advisors. The inability to have this access could have a material adverse effect on our business. Significant and sustained declines in securities markets or poor investment performance may adversely affect our assets under management and our future offerings. Securities markets are inherently volatile and may be impacted by factors beyond our control, including such factors as global, national and local political and economic conditions, inflation, investor preferences and legal and regulatory changes. Significant and sustained declines in securities markets may reduce our assets under management and sales of our products, and, as a result, adversely affect our revenues. In addition, our investment performance is one of the primary factors associated with the success of our business. Poor investment performance by our managers for a sustained period could adversely affect our level of assets under management and associated revenues. Moreover, sustained periods of poor investment performance and increased redemptions by existing clients may eliminate performance fees and diminish our ability to sell our products and attract new investors. For example, during the past few years, growth equities generally have performed poorly, negatively impacting the performance of Rittenhouse. From December 31, 2005 to December 31, 2006, assets under management at Rittenhouse have fallen from $5.9 billion to $3.4 billion. Fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our assets under management. A substantial portion of our assets under management are invested in fixed-income securities. Increases in interest rates from their present levels may adversely affect the values of these assets. In addition, increases in interest rates may have a magnified adverse effect on our leveraged closed-end funds. Moreover, fluctuations in interest rates may have a significant impact on securities markets, which may adversely affect our overall assets under management. A significant and sustained decline in equity markets would reduce our assets under management and our fee revenues. As of December 31, 2006, 52% of our assets under management were equity assets. A significant and sustained decline in the equity markets would likely significantly reduce our assets under management. Since our fee revenue is based upon assets under management, a significant decline in such assets would result in a significant reduction in revenue. Our business is dependent upon our retaining our key personnel. Our executive officers, investment professionals and senior relationship personnel are important elements of the success of our business. The market for qualified personnel to fill these roles is extremely competitive. We anticipate that we will need to recruit and retain qualified investment and other professionals. However, we may not be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain portfolio managers or marketing personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business is subject to extensive regulation, and compliance failures and changes in regulation could adversely affect us. Our investment advisory business is subject to client guidelines and contractual and other requirements. A failure to adhere to these guidelines or satisfy these requirements could result in client withdrawals and could result in losses which could be recovered by the client from us in certain circumstances. Our businesses are also subject to extensive regulation, including by the SEC and the NASD. Our failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or rules of self-regulatory organizations could cause regulatory authorities to institute proceedings against us or our subsidiaries and could result in the imposition of sanctions ranging from censure and fines to termination of an investment adviser or broker-dealer’s registration and otherwise prohibiting an investment adviser from acting as an investment adviser. Changes in laws, regulations, rules of 13 Table of Contents self-regulatory organizations or in governmental policies, and unforeseen developments in litigation targeting the securities industry generally or us, could have a material adverse effect on us. The impact of future accounting pronouncements could also have a material adverse affect upon us. Our revenues will decrease if our investment advisory contracts are terminated. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from investment advisory agreements. Our investment advisory agreements with registered fund clients are approved initially by the sole fund shareholder and their continuance must be approved annually by the trustees of the respective funds, including a majority of the trustees who are not “interested persons” of our relevant advisory subsidiary or the fund, as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, to which we refer as the “Investment Company Act”. Amendments to these agreements typically must be approved by funds’ boards of trustees and, if material, by the shareholders. Each agreement may be terminated without penalty by either party upon 60 days’ written notice. In addition, under the Investment Company Act, each of the investment advisory agreements of our advisory subsidiaries with registered fund clients would terminate automatically upon its assignment (as defined in the Investment Company Act). Our investment advisory agreements with advisory clients, other than registered fund clients, generally provide that they can be terminated without penalty upon written notice by either party within any specified period. Under the provisions of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, to which we refer as the “Investment Advisers Act”, those investment advisory agreements may not be assigned without the client’s consent. The term “assignment” is broadly defined under the Investment Company Act and the Investment Advisers Act to include any direct or indirect transfer of the contract or of a controlling block of the adviser’s stock by a security holder. The termination of all or a portion of the investment advisory agreements, for any reason, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Failure to comply with client contractual requirements and/or guidelines could have negative consequences which might cause our earnings or stock price to decline. When clients retain us to manage assets or provide products or services on their behalf, they specify guidelines or contractual requirements that we are required to observe in the provision of our services. A failure to comply with these guidelines or contractual requirements could result in damage to our reputation or to the client seeking to recover losses from us, reducing assets under management, or terminating its contract with us, any of which could cause our earnings or stock price to decline. We may continue to acquire other companies, and the expected benefits of such acquisitions may not materialize. The acquisition of complementary businesses and the development of strategic alliances have been and may continue to be active parts of our overall business strategy. Services, key personnel or businesses of acquired companies may not be effectively incorporated into our business or service offerings and our alliances may not be successful. Moreover, we may be unable to retain the clients or key employees of the companies we acquire, or we may be unable to achieve expected cost reductions or economies of scale. Our increased indebtedness could increase the costs of our borrowing and make it more difficult to raise additional capital in the future. In 2005, we issued $550 million of senior unsecured notes, and incurred $150 million in outstanding borrowings under our $400 million credit facility, principally to refinance existing debt and to finance the repurchase of $600 million of our common stock from STA. See “Item 1. “Business — Company History and Acquisitions.” These obligations resulted in a significant increase in leverage compared to our capital structure prior to their incurrence, which will increase our borrowing costs and could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 14 Table of Contents 