Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Significant and sustained declines in securities markets, such as the declines occurring beginning in 2008 into early 2009, have and may continue to adversely affect our assets under management and financial results. Poor investment performance may also adversely affect our assets under management and our future offerings. A large portion of our revenues is derived from investment advisory contracts with clients. Under these contracts, the investment advisory fees we receive are typically based on the market value of assets under management. Significant and sustained declines in securities markets and/or the value of the securities managed may reduce our assets under management and sales of our products, and, as a result, adversely affect our revenues and financial results. Beginning in 2008, accelerating in the fourth quarter of 2008, and continuing into 2009, securities markets were characterized by substantially increased volatility and experienced significant overall declines. Primarily as a result of market depreciation, our assets under management decreased from $164.3 billion at December 31, 2007 to $115.3 billion at March 31, 2009. In addition, our investment performance is one of the primary factors associated with the success of our business. Poor investment performance by our managers for a sustained period could adversely affect our level of assets under management and associated revenues. Moreover, some of our investment advisory contracts provide for performance fees based on investment performance. Sustained periods of poor investment performance and increased redemptions by existing clients may reduce or eliminate performance fees that we are able to earn under our investment advisory contracts and diminish our ability to sell our other investment management products and attract new investors. Our assets under management and investment products are impacted by many factors beyond our control, including the following: General fluctuations in equity markets and dealings in equity markets. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 44% of our assets under management were equity assets. As noted above, recently there have been substantial fluctuations in price levels in securities markets, including equity markets. These fluctuations can occur on a daily basis and over longer periods as a result of a variety of factors, including national and international economic and political events, broad trends in business and finance, and interest rate movements. Reduced equity market prices generally may result in lower levels of assets under management and the loss of, or reduction in, incentive and performance fees, each of which will result in reduced revenues. Periods of reduced market prices may adversely affect our profitability if we do not reduce our fixed costs. Changes in interest rates and defaults. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 56% of our assets under management were fixed income securities. During 2008, particularly in the fourth quarter of 2008, there were several disruptions in the credit markets and periods of illiquidity. This resulted in a decline in the value of the fixed income securities that we manage reducing our assets under management. Although fixed income securities markets stabilized in 2009, these conditions could recur. Increases in interest rates from their present levels may also adversely affect the values of fixed income securities. Further, the value of the assets may decline as a result of an issuer’s actual or perceived creditworthiness or an issuer’s ability to meet its obligations. In addition, increases in interest rates may have a magnified adverse effect on our leveraged closed-end funds. Moreover, fluctuations in interest rates may have a significant impact on securities markets, which may adversely affect our overall assets under management. Redemptions and other withdrawals. Investors (in response to adverse market conditions, inconsistent investment performance, changing credit qualities of assets or financial guarantees thereof, the pursuit of other investment opportunities or otherwise) may reduce their investments in our specific investment products or in the market segments in which our investment products are concentrated. 16 Table of Contents Political and general economic risks. The investment products managed by us may invest significant funds in international markets that are subject to risk of loss from political or diplomatic developments, government policies, civil unrest, currency fluctuations and changes in legislation related to foreign ownership. International markets, particularly emerging markets, are often smaller, may not have the liquidity of established markets, may lack established regulations and may experience significantly more volatility than established markets. Reduction in attractive investments. Fluctuations in securities markets may adversely affect the ability of our managers to find appropriate investments. If any of our investment managers is not able to find sufficient appropriate investments for new client assets in a timely manner, the investment manager’s investment performance could be adversely affected. The failure of the auctions for Auction Rate Preferred Stock that began in February 2008 could have an adverse effect on our business. We sponsor 123 closed-end funds of which 101 were leveraged through the issuance of an auction-rate preferred stock (“ARPS”). Our leveraged closed-end funds had $15.4 billion of ARPS outstanding as of December 31, 2007. This leverage seeks to enhance income for common shareholders of the fund in accordance with the funds’ investment objectives and policies. Beginning on February 12, 2008, the $342 billion auction-rate securities market, including approximately $65 billion of ARPS issued by closed-end funds, began to experience widespread auction failures. Since February 14, 2008, virtually all auctions for ARPS issued by closed-end funds, and all ARPS of our funds, have failed. As a result of the auction failures, investors in ARPS of our funds have been unable to sell their ARPS in these auctions. Although our funds have refinanced $7.3 billion of their outstanding ARPS as of February 28, 2010, $8.0 billion remained outstanding as of such date. All $8.0 billion of these ARPS were issued by our municipal funds and pay tax-exempt dividends which limits the refinancing options available for these ARPS. Although we continue to make progress refinancing ARPS, our inability to arrange for the refinancing of the remaining outstanding ARPS of our funds could damage our relationships with the third party distributors through which we distribute the closed-end funds we sponsor and other investment products. It could also damage our reputation in the marketplace making it more difficult for us to distribute new closed-end funds and other investment products sponsored by us which could result in an adverse affect on our business. As discussed above in Item 1. “Business – Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings,” the staff of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) has notified our broker dealer subsidiary, Nuveen Investments, LLC, that it has made a preliminary determination to recommend that a disciplinary action be brought against the broker dealer in connection with FINRA’s inquiry into the marketing and distribution of our funds’ ARPS. This FINRA Enforcement Inquiry or action by other regulatory authorities could result in fines or other action which could adversely affect us. We face substantial competition in the investment management business. The asset management industry in which we are engaged is extremely competitive, and we face substantial competition in all aspects of our business. We compete with numerous international and domestic asset management firms and broker-dealers, mutual fund companies, hedge funds, commercial banks, insurance companies and other investment companies and financial institutions. Many of these organizations offer products and services that are similar to, or compete with, those offered by us, and some have substantially more personnel and greater financial resources and/or assets under management than we do. Some of our competitors have proprietary products and distribution channels that may make it more difficult for us to compete with them. A sizable number of new asset management firms and mutual funds have been established in the last ten years, increasing our competition. In addition, the asset management industry has experienced consolidation as numerous asset management firms have either been acquired by other financial services firms or have ceased operations. In many cases, this has resulted in firms having greater financial resources than us. In addition, a number of heavily capitalized companies, including commercial banks and foreign entities, have made investments in and acquired asset management firms. Access to brokerage firms’ retail distribution systems, “wrap fee” retail managed account programs, and mutual fund and other distribution channels has also 17 Table of Contents become increasingly competitive. Despite the recent problems of certain of these competitors, all of these factors could make it more difficult for us to compete and no assurance can be given that we will be successful in competing and growing or maintaining our assets under management and business. If clients and potential clients decide to use the services of competitors, it could reduce our revenues and growth rate, and if our revenues decrease without a commensurate reduction in our expenses, our net income will be reduced. In addition, in part as a result of the substantial competition in the asset management industry, there has been a trend toward lower fees in some segments of the asset management business. In order for us to maintain our fee structure in a competitive environment, we must be able to provide clients with investment returns and service that will encourage them to be willing to pay such fees. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current fee structure or provide our clients with attractive investment returns, or that we will be able to develop new products that are desirable to the market or our registered representatives. Fee reductions on existing or future business could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. Our business relies on third-party distributors who may choose not to sell or recommend our products or increase the costs of distribution. Our ability to distribute our products is highly dependent on access to the client base of financial advisors that also offer competing investment products. Registered representatives who recommend our products may reduce or eliminate their involvement in marketing our products at any time, or may elect to emphasize the investment products of competing sponsors, or the proprietary products of their own firms. In addition, registered representatives may receive compensation incentives to sell their firm’s investment products or may choose to recommend to their customers investment products sponsored by firms other than us. Further, expenses associated with maintaining access to third-party distribution programs may increase in the future as a result of efforts by distribution firms to defray a portion of their costs of internal customer account related services in connection with their customers’ investments in our products. Finally, a registered representative’s ability to distribute our mutual funds is subject to the continuation of a selling agreement between the firm with which the representative is affiliated and us. We cannot be sure that we will continue to gain access to these financial advisors. The inability to have this access could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, certain financial institutions through which we distribute our products have experienced difficulties resulting from the economic downturn beginning in 2008. Some of these distributors have been acquired and others have obtained funding from the United States government. The resulting disruptions within these third party distributors could adversely impact our business. The firms through which we distribute closed-end funds charge structuring fees in connection with bringing closed-end funds to market. These fees have significantly increased our costs for new closed-end funds, thereby reducing our margins on these products. If our asset mix changes, our revenues and operating margins could be reduced. Our assets under management can generate different revenues per dollar of assets under management based on factors such as the type of asset managed by us (equity assets generally produce greater revenues than fixed income assets), the type of client (institutional clients generally pay higher fees than other clients), the type of asset management product or service provided and the fee schedule of the asset manager providing the service. A shift in the mix of our assets under management from higher revenue-generating assets to lower revenue-generating assets may result in a decrease in our revenues even if our aggregate level of assets under management remains unchanged or increases. Our business is dependent upon our retaining our key personnel, the loss of whom would harm our ability to operate efficiently. Our executive officers, investment professionals and senior relationship personnel are important to the success of our business. The market for qualified personnel to fill these roles is extremely competitive. We anticipate that 18 Table of Contents we will need to recruit and retain qualified investment and other professionals. However, we may not be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. Due to the competitive market for these professionals and the success of some of our personnel, our costs associated with providing compensation incentives necessary to attract and retain key personnel are significant and will likely increase over time. We anticipate needing to offer additional incentive programs to retain our key personnel. Moreover, since certain of our key personnel contribute significantly to our revenues and net income, the loss of even a small number of key personnel could have a disproportionate impact on our business. From time to time we may work with key employees to revise equity-based incentives and other employment-related terms to reflect current circumstances. In addition, since the investment track record of many of our products and services may be attributed to a small number of employees, the departure of one or more of these employees could cause the business to lose client accounts or managed assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to extensive regulation, and compliance failures and changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect us. Our business is also subject to extensive regulation, including by the SEC and FINRA. Our failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or rules of self-regulatory organizations could cause regulatory authorities to institute proceedings against us or our subsidiaries and could result in the imposition of sanctions ranging from censure and fines to termination of an investment advisor or broker-dealer’s registration and otherwise prohibiting an investment advisor from acting as an investment advisor. Changes in laws, regulations, rules of self-regulatory organizations or in governmental policies, and unforeseen developments in litigation targeting the securities industry generally or us, could have a material adverse effect on us. The impact of future accounting pronouncements could also have a material adverse effect upon us. In addition, changes in regulations or industry-wide or specifically targeted regulatory or court decisions may require us to reduce our fee levels, or restructure the fees we charge. For example, distribution fees paid to mutual fund distributors in accordance with SEC Rule 12b-1 are a significant element of revenues for a number of the mutual funds that we manage. There have been suggestions from regulatory agencies and other industry participants that Rule 12b-1 distribution fees in the mutual fund industry should be reconsidered and, potentially, reduced or eliminated. Any industry-wide reduction or restructuring of Rule 12b-1 distribution fees could have an adverse effect on our revenues and net income. Our investment advisor subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as investment advisors under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Advisers Act”). The Investment Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on registered investment advisors, including fiduciary, recordkeeping, operational and disclosure obligations. In light of recent allegations of fraud against certain other investment advisors, we anticipate substantially increased regulation of investment advisors. Each of our closed-end funds and open-end funds is registered with the SEC under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”), and the shares of each closed-end fund and open-end fund are registered with the SEC under the Securities Act. Each national open-end fund is qualified for sale (or not required to be so qualified) in all states in the United States and the District of Columbia. Each single-state open-end fund is qualified for sale (or not required to be so qualified) in the state for which it is named and other designated states. Our subsidiary, Nuveen Investments, LLC, is registered as a broker-dealer under the Exchange Act and is subject to regulation by the SEC, FINRA and federal and state agencies. Our broker-dealer subsidiary is subject to the SEC’s net capital rules and certain state securities laws designed to enforce minimum standards regarding the general financial condition and liquidity of a broker-dealer. Under certain circumstances, these rules would limit our ability to make withdrawals of capital and receive dividends from our broker-dealer subsidiary. The securities industry is one of the most highly regulated in the United States, and failure to comply with the related laws and regulations can result in revocation of broker-dealer licenses, the imposition of censures or fines and the suspension or expulsion from the securities business of a firm, its officers or employees. 19 Table of Contents Our investment management subsidiaries are subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”) and to regulations promulgated thereunder, insofar as they act as a “fiduciary” under ERISA with respect to benefit plan clients. ERISA and applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code impose duties on persons who are fiduciaries under ERISA, prohibit specified transactions involving ERISA plan clients and provide monetary penalties for violations of these prohibitions. The failure of any of our subsidiaries to comply with these requirements could result in significant penalties that could reduce our net income. Changes in the status of tax deferred retirement plan investments and tax-free municipal bonds, the capital gains and corporate dividend tax rates, and other individual and corporate tax rates and regulations could affect investor behavior and cause investors to view certain investment offerings less favorably, thereby decreasing our assets under management. Our business involves risk of being engaged in litigation that could increase our expenses and reduce our net income. There has been an increased incidence of litigation and regulatory investigations in the asset management industry in recent years, including customer claims as well as class action suits seeking substantial damages. In addition, we, along with other industry participants, are subject to risks related to litigation, settlements and regulatory investigations arising from market events such as the ARPS auction failures described above. We could become involved in such litigation or the subject of such a regulatory investigation, such as the FINRA ARPS enforcement inquiry described above, which could adversely affect us. Our revenues will decrease if our investment advisory contracts are terminated. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from investment advisory agreements. Our investment advisory agreements with registered fund clients must be approved annually by the trustees of the respective funds, including a majority of the trustees who are not “interested persons” of our relevant advisory subsidiary or the fund, as defined in the Investment Company Act. Amendments to these agreements typically must be approved by the funds’ boards of trustees and, if material, by its shareholders. Each agreement may be terminated without penalty by either party upon 60 days’ written notice. Our investment advisory agreements with advisory clients, other than registered fund clients, also generally provide that they can be terminated without penalty upon 60 days’ written notice. Any adverse public disclosure, our failure to follow client guidelines or any other matters could harm our reputation and have an adverse effect on us. Maintaining the trust and confidence of clients and other market participants, and the resulting good reputation, is important to our business. Our reputation is vulnerable to many threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and difficult and costly to remediate. Regulatory inquiries, employee misconduct and rumors, among other things, can substantially damage our reputation, even if they are baseless or satisfactorily addressed. Any damage to our reputation could impede our ability to attract and retain clients and key personnel, and lead to a reduction in the amount of our assets under management, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. When clients retain us to manage assets or provide products or services on their behalf, they specify guidelines or contractual requirements that we are required to observe in the provision of our services. In addition, we are required to abide by certain conflict of interest policies and regulations. A failure to comply with these guidelines, contractual requirements, policies and regulations could result in damage to our reputation or to the client seeking to recover losses from us, reducing assets under management, or terminating its contract with us, any of which could have an adverse impact on our business. 20 Table of Contents We may continue to acquire other companies, and the expected benefits of such acquisitions may not materialize. The acquisition of complementary businesses has been and may continue to be an active part of our overall business strategy. There can be no assurance that we will find suitable candidates for strategic transactions at acceptable prices, have sufficient capital resources to accomplish our strategy, or be successful in entering into agreements for desired transactions. Acquisitions also pose the risk that any business we acquire may lose customers or employees or could underperform relative to expectations. We could also experience financial or other setbacks if transactions encounter unanticipated problems, including problems related to execution or integration. Finally, services, key personnel or businesses of acquired companies may not be effectively integrated into our business or be successful. We may explore strategic transactions such as a potential merger or a sale of some or all of our assets. We may not be able to complete any such strategic transactions or the expected benefits of such strategic transactions may not materialize, which may prevent us from implementing strategies to grow our business. We may explore potential strategic transactions such as a merger or a sale of some or all of our assets. We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to complete such a transaction on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Successful completion of any strategic transaction we identify depends on a number of factors that are not entirely within our control, including our ability to negotiate acceptable terms, conclude satisfactory agreements and obtain all necessary regulatory approvals and investment advisory agreement consents. In addition, we may need to finance any strategic transaction that we identify, and may not be able to obtain the necessary financing on satisfactory terms and within the timeframe that would permit a transaction to proceed. We could experience adverse accounting and financial consequences, such as the need to make large provisions against the acquired assets or to write down the acquired assets. We might also experience a dilutive effect on our earnings. In addition, depending on how any such transaction is structured, there may be an adverse impact on our capital structure. We may incur significant costs arising from our efforts to engage in strategic transactions, and such costs may exceed the returns that we realize from a given transaction. Moreover, these expenditures may not result in the successful completion of a transaction. Our business is subject to numerous operational risks, any of which could disrupt our ability to function effectively. We must be able to consistently and reliably obtain securities pricing information, process client and investor transactions and provide reports and other customer service to our clients and investors. Any failure to keep current and accurate books and records can render us liable to disciplinary action by governmental and self-regulatory authorities, as well as to claims by our clients. If any of our financial, portfolio accounting or other data processing systems do not operate properly or are disabled or if there are other shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people or systems, we could suffer an impairment to our liquidity, a financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory problems or damage to our reputation. These systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, including a disruption of electrical or communications services or our inability to occupy one or more of our buildings. In addition, our operations are dependent upon information from, and communications with, third parties, and operational problems at third parties may adversely affect our ability to carry on our business. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code, and other events that have a security impact. If one or more of such events occur, it potentially could jeopardize our or our clients’ or counterparties’ confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients’, our counterparties’ or third parties’ operations. We may be required to spend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures 21 Table of Contents or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against fully or not fully covered through any insurance that we maintain. A disaster or a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our asset managers, or an event disrupting the ability of our employees to perform their job functions, including terrorist attacks or a disruption involving electrical communications, transportation or other services used by us or third parties with whom we conduct business, directly affecting any of our operations could have a material adverse impact on our ability to continue to operate our business without interruption. Although we have disaster recovery programs in place, there can be no assurance that these will be sufficient to mitigate the harm that may result from such a disaster or disruption. In addition, insurance and other safeguards might only partially reimburse us for our losses. We are highly leveraged and our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition. We are highly leveraged and have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which requires significant interest and principal payments. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $4.1 billion in aggregate principal amount of indebtedness, which included borrowings of the full $250 million available under the revolving credit facility that is part of our senior secured credit facilities. Our and our subsidiaries’ substantial amount of indebtedness could have important consequences in operating our business, including: • continuing to require us and certain of our subsidiaries to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for operations and any future business opportunities; • limiting flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industry in which we operate; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness; • increasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic or industry conditions; • making us and our subsidiaries more vulnerable to increases in interest rates, as borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities are at variable rates; and • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements and increasing our cost of borrowing. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that could limit our flexibility in operating our business. The operating and financial covenants and restrictions in our senior secured credit facilities and the documentation governing our other debt may adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. The agreements governing our indebtedness restrict, subject to certain exceptions, our and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness or guarantees; • pay dividends or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make certain other restricted payments or redeem or repurchase capital stock; • make certain investments; • create liens on our or our subsidiary guarantors’ assets; • sell assets and subsidiary stock; 22 Table of Contents • enter into transactions with affiliates; • alter the business that we conduct; • designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; and • enter into mergers, consolidations and sales of substantially all our assets. Our and our subsidiaries’ ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control. If we fail to make any required payment under our senior secured credit facilities or to comply with any of the financial and operating covenants in our senior secured credit facilities, we will be in default. In the event of any default under our senior secured credit facilities, the applicable lenders could elect to terminate borrowing commitments and declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other fees, to be due and payable, to require us to apply all available cash to repay these borrowings or to prevent us from making or permitting subsidiaries to make distributions or dividends, the proceeds of which are used by us to make other debt service payments. If any of our creditors accelerate the maturity of their indebtedness, we may not have sufficient assets to satisfy our obligations under our senior credit facilities or our other indebtedness. Our ability to generate the significant amount of cash needed to service our debt and financial obligations depends on many factors beyond our control, including current economic conditions and conditions in the securities markets. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. Our inability to pay our debts would require us to pursue one or more alternative strategies, such as selling assets, refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness or selling equity capital. However, we cannot assure you that any alternative strategies will be feasible at the time or provide adequate funds to allow us to pay our debts as they come due and fund our other liquidity needs. Certain of our indebtedness restricts our ability to sell assets and use the proceeds from such sales. Additionally, we may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we cannot service our indebtedness, it could impede the implementation of our business strategy or prevent us from entering into transactions that would otherwise benefit our business. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to our debt, which has scheduled maturities beginning in November 2013, will depend on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic, financial, competitive, legislative, legal and regulatory factors and to the following financial and business factors, some of which may be beyond our control: • continuing overall declines in securities markets; • poor investment performance by our investment managers; • decreased demand for our products; • reductions in fees that we and our competitors charge for our products; • our inability to compete with other investment managers; • regulatory developments; • failure to successfully integrate acquisitions; and • delays in implementing our business strategy. 23 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 