Risk Factors. We operate globally in a dynamic and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. The following section lists some, but not all, of those risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Risks Relating to Our Business, Our Industry and our Financing Activities The current worldwide economic and financial situation may have a material adverse effect on our results. Many of the world’s largest economies and financial institutions are currently experiencing a reduction in economic activity, a decline in asset prices, liquidity problems and limited availability of credit. This has impacted the insurance and financial sectors in which in excess of 50% of our customers operate. Such factors may result in a reduction in demand in some or all of our major markets and downward pressure on pricing in many markets, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The economic and financial situation may negatively impact our customers, which in turn would negatively impact our ability to maintain or increase revenues. Also, significant changes and volatility in the equity, credit and foreign exchange markets, and in the competitive landscape, make it increasingly difficult for us to predict our revenues and earnings into the future. Another manner in which the worldwide economic and financial situation is adversely affecting us relates to the pension plans that cover our employees. As of December 31, 2008, our pension plans were under-funded by approximately $0.2 million as a result of the performance of the financial markets, which has required us to record an accrual of such amount in our financial statements. If the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected, the likelihood of our being required to make further accruals and ultimately further contributions to make up the shortfall in the pension funds will increase. Because of the volatility in the equity markets, our estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. See Item 18. “Financial Statements – Note 2U.” Implementing our strategy of focusing on the market for software solutions in the insurance industry has taken longer than anticipated, and we may not succeed in gaining acceptance in that market. Our goal is to rise to a position of global leadership in delivering strategic business software solutions to the insurance industry. Achieving this goal requires us, among other things, to design appropriate software solutions, maintain sufficient sales and marketing resources, recruit, train and hire sufficient professional services personnel and face intense competition. We have experienced delays in penetration of the insurance industry, and expect that additional time will be required to achieve our goal. Our future efforts to gain acceptance for our solutions may still not succeed, which could have a material adverse affect on our results. 3 We have a history of losses, and we anticipate that our revenues for the short to medium term will not significantly increase and may decrease while our expenses may increase as a result of maintaining our research and development, sales and marketing efforts and increased interest costs. We incurred net losses of approximately $2.5 million and $0.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2008, respectively. We cannot predict that our losses will continue to decrease, or whether we may become profitable on a sustained basis. Due to the delay in the implementation of our strategy of offering solutions to the insurance industry and possible decline in orders from existing customers, especially because of the current worldwide economic and financial situation, we have no assurance that our revenues in the short to medium term will significantly increase, if at all, and they may decrease. At the same time, expenses may increase in the foreseeable future as we maintain our research and development, sales and marketing activities. In addition, following our offering of approximately $17.1 million principal amount of convertible debentures in December 2003, and an additional $1.5 million of convertible debentures in March 2004, upon the exercise by non-affiliates of the Company of options that were offered together with the original convertible debentures in December 2003, we have the obligation to pay the debenture holders interest and to pay the principal amount when the debentures are due, which, following various repurchases of debentures by us, currently amounts to approximately NIS 20.3 million or $5.3 million (using the December 31, 2008 exchange rate of NIS 3.802 per $1). Our research and development, marketing and sales efforts may prove more costly than we currently anticipate, and we may not succeed in the long term in increasing our revenues sufficiently to offset the expenses of those efforts and of paying back the principal and paying the interest on the debentures. If our revenues fail to increase at a greater rate than our expenses, we will not be able to achieve profitability. We have a history of declining working capital. Our working capital may once again decrease and we may need to raise capital again. Historically, our liquidity has reduced due to the drop in our available cash reserves. In 2007, we raised gross capital of $20 million (excluding finders’ fees and out of pocket expenses), and at December 31, 2008, we had negative working capital of $4.5 million. In the past, we have needed to raise capital in order to continue financing our business activities, to pay back the principal and the interest on the debentures that were issued by us and to continue meeting our other obligations. Despite our last capital raise in 2007, there is no assurance that our past trend of diminishing working capital will not continue. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing, or if we do, that it will be on favorable terms. In addition, if we issue capital stock to investors in order to raise cash, our existing shareholders will experience dilution. As a result of an offering of convertible debentures, we have significant debt, and the amount of the debt could hinder our activities and affect the flexibility needed for such activities. In December 2003, we completed an offering of convertible debentures on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange (“TASE”). The offering resulted in gross proceeds to us of approximately $17.1 million. The debentures were offered in units which included options to purchase additional debentures and warrants to purchase our Common Shares. Options which were exercised by non-affiliates of the Company before their expiry date resulted in additional gross proceeds of approximately $1.5 million to the Company in the first quarter of 2004. None of the warrants were exercised and they expired on November 21, 2007. 4 In August 2006, a majority of the debenture holders approved changes to the amount and the timing of the first installment payment of the principal of the debentures, such that the payment of 50% of the first payment amount was deferred to December 5, 2009, and we were given the opportunity to either pay back the other 50% of the first payment amount, or to convert such amount into our Common Shares. On November 30, 2006, we announced our decision to pay the approximately $2.4 million in cash, and on December 5, 2006, we made the payment. There can be no guarantee that the debenture holders will agree to any changes to the terms of the debentures in the future. In June 2007, we entered into a private placement transaction for an aggregate gross amount of $20 million (excluding finders’ fees and out of pocket expenses). Following the private placement transaction, in June 2007, we repurchased an aggregate amount of NIS 15,000,000 nominal value of debentures, representing approximately, $3.5 million of the outstanding debentures. In December 2007, we repaid approximately NIS 18.6 million or $4.9 million (using the December 5, 2007 exchange rate of NIS 3.845 per $1) which reflects approximately NIS 16.9 million or $4.4 million for the second of the four annual re-payments of the principal of the debentures, and approximately NIS 1.7 million or $0.5 million for the semi-annual interest payment. In January and February 2008, we repurchased an additional aggregate amount of NIS 7,600,000 nominal value of debentures, representing approximately, $2.1 million of the outstanding debentures. In December 2008, we repaid approximately NIS 14.9 million or $3.7 million (using the December 5, 2008 exchange rate of NIS 3.981 per $1), which reflects approximately NIS 13.9 million or $3.5 million for the third of the four annual re-payments of the principal of the debentures, and approximately NIS 1.0 million or $0.2 million for the semi-annual interest payment. Similarly, in January 2009, we repurchased an aggregate amount of NIS 1,605,799 nominal value of debentures, representing approximately $0.4 million, of the outstanding debentures. Pursuant to the terms of the prospectus governing the debentures, the amounts repurchased by us were retired and removed from circulation on the TASE. As a result, the total amount that we must pay in June and December 2009 (interest and principal) was reduced to approximately NIS 20.3 million or $5.3 million (using the December 31, 2008 exchange rate of NIS 3.802 per $1). In the past, we did not create sufficient positive cash flow from operations to make such payments. We currently have enough funds to make the December 2009 payments. However, if we use those funds for other purposes in the future, we may not have enough funds to make the future principal and interest payments. We cannot be certain that our credit lines will be renewed in the future, and if they are, that they will be on favorable terms, especially in light of the current worldwide economic and financial situation. If we are unable to obtain through other means the funds needed to make such payments, we could breach the terms of the debentures and of the Trust Deed which we entered into in connection with the offering. Even if we are able to make the payments required by the debentures, the amount of the debt could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. For example, the debt could restrict our ability to obtain additional financing, restrict our flexibility in planning or in reacting to changes in the business, place us in a position inferior to that of competitors with lower debts or make us more vulnerable if there is a downturn in our revenues or in the economy in general. The amount of the debt could require us to dedicate a material part of our cash flow to payment of interest and repayment of principal, thereby reducing our ability to use the cash for other purposes such as working capital. The failure of our new solutions to achieve market acceptance or continued delays in our current or future efforts to develop software solutions could erode our competitive position. The failure to successfully develop, enhance or modify our software solutions, or the failure to do so on a timely basis, could limit our revenue growth and competitive position. We may need to rapidly develop and introduce additional software and enhancements to our existing solutions to satisfy our current customers and maintain our competitive position in the marketplace. We may also need to modify our software so that it can operate with new or enhanced software that may be introduced by other software vendors. The failure to introduce new, enhanced or modified software on a timely basis could prevent our solutions from achieving market acceptance. We have experienced in the past, and anticipate experiencing in the future, delays in the timing of the introduction of new solutions and market acceptance of those solutions. To support our software development, enhancement or modification, we may find it necessary to license or acquire new technologies, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we fail to remain technologically competitive, we could lose customers or market share. The market for our solutions is characterized by rapidly changing business conditions and customer requirements. The introduction of solutions embodying new technology and the emergence of new customer requirements can render existing technology obsolete and unmarketable. Our ability to anticipate changes in technology and customer requirements and to successfully develop and introduce new and enhanced solutions on a timely basis are and will be significant factors in our ability to grow and to remain competitive. Substantial expenditures are required for research and development and the introduction of new products. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to make such investments, especially in light of the current worldwide financial and economic situation, or that these investments will bring the full advantages or any advantage as planned. We have in the past experienced delays in introducing our technology and enhancements, and there can be no assurance that we will not encounter technical or other difficulties that could delay introduction of new technologies or enhancements in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing enhancements that incorporate new technology on a timely basis, or that our new solutions will adequately address the changing needs of the marketplace. Our failure, for technological or other reasons, to timely develop and market products incorporating new technologies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 5 The software solutions market that we address is expected to evolve rapidly, and if we are not able to accurately predict and respond to market developments or customer needs, our competitive position will be impaired. The market for the solutions that we provide is expected to evolve rapidly. However, estimates of our market’s expected growth are inherently uncertain and are subject to many risks and assumptions. Moreover, many of our customers operate in markets characterized by rapidly changing technologies and business plans. Rapid changes in the needs of these customers and changing technologies make it difficult for us to predict their demands. We are particularly susceptible to those changes since our software is used in a wide array of operating environments, which are constantly evolving. As a result, we may not be able to develop, on a timely basis or at all, solutions that meet our customers’ needs or desires. In addition, various sectors of our market are served by competitors who may respond more effectively to market developments and customer needs. There can be no assurance that the market for our solutions will grow or that we will be able to respond to changes in the market, evolving customer needs or our competition. If the market for our solutions does not develop as we expect or if we fail to respond to market and competitive developments, our business prospects and competitive position might be impaired. If existing customers do not make subsequent purchases from us or if our relationships with our largest customers are impaired, our revenue could be negatively affected Our existing customers are a key asset of ours, and we depend on repeat product and service revenues from our base of customers. Specifically, revenues from sales to Menora Mivtachim Insurance Ltd. (“Menora”) and Liverpool Victoria Friendly Services (“Liverpool Victoria”) constituted 25.6% and 7.4%, respectively, of our consolidated revenues in 2008. There can be no assurance that our existing customers will enter into new project contracts with us or that they will continue using our enabling technologies. If our revenue stream from existing customers were to decline significantly, it would have a material adverse impact on our operating results. In light of the worldwide financial and economic situation, we have seen a delay and reduction in investments by our customers. If this trend continues, it could negatively impact our financial results. The relationships with two large customers of our U.S. subsidiary – Texas Farm Bureau Insurance Companies, and Occidental Fire & Casualty; two large customers of our subsidiary in the United Kingdom –EDS Credit Services and Liverpool Victoria; and a large customer of our subsidiary in Israel – Menora Mivtachim, are the sources of a large portion of the revenues of each of those three subsidiaries. During 2008, revenues from sales to the American customers specified above constituted 48.1% of the total revenues of the U.S. subsidiary (8.4% of our consolidated revenues); revenues from sales to the British customers specified above constituted 42.8% of the total revenues of the U.K. subsidiary (11.4% of our consolidated revenues); and revenues from sales to the Israeli customer specified above constituted 69.1% of the total revenues of the Israeli subsidiary (25.6% of our consolidated revenues). We compete against companies with significantly greater resources than our own. The market for software solutions and related services, and for business solutions for the insurance industry, in particular, is highly competitive. Our principal competitors generally have significantly greater resources than we do. Our customers or potential customers could prefer suppliers that are larger than us and that have not experienced losses such as ours. There is no guarantee that our customers, present and future, will be confident in our financial stability going forward. Price reductions or declines in demand for our solutions and services, whether as a result of competition, technological change, economic downturn, changes in the level of application development, reengineering or maintenance performed internally by our customers or potential customers would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 6 Our business involves long-term, large projects, some of which are fixed-price projects that involve uncertainties, such as estimated project costs and profit margins. Our business is characterized by relatively large projects or engagements that can have a significant impact on our total revenue and cost of revenue from quarter to quarter. A high percentage of our expenses, particularly employee compensation, is relatively fixed. Therefore, a variation in the timing of the initiation, progress or completion of projects or engagements, especially at or near the end of any quarter, can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. Some of our solutions are sold as fixed-price projects with delivery requirements spanning more than one year. If our actual cost-to-completion of these projects differs significantly from the estimated costs, we could experience a loss on the related contracts, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flow. Similarly, delays in executing client contracts may affect our revenue and cause our operating results to vary widely. Some of our solutions may be priced in excess of $1.0 million and are delivered over periods of time ranging from several months to a few years. Payment terms are generally based on periodic payments or on the achievement of milestones. Any delays in payment or in the achievement of milestones may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. The sales cycle for our solutions is long and variable, typically ranging between nine months to eighteen months from initial contact with the potential client to the signing of a contract. Occasionally, sales require substantially more time. This variability may adversely affect our operating results in any particular quarter. Our business involves business-critical solutions which expose us to potential liability claims. Our products focus on organizations’ business-critical applications, including those related to core business solutions for the insurance industry, and we provide re-engineering and re-development services for customers’ specialized needs. Since our customers rely on our software to operate, monitor and improve the performance of their critical software applications, they are sensitive to potential disruptions that may be caused by the use of, or any defects in, our software. As a result, we may be subject to claims for damages related to software errors in the future. Liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. Regardless of whether we prevail, diversion of key employees’ time and attention from our business, incurrence of substantial expenses and potential damage to our reputation might result. While the terms of our sales contracts typically limit our exposure to potential liability claims, and we carry errors and omissions insurance against such claims, there can be no assurance that such insurance will continue to be available on acceptable terms, if at all, or that such insurance will provide us with adequate protection against any such claims. A significant liability claim against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Defects in our technology would harm our business and divert resources. The quality of our products, enhancements and new versions is critical to our success. Since our software solutions are complex, they may contain errors that can be detected at any point in their life cycle. Any errors or defects in our technology could result in: — delayed or lost revenue; — failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; — claims against us; — diversion of development resources; — increased service, warranty and insurance costs; and — negative publicity resulting in damage to our reputation. While we continually test our products for errors and work with customers to identify and correct them, errors in our technology may be found in the future. Testing for errors is complicated because it is difficult to simulate the breadth of operating systems, user applications and computing environments that our customers use and because our software is becoming increasingly complex itself. The costs we may incur in addressing technology errors could be substantial and could impair our results of operations. 7 Although we protect our intellectual property rights, there can be no assurance that the measures that we employ to do so will be successful. In accordance with industry practice, since we have no registered patents, we rely on a combination of contractual provisions and intellectual property law to protect our proprietary technology. We believe that due to the dynamic nature of the computer and software industries, copyright protection is less significant than factors such as the knowledge and experience of our management and personnel, the frequency of product enhancements and the timeliness and quality of our support services. We seek to protect the source code of our products as trade secret information and as an unpublished copyright work. We also rely on security and copy protection features in our proprietary software. We distribute our products under software license agreements that grant customers a personal, non-transferable license to use our products and contain terms and conditions prohibiting the unauthorized reproduction or transfer of our products. In addition, we attempt to protect trade secrets and other proprietary information through non-disclosure agreements with employees, consultants and distributors. Although we intend to protect our rights vigorously, there can be no assurance that these measures will be successful. Our failure to protect our rights, or the improper use of our products by others without licensing them from us, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our Sapiens eMerge™ solution is proprietary to us and if we need to hire programmers, maintenance and professional services providers, we would incur training costs and delays due to training. Our Sapiens eMerge™ solution was designed by us and its use requires special knowledge and training. If our current employees leave the Company or if a new project is undertaken by the Company and we need to hire new programmers or people to provide maintenance and professional services to our customers, we would have to train the new employees and consultants in Sapiens eMerge™. As a result, we would incur training costs and would have to delay implementation of projects and services until such individuals were adequately trained. In addition, once these individuals are initially trained, they would still be inexperienced with Sapiens eMerge™ and would take additional time to develop efficiency and proficiency with Sapiens eMerge™. As a result of these costs and delays, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations, our financial condition, our cash flows and our relationships with our customers. Some of our potential customers are reluctant to purchase proprietary solutions. Some customers of information technology solutions are reluctant to purchase solutions that are not off-the-shelf or widely used by a broad customer base. Since our Sapiens eMerge™ solution and our Sapiens INSIGHT™ suite of solutions are proprietary to us and require special knowledge and training, we have faced reluctance by potential customers to purchase our proprietary solutions. Such reluctance could have a negative impact on our results of operations and our financial condition. As part of our business strategy, we may make acquisitions that could disrupt our business and harm our results of operations and financial condition. As part of our growth strategy, we may consider acquiring complementary technologies, products and businesses. If we use capital stock in connection with such acquisitions, our existing shareholders may experience dilution. If we use cash or debt financing, our financial liquidity will be reduced, the holders of our debt would have claims on our assets ahead of holders of our Common Shares and our business operations may be restricted by the terms of any debt. An acquisition may involve nonrecurring charges or amortization of significant amounts of intangible assets, which would adversely affect our ability to achieve and maintain profitability. Attempted acquisitions may divert management, operational and financial resources from the conduct of our core business, and we may not complete any attempted acquisition. The terms of our bank debt include a number of restrictive covenants which, if breached, could result in acceleration of our obligation to repay our debt. Our loan and credit line agreements contain a number of conditions and limitations on the ways in which we can operate our business, including limitations on our ability to raise debt, sell or acquire assets and pay dividends. Our loan and credit line agreements also contain various covenants which require us to maintain certain financial performance milestones related to shareholders’ equity and operating results. These limitations and covenants may force us to pursue less than optimal business strategies or forego business arrangements which could have been financially advantageous to us or our shareholders. There can be no assurance that we will fulfill these covenants or, if we do not fulfill one or more of these covenants, that we will receive from our lender banks waivers of the required fulfillment of such covenants. 8 Our failure to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our loan and credit line agreements could lead to a default under the terms of these agreements. If a default occurs and we are unable to renegotiate the terms of the debt, the lenders could declare all amounts borrowed and all amounts due to them under the agreements due and payable. If we are unable to repay the debt, the lenders could foreclose on our assets that are subject to liens and sell our assets to satisfy the debt. As part of our loan agreements, the assets of our subsidiary in the United States are subject to a security interest and the assets of our subsidiaries in Israel and the United Kingdom are subject to a floating lien. Foreclosure on these assets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our future results could be adversely affected by an impairment of the value of certain intangible assets. The assets listed in our consolidated balance sheet include, among other things, goodwill amounted to approximately $8.6 million, capitalized software development costs, net, amounted to approximately $14.4 million, long-term deferred income taxes amounted to approximately $2.2 million, and short-term deferred income taxes amounted to approximately $1.0 million. The applicable accounting standards require that (a) goodwill be tested for impairment at least annually, and written down when impaired; (b) capitalized software costs be assessed for recoverability on a regular basis, to determine whether the amortization of the asset over its remaining life can be recovered through undiscounted future operating cash flows from the specific software product sold, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 86 (“Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software to be Sold, Leased or Otherwise Marketed”); and (c) certain identifiable intangible assets such as deferred taxes be reviewed for impairment in certain circumstances. If our goodwill, capitalized software development costs, or deferred tax assets, were deemed to be impaired in whole or in part due to the Company not achieving its goals, we could be required to reduce or write off such assets, thus having to recognize additional expense in our statements of operations and to reduce our shareholders’ equity. Our quarterly results may be impacted by multiple short-term factors. Our revenue and operating results could vary widely from quarter to quarter as a result of several different factors, such as the budgeting and purchasing practices of our customers, the length of our customers’ product evaluation process, the timing of our customers’ system conversions, the timing and cost of new product introductions and product enhancements, and the timing of any acquisitions and associated costs. Employee hiring and the rate of utilization of such employees may also affect our revenues and results of operations. Our international operations involve inherent risks, such as foreign currency fluctuations and compliance with various regulatory and tax regimes. Most of our revenues are derived from international operations that are conducted in local currencies as well as dollars. Changes in the value of such local currencies or the dollar relative to such local currencies may affect our financial position and results of operations. Gains and losses on translations to dollars of assets and liabilities may contribute to fluctuations in our financial position and results of operations. In certain locations, we engage in currency-hedging transactions intended to reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our financial position and results of operations. However, there can be no assurance that any such hedging transaction, if entered into, will materially reduce the effect of fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates on such results. In addition, if for any reason exchange or price controls or other restrictions on the conversion of foreign currencies were imposed, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. Other potential risks that may impact our international business activities include longer accounts receivable payment cycles, the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and changes in regulatory requirements, although such factors have not had a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations to date. 9 Formula Systems (1985) Ltd. and its parent company Emblaze Ltd., may exercise control and influence corporate actions that are potentially in conflict with our other public shareholders. Formula Systems (1985) Ltd. (“Formula”), whose ADRs trade on NASDAQ (under the trading symbol: FORTY) and whose shares trade on the TASE (under the trading symbol: FORT), directly owned (as of April 1, 2009) 15,114,837, or approximately 70%, of our currently outstanding Common Shares. In November 2006, Emblaze Ltd. (“Emblaze”), whose ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange (under the trading symbol: BLZ.L), purchased the controlling interest of Formula, and as a result, control of us. As of April 1, 2009, Emblaze owned 51.7% of the outstanding share capital of Formula and, therefore, has an indirect controlling influence over us. Emblaze, through Formula, is and may continue to be in a position to exercise control over most matters requiring shareholder approval. Formula may use its share ownership or representation on our Board of Directors to substantially influence corporate actions that conflict with the interests of our other public shareholders including, without limitation, changing the size and composition of our Board of Directors and committees of our Board of Directors, causing the issuance of further securities, amending our governing documents or otherwise controlling the outcome of shareholder votes. Further, actions by Formula with respect to the disposition of the Common Shares it beneficially owns, or the perception that such actions may occur, may adversely affect the trading price of our Common Shares. Eli Reifman and Guy Bernstein from Emblaze, Hadas Gazit Kaiser (formally from Emblaze) of Magic Enterprises Ltd, an affiliate of ours, and Naamit Salomon of Formula, are all members of our Board of Directors. Eli Reifman serves as Chairman of our Board of Directors. If we are classified as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. Generally, if for any taxable year, after applying certain look-through rules, 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of the value of our assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to our shareholders who are U.S. taxpayers, including having gain realized on the sale of our Common Shares being treated as ordinary income rather than capital gain income and could result in punitive interest charges being applied to such sales proceeds. Rules similar to those applicable to dispositions apply to amounts treated as “excess distributions.” We believe we were not a PFIC in 2008, just as we believe we were not a PFIC for at least the past 5 years. We currently expect that we will not be a PFIC in 2009. However, PFIC status is determined as of the end of the taxable year and is dependent on a number of factors. Therefore, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC for the year ending December 31, 2009 or in a future taxable year. U.S. shareholders should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our Common Shares. For a discussion of how we might be characterized as a PFIC and related tax consequences, please see Item 10.E, “Additional Information – Taxation – U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations – Tax Consequences if We Are a Passive Foreign Investment Company.” Risks Relating to Conducting Business in Israel We face currency exchange risks, as changes in exchange rates between the US dollar and other currencies, especially the NIS, may negatively impact our costs. Exchange rate fluctuations between the US dollar and other currencies which we and our subsidiaries use, especially the NIS, may negatively affect our earnings. Moreover, a significant portion of our expenses, including research and development, personnel and facilities-related expenses, are incurred in Israel, in NIS. In addition, our obligations under the debentures that we issued are linked to the US dollar only if the exchange rate between the NIS and the US dollar is greater than NIS 4.394 per 1 US dollar. (On March 31, 2009, the exchange rate between the NIS and the US dollar was NIS 4.188 per 1 US dollar.) Consequently, we are exposed to the risk of appreciation of the NIS vis-à-vis the US dollar. This appreciation would cause, and in 2008 did cause, an increase in our expenses as recorded in our US dollar denominated financial statements even though the expenses denominated in local currencies remains unchanged. Accordingly, our level of revenues and profits may be adversely affected by exchange rate fluctuations. 10 Due to the appreciation of the NIS vis-à-vis the US dollar in 2008 and the exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and other currencies which we and our subsidiaries use, our foreign currency transaction differences, net, decreased to approximately $0.3 million in 2008, from $0.7 million in 2007. See Note 15.b to our consolidated financial statements. Since December 31, 2008, the US dollar has strengthened vis-à-vis the NIS by approximately 10% and the NIS/US dollar exchange rate as of March 31, 2009 was NIS 4.188 per 1 U.S. dollar. We cannot predict any future trends in the US dollar/ NIS exchange rate. We cannot assure you that we will not be materially affected in the future from currency exchange rate fluctuations. See Item 11- “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk – Foreign Currency Risk.” Conducting business in Israel entails certain inherent risks that could harm our business. Our corporate headquarters and research and development facilities are located in the State of Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. We could be adversely affected by any major hostilities involving Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. In addition, several countries still restrict business with Israel and with companies doing business in Israel. These political, economic and military conditions in Israel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth. Since September 2000, there has been a marked increase in violence, civil unrest and hostility, including armed clashes, between the State of Israel and the Palestinians, and acts of terror have been committed inside Israel and against Israeli targets in the West Bank and Gaza. These developments have adversely affected the regional peace process, placed the Israeli economy under significant stress, and have negatively influenced Israel’s relationship with several Arab countries. The establishment in 2006 of a government in the Palestinian Authority by representatives of the Hamas militant group resulted in an escalation in violence among Israel, the Palestinian Authority and other groups and has created additional unrest and uncertainty in the region. Further, during the summer of 2006, Israel was engaged in a war with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group, which involved rockets being fired from Lebanon up to 50 miles into Israel and disrupted most day-to-day civilian activity in northern Israel. In January 2009, Israel engaged in a military action against Hamas in Gaza to prevent continued rocket attacks against Israel. These developments have further strained relations between Israel and the Palestinians. Any future armed conflict, political instability or violence in the region, including acts of terrorism, may have a negative effect on our business condition, harm our results of operations and adversely affect our share price. Some of our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform military reserve duty, currently consisting of approximately 30 days of service annually (or more for reserves officers or citizens with certain occupations). Additionally, they are subject to being called to active duty at any time upon the outbreak of hostilities. While we have operated effectively under these requirements since the establishment of Sapiens, no assessment can be made as to the full impact of such requirements on our business or work force and no prediction can be made as to the effect on us of any expansion of such obligations. 11 Risks Related to the Market for our Common Shares If we fail to meet the standards for continued listing of our shares on NASDAQ, the shares could be de-listed from the NASDAQ Capital Market. A company must continue to comply with several requirements in order to remain listed on NASDAQ. One of the requirements is that a company maintain a $1.00 minimum bid price (the “Minimum Bid Price Requirement”). Under the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, a failure to meet the continued listing requirement for minimum bid price on the NASDAQ Capital Market shall be determined to exist only if the deficiency continues for a period of 30 consecutive business days. On March 20, 2009, NASDAQ suspended the Minimum Bid Price Requirement until July 19, 2009. Since February 17, 2009, the closing price of our Common Shares on the NASDAQ Capital Market has been below $1.00. The closing price of our Common Shares on the NASDAQ Capital Market, on April 17, 2009, was $0.81 per share. If we fail to comply with the Minimum Bid Price Requirement, our Common Shares could be de-listed from the NASDAQ Capital Market, which could have a material adverse effect on our share prices and our standing with current and future investors. In addition, if we are de-listed from the NASDAQ Capital Market, we may no longer be eligible for certain benefits granted by the Israel Securities Law to companies that are “dual listed” on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange and a foreign (non-Israeli) securities exchange. The removal of such benefits would require us to incur additional costs relating to periodic reporting in Israel and would have a material impact on our results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will continue to meet all of the requirements for continued NASDAQ listing. Failure to meet one of NASDAQ’s continued listing standards could result in the delisting of our Common Shares from NASDAQ. Our Common Shares are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our Common Shares are traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market and the TASE. Trading in our Common Shares on these markets will be made in different currencies (US dollars on the NASDAQ Capital Market and NIS on the TASE), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the U.S. and Israel). The trading prices of our Common Shares on these two markets may differ due to these and other factors. Any decrease in the trading price of our Common Shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our Common Shares on the other market. There is very little trading volume for our Common Shares, which causes the stock price to be volatile and which may lead to losses by investors. There is very little trading volume for our Common Shares, both on the NASDAQ Capital Market and the TASE. As a result, our Common Shares have experienced significant market price volatility in the past and may experience significant market price and volume fluctuations in the future, in response to factors such as announcements of developments related to our business, announcements by competitors, quarterly fluctuations in our financial results and general conditions in the industry in which we compete. 12 