D. Risk Factors. We operate globally in a dynamic and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. The following section lists some, but not all, of those risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 3 Risks Relating to Our Business, Our Industry and our Financing Activities The software solutions market that we address is expected to continue to evolve, and if we are not able to accurately predict and rapidly respond to market developments or customer needs, our competitive position will be impaired. The market for our solutions is characterized by changing business conditions and customer requirements, including requirements based on regulations to which our customers are subject. Nevertheless, estimates of the market's expected growth resulting from the changing conditions and requirements are inherently uncertain and are subject to many risks and assumptions. We may need to develop and introduce additional software and enhancements to our existing solutions to satisfy our current customers and maintain our competitive position in the marketplace. We may also need to modify our software so that it can operate with new or enhanced software that may be introduced by other software vendors, it can be used in different environments or it can comply with regulatory requirements to which our customers are subject. The failure to anticipate changes in technology, partner and customer requirements and successfully develop, enhance or modify our software solutions, or the failure to do so on a timely basis, could limit our revenue growth and competitive position. Our development cycles are lengthy, we may not have the resources available to complete development of new solutions and enhancements and modifications of our current solutions and we may incur significant expenses before we generate revenues, if any, from new solutions or such enhancements or modifications. Because our solutions are complex and require rigorous testing, development cycles can be lengthy, taking us up to two years to develop and introduce new, enhanced or modified products. Moreover, development projects can be technically challenging and expensive. The nature of these development cycles may cause us to experience delays between the time we incur expenses associated with research and development and the time we generate revenues, if any, from such expenses. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to make such investments or that these investments will bring the full advantages or any advantage as planned. If existing customers do not make subsequent purchases from us and continue using our solutions and services or if our relationships with our largest customers are impaired, our revenue could be negatively affected Our existing customers are a key asset, and we depend on repeat product and service revenues from our base of customers. Five of our customers represent 33% of our revenues (which include customers of our newly-acquired businesses from August 21, 2011 when we acquired these businesses, as described below). There can be no assurance that our existing customers will enter into new project contracts with us or that they will continue using our technologies. A significant decline in our revenue stream from existing customers would have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our sales cycle is variable, depends upon many factors outside our control, and could cause us to expend significant time and resources prior to earning associated revenues. The typical sales cycle for our solutions and services is lengthy and unpredictable, requires pre-purchase evaluation by a significant number of employees in our customers’ organizations, and often involves a significant operational decision by our customers. Our sales efforts involve educating our customers and industry analysts and consultants about the use and benefits of our products, including the technical capabilities of our products and the potential cost savings achievable by organizations deploying our solutions. Customers typically undertake a significant evaluation process, which frequently involves not only our products, but also those of our competitors and can result in a lengthy sales cycle. Our sales cycle for new customers is typically six to eighteen months and can extend even longer in some cases. We spend substantial time, effort and money in our sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. 4 As part of our business strategy, we have made and may continue to make acquisitions, which, if not successfully integrated into our business, could harm our results of operations and financial condition and, if we issue securities or need to obtain debt financing to complete such acquisitions, could negatively impact our capital structure. In August 2011, we acquired IDIT I.D.I. Technologies Ltd. (“IDIT”) and FIS Software Ltd. (“FIS”). In April 2010 we acquired Harcase Software Limited ("Harcase"). We have commenced the integration of IDIT and FIS into our current business, including adding their solutions to our product line and integrating their employees, including developers, technical support providers and sales and marketing personnel into our business. We expect that this process will continue through 2012, but there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate the businesses of IDIT and FIS into our business and achieve anticipated synergies. As part of our growth strategy, we may consider acquiring other products and businesses to grow our revenues and increase our customer base. We face the risk that businesses we may acquire in the future may ultimately fail to further our strategies. In addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired technologies and achieve expected synergies or take advantage of the increase in our customer base. Further, we may not be able to retain the key employees that may be necessary to operate the businesses we acquired and may acquire and we may not be able to timely attract new skilled employees and management to replace them. We may also compete with others to acquire businesses or other technologies, and such competition may result in decreased availability of, or increased prices for, suitable acquisition candidates. In addition, for various commercial and economic considerations, we may not be able to consummate acquisitions that we have identified as crucial to the implementation of our strategy. Furthermore, attempted acquisitions may divert management, operational and financial resources from the conduct of our core business, and we may not complete any attempted acquisition. In addition, for some of our recent acquisitions, we have used capital stock, thereby diluting our shareholders and if we use capital stock in connection with such acquisitions, our existing shareholders may experience further dilution. If we use cash or debt financing, our financial liquidity will be reduced, the holders of our debt would have claims on our assets ahead of holders of our Common Shares and our business operations may be restricted by the terms of any debt. An acquisition may involve accounting charges and/or amortization of significant amounts of intangible assets, which would adversely affect our ability to achieve and maintain profitability. 5 The market for software solutions and related services is highly competitive. The market for software solutions and related services and for business solutions for the insurance and financial services industry in particular, is highly competitive. Many of our smaller competitors have been acquired by larger competitors, which provides such smaller competitors with greater resources and potentially a larger client base for which they can develop solutions. Our customers or potential customers could prefer suppliers that are larger than us, are better known in the market or that have a greater global reach. In addition, we and some of our competitors have developed systems to allow customers to outsource their core systems to external providers (known as BPO). We are seeking to partner with BPO providers, but there can be no assurance that such BPO providers will adopt our solutions rather than those of our competitors. Determinations by current and potential customers to use BPO providers that do not use our solutions may result in the loss of such customers and limit our ability to gain new customers. Our business involves long-term, large projects, some of which are fixed-price projects that involve uncertainties, such as estimated project costs and profit margins. Our business is characterized by relatively large projects or engagements that can have a significant impact on our total revenue and cost of revenue from quarter to quarter. A high percentage of our expenses, particularly employee compensation, are relatively fixed. Therefore, a variation in the timing of the initiation, progress or completion of projects or engagements can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. Some of our solutions are sold as fixed-price projects with delivery requirements spanning more than one year. As our projects can be highly complex, we may not be able to accurately estimate our actual costs of completing a fixed-project. If our actual cost-to-completion of these projects differs significantly from the estimated costs, we could experience a loss on the related contracts, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flow. Similarly, delays in executing client contracts may affect our revenue and cause our operating results to vary widely. Our solutions are delivered over periods of time ranging from several months to a few years. Payment terms are generally based on periodic payments or on the achievement of milestones. Any delays in payment or in the achievement of milestones may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Failure to meet customer expectations with respect to the implementation and use of our solutions could result in negative publicity, reduced sales and diversion of resources, all of which would harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. We provide our customers with upfront estimates regarding the duration, budget and costs associated with the implementation of our products. Implementation of our solutions is complex and meeting the anticipated duration, budget and costs often depend on factors beyond our control. We may not meet the upfront estimates and expectations of our customers for the implementation of products as a result of our product capabilities or service engagements by us, our system integrator partners or our customers' IT employees. 6 The quality of our solutions, enhancements and new versions is critical to our success. Since our software solutions are complex, they may contain errors that can be detected at any point in their life cycle. While we continually test our software for errors or defects and work with customers to identify and correct them, errors in our technology may be found in the future. Testing for errors or defects is complicated because it is difficult to simulate the breadth of operating systems, user applications and computing environments that our customers use and our software itself is increasingly complex. If we fail to meet upfront estimates and the expectations of our customers for the implementation of our products we could lose customers and be subject to negative publicity regarding us and our solutions, which could adversely affect our ability to attract new customers and sell additional products and services to existing customers. In addition, errors or defects in our technology could result in delayed or lost revenue, claims against us, diversion of development resources and increased service, warranty and insurance costs. In addition, time-consuming implementations may also increase the number of services personnel we must allocate to each customer, thereby increasing our costs and adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business involves business-critical solutions which expose us to potential liability claims. Since our customers rely on our solutions to operate, monitor and improve the performance of their business processes, they are sensitive to potential disruptions that may be caused by the use of, or any defects in, our software. As a result, we may be subject to claims for damages related to software errors in the future. Liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. Regardless of whether we prevail, diversion of key employees’ time and attention from our business, incurrence of substantial expenses and potential damage to our reputation might result. While the terms of our sales contracts typically limit our exposure to potential liability claims and we carry errors and omissions insurance against such claims, there can be no assurance that such insurance will continue to be available on acceptable terms, if at all, or that such insurance will provide us with adequate protection against any such claims. A significant liability claim against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Although we apply measures to protect our intellectual property rights and our source code, there can be no assurance that the measures that we employ to do so will be successful. In accordance with industry practice, since we have no registered patents, we rely on a combination of contractual provisions and intellectual property law to protect our proprietary technology. We believe that due to the dynamic nature of the computer and software industries, copyright protection is less significant than factors such as the knowledge and experience of our management and personnel, the frequency of product enhancements and the timeliness and quality of our support services. We seek to protect the source code of our products as trade secret information and as unpublished copyright works. We also rely on security and copy protection features in our proprietary software. We distribute our products under software license agreements that grant customers a personal, non-transferable license to use our products and contain terms and conditions prohibiting the unauthorized reproduction or transfer of our products. In addition, we attempt to protect trade secrets and other proprietary information through non-disclosure agreements with employees, consultants and distributors. Although we intend to protect our rights vigorously, there can be no assurance that these measures will be successful. Our failure to protect our rights, or the improper use of our products by others without licensing them from us, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 7 If our products experience data security breaches, and there is unauthorized access to our customers' data, we may lose current or future customers and our reputation and business may be harmed. Our products are used by our customers to manage and store proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to their businesses. Although we maintain security features in our products, our security measures may not detect or prevent hacker interceptions, break-ins, security breaches, the introduction of viruses or malicious code, and other disruptions that may jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted by our products. A party that is able to circumvent our security measures in our products could misappropriate our or our customers' proprietary or confidential information, cause interruption in their operations, damage or misuse their computer systems, and misuse any information that they misappropriate. If any compromise of the security of our products were to occur, we may lose customers and our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Our future results could be adversely affected by an impairment of the value of certain intangible assets and goodwill. As a result of our acquisitions of IDIT and FIS, our intangible assets and goodwill increased significantly. Our assets as of December 31, 2011 include, among other things, goodwill amounting to approximately $67 million, capitalized software development costs, net, amounting to approximately $17 million, customer relationship amounting to approximately $8 million, developed technology and in process R&D amounting to approximately $5 million. The applicable accounting standards require that (a) goodwill be tested for impairment at least annually, and written down when impaired and (b) capitalized software, customer relationship and developed technology costs be assessed for recoverability on a regular basis, to determine whether the amortization of the asset over its remaining life can be recovered through undiscounted future operating cash flows from the specific software product sold, in accordance with ASC 985 "Software." If our goodwill, capitalized software development costs, customer relationship or developed technology were deemed to be impaired in whole or in part due to adverse changes in the income we receive from our products, we could be required to reduce or write off such assets, thus having to recognize additional expense in our statements of operations and to reduce our shareholders’ equity. 8 Weakened global economic conditions may adversely affect the financial services industry generally and the insurance industry in specific, including the rate of information technology spending, which could cause our customers to defer or forego purchases of our products or services. Our business depends on the overall demand for information technology from, and on the economic health of, our current and prospective customers. In addition, the purchase of our products is discretionary and involves a significant commitment of capital and other resources. Economies throughout the world currently face a number of economic challenges, including threatened sovereign defaults, credit downgrades, restricted credit for businesses and consumers and potentially falling demand for a variety of products and services. Notwithstanding the recent recovery in some of the financial markets, many companies are still cutting back expenditures or delaying plans to add additional personnel or systems. Our customers have and may suffer from reduced operating budgets, which could cause them to defer or forego purchases of our products or services. Continued challenging economic conditions in many of our markets, or a reduction in information technology spending even if economic conditions improve, could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles, lower prices for our products and services, material default rates among our customers, reduced sales of our products and services and lower or no growth. Risks Relating to Our International Operations Our international operations involve inherent risks, such as foreign currency fluctuations and compliance with various regulatory and tax regimes. Most of our revenues are derived from international operations that are conducted in local currencies as well as dollars. Changes in the value of such local currencies or the dollar relative to such local currencies may affect our financial position and results of operations. Gains and losses on translations to dollars of assets and liabilities may contribute to fluctuations in our financial position and results of operations. In certain locations, we engage in currency-hedging transactions intended to reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our financial position and results of operations. However, there can be no assurance that any such hedging transaction will materially reduce the effect of fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates on such results. In addition, if for any reason exchange or price controls or other restrictions on the conversion of foreign currencies were imposed, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. Other potential risks that may impact our international business activities include the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and changes in regulatory requirements, although such factors have not had a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations to date. We face currency exchange risks, as changes in exchange rates between the US dollar and other currencies, especially the NIS, may negatively impact our earnings. Exchange rate fluctuations between the US dollar and other currencies which we and our subsidiaries use, especially the NIS, may negatively affect our earnings. A significant portion of our expenses, including research and development, personnel and facilities-related expenses, are incurred in Israel, in NIS. Consequently, we are particularly exposed to the risk of appreciation of the NIS in relation to the US dollar. This appreciation would cause an increase in our expenses as recorded in our US dollar denominated financial statements even if the expenses denominated in local currencies remains unchanged. In addition, our level of revenues and profits may be adversely affected by exchange rate fluctuations. 9 The depreciation of the NIS in relation to the U.S. Dollar in 2011 and the exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. Dollar and other currencies which we and our subsidiaries use, did not cause any significant change in our foreign currency translation differences. We cannot predict any future trends in the US dollar/ NIS exchange rate or the US dollar/GBP exchange rate. We cannot assure you that we will not be materially affected in the future by currency exchange rate fluctuations. See Item 11- "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk - Foreign Currency Risk." Conducting business in Israel entails certain inherent risks that could harm our business. Our corporate headquarters and research and development facilities are located in the State of Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. We could be adversely affected by any major hostilities involving Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. In addition, several countries still restrict business with Israel and with companies doing business in Israel. These political, economic and military conditions in Israel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth. Despite the progress towards peace between Israel and its Arab neighbors, the future of these peace efforts is uncertain and although Israel has entered into various agreements with Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, there has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity, which began in September 2000 and has continued with varying levels of severity into 2012. There was an escalation in violence among Israel, Hamas, the Palestinian Authority and other groups, as well as extensive hostilities in December 2008 and January 2009 along Israel’s border with the Gaza Strip, which resulted from missiles being fired from the Gaza Strip into Southern Israel. There were also extensive hostilities along Israel’s northern border with Lebanon in the summer of 2006. Ongoing and revived hostilities or other Israeli political or economic factors could harm our operations and cause our revenues to decrease. Any future armed conflict, political instability or violence in the region, including acts of terrorism, may have a negative effect on our business condition, harm our results of operations and adversely affect our share price. Some of our employees in Israel are obligated to perform military reserve duty, currently consisting of approximately 30 days of service annually (or more for reserves officers or citizens with certain occupations). Additionally, they are subject to being called to active duty at any time upon the outbreak of hostilities. While we have operated effectively under these requirements since the establishment of Sapiens, no assessment can be made as to the full impact of such requirements on our business or work force and no prediction can be made as to the effect on us of any expansion of such obligations. 10 Risks Related to an Investment in our Common Shares Our Common Shares are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our Common Shares are traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market and the TASE. Trading in our Common Shares on these markets is in different currencies (US dollars on the NASDAQ Capital Market and NIS on the TASE), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the U.S. and Israel). The trading prices of our Common Shares on these two markets may differ due to these and other factors. Any decrease in the trading price of our Common Shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our Common Shares on the other market. There is limited trading volume for our Common Shares, which causes the stock price to be volatile and which may lead to losses by investors. There is limited trading volume for our Common Shares, both on the NASDAQ Capital Market and the TASE. As a result, our Common Shares have experienced significant market price volatility in the past and may experience significant market price and volume fluctuations in the future, in response to factors such as announcements of developments related to our business, announcements by competitors, quarterly fluctuations in our financial results and general conditions in the industry in which we compete. Formula Systems (1985) Ltd. and its parent company, Asseco, may exercise control and influence corporate actions in a manner that potentially conflicts with our other public shareholders and our election of “controlled company” status as a basis for exempting ourselves from certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements may remove certain potential checks on such shareholders’ control of our company. Formula Systems (1985) Ltd. (“Formula”), whose ADRs trade on the NASDAQ Global Market (under the trading symbol: FORTY) and whose shares trade on the TASE (under the trading symbol: FORT), directly owned as of March 1, 2012 approximately 52% of our outstanding Common Shares. Asseco Poland SA, whose shares trade on the Warsaw Stock Exchange ("Asseco"), directly owns 51.7% of Formula's outstanding share capital. Asseco, through Formula, is and may continue to be in a position to exercise control over most matters requiring shareholder approval. While Formula currently has only one representative on our Board of Directors, Formula may nevertheless in the future use its share ownership or representation on our Board of Directors to substantially influence corporate actions that conflict with the interests of our other public shareholders including, without limitation, changing the size and composition of our Board of Directors and committees of our Board of Directors, causing the issuance of further securities, amending our governing documents or otherwise controlling the outcome of shareholder votes. Furthermore, our exemption from certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements as a “controlled company” of which greater than 50% of the voting power is held by a group (i.e., Asseco and Formula) and the determination to opt out of these NASDAQ corporate governance requirements as permitted for a foreign private issuer, may have the effect of removing potential checks on Asseco’s and Formula’s control over our company. As a result of such election, we are not required to comply with the following NASDAQ Listing Rule requirements: maintenance of a majority of independent directors on our board of directors; selection of director nominees by a wholly independent nominating committee of the board or a majority of our independent directors; adoption of a written charter or board resolution addressing the director nominations process; determination of our executive officers’ compensation by an independent compensation committee or a majority of our independent directors; and shareholder approval for certain matters. Our exemption from these requirements could strengthen Asseco’s and Formula’s control over our board of directors and management. See Item 6.C below “Board Practices— NASDAQ Exemptions for a Controlled Company” and “Board Practices— NASDAQ Opt-Out for a Foreign Private Issuer”. 11 Furthermore, actions by Formula with respect to the disposition of the Common Shares it beneficially owns, or the perception that such actions may occur, may adversely affect the trading price of our Common Shares. If we are classified as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. Generally, if for any taxable year, after applying certain look-through rules, 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of the value of our assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Passive income for this purpose generally includes, among other things, certain dividends, interest, royalties, rental and gains from commodities and securities transactions and from the sale or exchange of property that gives rise to passive income. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to our shareholders who are U.S. taxpayers, including having gain realized on the sale of our Common Shares being treated as ordinary income rather than capital gain income, and could result in punitive interest charges being applied to such sales proceeds. Rules similar to those applicable to dispositions apply to amounts treated as “excess distributions.” We believe we were not a PFIC in 2011 just as we believe we were not a PFIC for at least the past 5 years. We currently expect that we will not be a PFIC in 2011. However, PFIC status is determined as of the end of the taxable year and is dependent on a number of factors. Therefore, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC for the year ending December 31, 2011 or in a future taxable year. U.S. shareholders should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our Common Shares. For a discussion of how we might be characterized as a PFIC and related tax consequences, please see Item 10.E, “Additional Information – Taxation - U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations - Tax Consequences if We Are a Passive Foreign Investment Company." Item 