Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward-Looking Statements And Risk Factors This Report contains forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of Avnet. These statements are generally identified by words like “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “should,” “will,” “may,” “estimates” or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties. Avnet does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements include the following: An industry down-cycle in semiconductors could significantly affect the Company’s operating results as a large portion of our revenues comes from sales of semiconductors, which has been a highly cyclical industry. The semiconductor industry historically has experienced periodic fluctuations in product supply and demand, often associated with changes in technology and manufacturing capacity, and is generally considered to be highly cyclical. During each of the last three fiscal years, sales of semiconductors represented over 50% of the Company’s consolidated sales, and the Company’s revenues, particularly those of EM, closely follow the strength or weakness of the semiconductor market. While the semiconductor industry has strengthened recently as compared with the downturn experienced in 2001 and 2002 and industry cycles appear less volatile, it is uncertain whether this trend will continue. Future downturns in the technology industry, particularly in the semiconductor sector, could negatively affect the Company’s operating results and negatively impact the Company’s ability to maintain its current profitability levels. Failure to maintain its relationships with key suppliers could adversely affect the Company’s sales. One of the Company’s competitive strengths is the breadth and quality of the suppliers whose products the Company distributes. However, sales of products and services from one of the Company’s suppliers, IBM, accounted for approximately 14% of the Company’s consolidated sales in fiscal year 2008. Management expects 8 Table of Contents IBM products and services to continue to account for over 10% of the Company’s consolidated sales in fiscal year 2009. The Company’s contracts with its suppliers, including those with IBM, vary in duration and are generally terminable by either party at will upon notice. To the extent IBM or a group of other primary suppliers is not willing to do business with the Company in the future, the Company’s business and relationships with its customers could be materially and adversely affected because its customers depend on the Company’s distribution of electronic components and computer products from the industry’s leading suppliers. In addition, to the extent that any of the Company’s key suppliers modifies the terms of their contracts including, without limitation, the terms regarding price protection, rights of return, rebates or other terms that protect the Company’s gross margins, it could materially and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Declines in the value of the Company’s inventory or unexpected order cancellations by the Company’s customers could materially, adversely affect its business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. The electronic components and computer products industries are subject to rapid technological change, new and enhanced products and evolving industry standards, which can contribute to a decline in value or obsolescence of inventory. During an industry and/or economic downturn, it is possible that prices will decline due to an oversupply of products and, as a result of the price declines, there may be greater risk of declines in inventory value. Although it is the policy of many of the Company’s suppliers to offer distributors like Avnet certain protections from the loss in value of inventory (such as price protection, limited rights of return and rebates), the Company cannot be assured that such return policies and rebates will fully compensate us for the loss in value, or that the vendors will choose to, or be able to, honor such agreements, some of which are not documented and therefore subject to the discretion of the vendor. In addition, the Company’s sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders, and the Company generally does not have long-term supply arrangements with its customers. Generally, the Company’s customers may cancel orders 30 days prior to shipment with minimal penalties. The Company cannot be assured that unforeseen new product developments, declines in the value of the Company’s inventory or unforeseen order cancellations by its customers will not materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity, or that the Company will successfully manage its existing and future inventories. Substantial defaults by the Company’s customers on its accounts receivable or the loss of significant customers could have a significant negative impact on the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. A significant portion of the Company’s working capital consists of accounts receivable from customers. If customers responsible for a significant amount of accounts receivable were to become insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for products and services, or were to become unwilling or unable to make payments in a timely manner, the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity could be adversely affected. An economic or industry downturn could adversely and materially affect the servicing of these accounts receivable, which could result in longer payment cycles, increased collection costs and defaults in excess of management’s expectations. A significant deterioration in the Company’s ability to collect on accounts receivable could also impact the cost or availability of financing under its accounts receivable securitization program (see Financing Transactions appearing in Item 7 of this Report). The electronics component and computer industries are highly competitive and if the Company cannot effectively compete, its revenues may decline. The market for the Company’s products and services is very competitive and subject to rapid technological advances. Not only does the Company compete with other global distributors, it also competes for customers with regional distributors and some of the Company’s own suppliers. The Company’s failure to maintain and enhance its competitive position could adversely affect its business and prospects. Furthermore, the Company’s efforts to compete in the marketplace could cause deterioration of gross profit margins and, thus, overall profitability. The sizes of the Company’s competitors vary across market sectors, as do the resources the Company has allocated to the sectors in which it does business. Therefore, some of the competitors may have greater financial, 9 Table of Contents personnel, capacity and other resources or a more extensive customer base than the Company has in one or more of its market sectors. The Company’s non-U.S. locations represent a significant and growing portion of its revenue, and consequently, the Company is increasingly exposed to risks associated with operating internationally. During fiscal year 2008, 2007 and 2006, approximately 52%, 50% and 49%, respectively, of the Company’s sales came from its operations outside the United States. Most notable in this growth of non-U.S. sales is the increasing volume of sales activity in the Asia region, which accounted for approximately 19% of consolidated sales during fiscal year 2008. As a result of the Company’s foreign sales and locations, those in emerging and developing economies in particular, the Company’s operations are subject to a variety of risks that are specific to international operations, including, but not limited to, the following: • potential restrictions on the Company’s ability to repatriate funds from its foreign subsidiaries; • foreign currency fluctuations and the impact on the Company’s reported results of operations of the translation of the foreign currencies to U.S. dollars; • import and export duties and value-added taxes; • compliance with foreign and domestic import and export regulations and anti-corruption laws, the failure of which could result in severe penalties including monetary fines, criminal proceedings and suspension of export privileges; • changing tax laws and regulations; • political instability, terrorism and potential military conflicts; • inflexible employee contracts in the event of business downturns; and • the risk of non-compliance with local laws. While the Company has and will continue to adopt measures to reduce the impact of losses resulting from volatile currencies and other risks of doing business abroad, the Company cannot be assured that such measures will be adequate or that its financial results will not be materially impacted as a result of increased costs of doing business in those countries. The Company’s acquisition strategy may not produce the expected benefits, which may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Avnet historically has pursued a strategic acquisition program to grow its global markets for electronic and computer products. That program has enabled Avnet to solidify and maintain its leadership position in the market place. During fiscal 2008 and through the date of this filing, Avnet has completed ten acquisitions. Risks and uncertainties are inherent in the mergers and acquisition process in that such activities may divert management’s attention from existing business operations. In addition, the Company may not be successful in integrating the acquired businesses or the integration may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than anticipated. Consequently, the Company may experience disruptions that could have a material adverse effect on its business. Furthermore, the Company may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from its acquisitions, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial performance. If the Company fails to maintain effective internal controls, it may not be able to report its financial results accurately or timely or detect fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business or stock price. Effective internal controls are necessary for the Company to provide reasonable assurance with respect to its financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If the Company cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to its financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, its brand and operating results could be harmed. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Company is required to furnish a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Internal control over 10 Table of Contents financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls cannot provide absolute assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If the Company fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if the Company experiences difficulties in their implementation, the Company’s business and operating results could be harmed, and the Company could fail to meet its reporting obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on its business and the share price. If the Company’s internal information systems fail to function properly, or if the Company is unsuccessful in the integration or upgrade of information systems, its business operations could suffer. The Company’s expanding operations put increasing reliance on the Company’s internal information systems in producing timely, accurate and reliable reports on financial and operational results. Currently, the Company’s global operations are tracked with multiple internal information systems, some of which are subject to on-going IT projects designed to streamline or optimize its global information systems. There is no guarantee that the Company will be successful at all times or that there will not be integration difficulties that will adversely affect the Company’s operations or the accurate recording and reporting of financial data. In addition, these systems are subject to computer hacking or other general system failure. Maintaining and operating these systems requires continuous investments. Failure of any of these internal information systems or material difficulties in upgrading these information systems could have material adverse effects on the Company’s business and its compliance with securities laws. Major disruptions to the Company’s logistics capability could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s operations. The Company’s global logistics services are operated through specialized and centralized distribution centers around the globe. The Company also depends almost entirely on third party transportation service providers for the delivery of products to its customers. A major interruption or disruption in service at one or more of our distribution centers for any reason (such as natural disasters, pandemics, or significant disruptions of services from our third party providers) could cause cancellations or delays in a significant number of shipments to customers and, as a result, could have a severe impact on the Company’s business, operations and financial performance. The Company may not have adequate or cost-effective liquidity or capital resources. The Company’s ability to satisfy its cash needs depends on its ability to generate cash from operations and to access the financial markets, both of which are subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond the Company’s control. The Company may need to satisfy its cash needs through external financing. However, external financing may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. As of June 28, 2008, Avnet had total debt outstanding of $1.23 billion under various notes and committed and uncommitted lines of credit with financial institutions. The Company needs cash to make interest payments on, and to refinance, this indebtedness and for general corporate purposes, such as funding its ongoing working capital and capital expenditure needs. Under the terms of any external financing, the Company may incur higher than expected financing expenses and become subject to additional restrictions and covenants. Any material increase in the Company’s financing costs could have a material adverse effect on its profitability. Under some of its various credit facilities, the Company is required to maintain certain specified financial ratios and meet certain tests. If the Company fails to meet these financial ratios and tests, it may be unable to continue to utilize these facilities. If the Company could not continue to utilize these facilities, it may not have sufficient cash available to make interest payments on and refinance indebtedness and for general corporate needs. 11 Table of Contents The agreements governing some of the Company’s financings contain various covenants and restrictions that limit the discretion of management in operating its business and could prevent us from engaging in some activities that may be beneficial to the Company’s business. The agreements governing the Company’s financing, including its five-year, $500 million credit facility and the indentures governing the Company’s outstanding notes, contain various covenants and restrictions that, in certain circumstances, limit the Company’s ability and the ability of certain subsidiaries to: • grant liens on assets; • make restricted payments (including paying dividends on capital stock or redeeming or repurchasing capital stock); • make investments; • merge, consolidate or transfer all or substantially all of the Company’s assets; • incur additional debt; or • engage in certain transactions with affiliates. As a result of these covenants and restrictions, the Company may be limited in how it conducts its business and may be unable to raise additional debt, compete effectively or make investments. In addition to the specific factors described above, general economic or business conditions, domestic and foreign, may be less favorable than management expected and, if such conditions persist in a sustained period of time, could eventually adversely impact the Company’s sales or the Company’s ability to collect receivables from some of its customers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 