ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors The following risk factors, while not intended to be all inclusive, could individually or in combination have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and market price of our common stock. Competition - Our business segments operate in highly competitive areas which are subject to continual change. New health care providers entering the market may reduce our market share, patient volume and growth rates. Additionally, increased competitive pressures may require us to commit more resources to our marketing efforts, thereby increasing our cost structure and impacting our profitability. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with our current competitors. Nor can there be assurance that additional competitors will not enter the market, or that such competition will not make it more difficult for us to enter into additional contracts with fertility clinics or open profitable vein care clinics. Alternative treatments - In addition to the services provided by our clinics, alternative treatments are available to patients with infertility and vein care issues. To the extent that these treatments are successful, or perceived as viable alternatives by prospective patients, our ability to attract and retain patients may be impacted. Management turnover - The success of our business strategy depends upon the continued contribution of key members of our management team. The loss of key members of this team may adversely affect our ability to implement that strategy. Cost containment measures and general healthcare reform - Cost containment measures instituted by healthcare insurers and any general healthcare reform could affect our ability to receive revenue from the use of our services. We cannot predict the effect of future legislation or regulation concerning the healthcare industry and third-party coverage on our business. In addition, fundamental reforms in the healthcare industry continue to be considered, however we cannot predict if any such reforms will be adopted and what impact these proposals might have on the demand for our services. Contract termination - One or more of our fertility Partner practices may terminate their membership in our fertility network. Such an occurrence could significantly reduce our revenues without a corresponding reduction in our cost structure. Physician resignation - The departure of one or more key medical providers may negatively impact the ability of a clinic to generate sufficient revenues and remain profitable. Third-party payers - A significant portion of our fertility partner and vein clinic revenue depends upon reimbursements to the underlying physician practices from third-party payers. These third parties include government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health 13 maintenance organizations. Third parties are systematically challenging prices charged for medical treatment. They may deny reimbursement if they determine that a prescribed treatment is not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods as determined by the payer, or is experimental, unnecessary or inappropriate. Further, although third parties may approve reimbursement, such approvals may be under terms and conditions that discourage use of our services, even if our services are safer or more effective than the alternatives. Disruption of these relationships, whether in the form of changes to reimbursement contracts, loss of reimbursement contracts, solvency issues on the part of the payers, or in the case of our vein clinics, changes in Medicare reimbursement, may lower our revenues and therefore affect our cash flows and financial position. Reliance on third party vendors - Our fertility and vein care clinics rely on a limited number of third-party vendors that produce medications and supplies vital to patient treatment. Should any of these vendors experience a supply shortage, it may have an adverse impact on our operations. To date, no shortage or disruption has been experienced. State and Federal laws - Our business practices may be found to be in violation of State or Federal laws. These include, but are not limited to, Federal and State Anti-Kickback Laws, Federal and State Self-Referral Laws, Federal Stark Law, False Claim Laws, Federal and State Controlled Substances laws, HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act) regulations, Medicare regulations and Anti-Trust Laws. Remedial efforts could result in a discontinuance of portions of our business or burdensome compliance efforts. The laws and regulations in this area are extremely complex and subject to interpretation. Many aspects of our business have not been the subject of federal or state regulatory review. Accordingly, there is no assurance that our operations have been in compliance at all times with all such laws and regulations. In addition, there is no assurance that a court or regulatory authority will not determine that our past, current or future operations violate applicable laws or regulations. If our operations were determined to violate laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, state corporate practice of medicine laws vary from state to state. There can be no assurance that these laws will be interpreted in a manner consistent with our practices or that other laws or regulations will not be enacted in the future that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Corporate practice of medicine laws - Our operations may also be subject to state laws relating to the corporate practice of medicine. State laws may be interpreted to prohibit corporations other than medical professional corporations or associations from practicing medicine or exercising control over physicians, and may prohibit physicians from practicing medicine in partnership with, or as employees of, any person not licensed to practice medicine. State laws may also contain fee-splitting prohibitions or may prevent corporations from acquiring the goodwill of a medical practice. We believe that our operations are in material compliance with all applicable state laws relating to the corporate practice of medicine. We perform only non-medical administrative services, and in some circumstances, clinical laboratory services. In each of our clinical locations, a medical practice is the sole employer of the physicians, and the director of the medical practice retains the full authority to direct the medical, professional and ethical aspects of patient care. Liability insurance - Providing health care services entails a substantial risk of medical malpractice and similar claims. While we do not engage in the practice of medicine, or assume responsibility for compliance with regulatory requirements directly applicable to physicians, we do require our affiliated medical practices to maintain medical malpractice insurance. However, in the event that services provided at one of our centers results in injury or other adverse effects, we are likely to be named as a party in any legal proceeding. Although we currently maintain liability insurance that we believe is adequate, successful malpractice claims could exceed the limits of our insurance and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain such insurance on commercially reasonable terms in the future or that such insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential claims. In addition, a malpractice claim asserted against us could be costly to defend, could consume management resources and could adversely affect our reputation and business, regardless of the merit or eventual outcome of such claim. In addition, in connection with our acquisition of the assets of fertility centers, we may also assume some of the center's liabilities. Therefore, an entity may assert claims against us for events related to the fertility center prior to its becoming a Partner practice. We maintain insurance coverage related to these risks that we believe is adequate as to the risks and amounts, although there is no assurance that any successful claims will not exceed applicable policy limits. A portion of our insurance coverage is provided by a captive insurance company, therefore the availability of coverage, should it be needed, is subject to a host of risks. Intellectual property risks - Trade secrets and other proprietary information which are not protected by patents are critical to our business. We 14 attempt to protect our trade secrets by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, third parties and consultants. However, these agreements can be breached. Even if we prove the breach, there may not be adequate remedy available to us. Technology risks - The treatment of infertility and varicose veins are technologically intensive areas of medicine. There is no guarantee that our investments in medical technology will remain at the level of sophistication necessary for our clinics to remain competitive in the marketplace. Impairment risks - We have recorded intangible assets related to our Business Service agreements and Vein Clinic acquisition. The value of these intangible assets is supported by the operating results of the underlying business unit. To the extent the operating results of the business unit(s) may become permanently impaired we may need to write-down the value of these assets against earnings in the period of impairment. Tax positions - Our tax positions and tax returns are subject to routine review by Federal and State authorities. While we believe that our tax positions are in compliance with all applicable Federal and State tax laws, there can be no assurance that these laws will be interpreted in a manner consistent with our positions. Financial results - Our quarterly results and stock price may fluctuate over time based on our business risk factors, seasonal influences, market expectations or other factors over which we have limited control. Other environmental financial factors over which we have limited or no control but which may impact our operations include the stability of the underlying financial system, health of the credit markets and government fiscal and monetary policies. In addition changes to financial variables over which we do exercise some control, such as dividend policy, stock dilution, banking and credit facilities, etc., may be perceived differently by different stakeholders, and thereby influence our stock price. Compliance with debt covenants - Our term loan agreement with the bank requires that we maintain certain leverage and fixed charge ratios and minimum levels of EBITDA. The agreement also contains customary covenants related to dividends, acquisitions and additional indebtedness. There is no guarantee that we will ccontinue to achieve compliance with these requirements. Macroeconomic Events - Recent worldwide events in the financial and credit markets have reduced the availability of liquidity and credit to fund the operation and expansion of many business operations. This shortage of liquidity and credit, combined with recent substantial losses in worldwide equity markets, could lead to a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to access the capital markets may be severely restricted at a time when we may have need, to access those markets, which could have a negative impact on our growth plans, our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions, and our ability to refinance existing debt. The financial and credit crisis could also have an impact on the lenders under our credit facilities, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. In addition, our levels of elective procedures and our ability to collect accounts receivable, due to the effects of higher unemployment and reductions in commercial managed care enrollment, may be materially impacted if the current economic environment continues. Failure to successfully integrate acquisitions - The integration of an acquired company is an intricate and complicated task. Merging two cultures and sets of operating procedures to achieve the synergies envisioned at the outset of the transaction requires significant manpower and resources. There is no guarantee that we will be able to achieve the accretive earning potential of any acquisition. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We believe that we have complied with all the requests of the SEC staff in this filing, but have not yet received the "no further comment" communications. 