ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors The following risk factors, while not intended to be all inclusive, could individually or in combination have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and market price of our common stock. Competition - Our industry is highly competitive and subject to continual change. New health care providers entering the market may reduce our market share, patient volume and growth rates. Additionally, increased competitive pressures may require us to commit more resources to our marketing efforts, thereby increasing our cost structure and impacting our profitability. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with our current competitors. Nor can there be assurance that additional competitors will not enter the market, or that such competition will not make it more difficult for us to enter into Affiliate or FertilityPartner contracts. Alternative treatments - In addition to the services provided by our clinics, alternative treatments are available to patients with infertility issues. To the extent that these treatments are successful, or perceived as viable alternatives by prospective patients, our ability to attract and retain patients may be impacted. Supply disruptions - Our industry relies on a relatively few number of manufacturers of specialty fertility equipment. A disruption on the part of an equipment provider may render the medical providers within our network without the means to treat patients. Management turnover - The success of our business strategy depends upon the continued contribution of key members of our management team. The loss of key members of this team may adversely affect our ability to implement that strategy. Third-party payors - A significant portion of our FertilityPartners revenue depends upon reimbursements from third-party payors. Disruption of this relationship, whether in the form of changes to reimbursement contracts or solvency issues on the part of the payors, may lower our Service fees and therefore affect our cash flows and financial position. Reliance on third party vendors - Our pharmaceutical sales and fertility clinics are dependent on a limited number of third-party vendors that produce medications vital to treating infertility. Should any of these vendors experience a supply shortage, it may have an adverse impact on the operations of our pharmaceutical sales and our network members. To date, no shortage or disruption has been experienced. State and Federal laws - Our business practices may be found to be in violation of State or Federal laws. These include, but are not limited to, Federal and State Anti-Kickback Laws, Federal and State Self-Referral Laws, False Claim Laws, Federal and State Controlled Substances laws, HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act) regulations and Anti-Trust Laws. Remedial efforts could result in a discontinuance of portions of our business or burdensome compliance efforts. The laws and regulations in this area are extremely complex and subject to interpretation and many aspects our business have not been the subject of federal or state regulatory review. Accordingly, there is no assurance that our operations have been in compliance at all times with all such laws and regulations. In addition, there is no assurance that a court or regulatory authority will not determine that our past, current or future operations violate applicable laws or regulations. If our operations were determined to violate laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, state corporate practice of medical laws vary from state to state. There can be no assurance that these laws will be interpreted in a manner consistent with our practices or that other laws or regulations will not be enacted in the future that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Corporate practice of medicine laws - Our operations may also be subject to state laws relating to the corporate practice of medicine. State laws may prohibit corporations other than medical professional corporations or 9 associations from practicing medicine or exercising control over physicians, and may prohibit physicians from practicing medicine in partnership with, or as employees of, any person not licensed to practice medicine. State laws may also contain fee-splitting prohibitions or may prevent corporations from acquiring the goodwill of a medical practice. We believe that our operations are in material compliance with all applicable state laws relating to the corporate practice of medicine. We perform only non-medical administrative services, and in some circumstances, clinical laboratory services. In each FertilityPartner agreement, the fertility center is the sole employer of the physicians, and the fertility center retains the full authority to direct the medical, professional and ethical aspects of its medical practice. Liability insurance - Providing health care services entails a substantial risk of medical malpractice and similar claims. While we do not engage in the practice of medicine, or assume responsibility for compliance with regulatory requirements directly applicable to physicians, we do require our fertility centers to maintain medical malpractice insurance. However, in the event that services provided at one of our fertility centers results in injury or other adverse effects, we are likely to be named as a party in any legal proceeding. Although we currently maintain liability insurance that we believe is adequate, successful malpractice claims could exceed the limits of our insurance and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain such insurance on commercially reasonable terms in the future or that such insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential claims. In addition, a malpractice claim asserted against us could be costly to defend, could consume management resources and could adversely affect our reputation and business, regardless of the merit or eventual outcome of such claim. In addition, in connection with our acquisition of the assets of a fertility centers, we may also assume some of the center's liabilities. Therefore, an entity may assert claims against us for events related to the fertility center prior to its becoming a FertilityPartner. We maintain insurance coverage related to these risks that we believe is adequate as to the risks and amounts, although there is no assurance that any successful claims will not exceed applicable policy limits. Contract termination - One or more of our FertilityPartner practices may terminate their membership in our network. Such an occurrence would significantly reduce our revenues without a corresponding reduction in our cost structure. Physician resignation - The departure of one or more key medical providers may negatively impact the ability of our FertilityPartners to generate sufficient revenues. A reduction in FertilityPartner revenue would reduce our revenues and may require us to advance funds to the fertility center. Technology risks - The treatment of infertility is a technologically intensive area of medicine. There is no guarantee that our investments in fertility technology will remain at the level of sophistication necessary for our clinics to remain competitive in the marketplace. Financial results - Our quarterly results and stock price may fluctuate over time based on our business risk factors, seasonal influences, market expectations or other factors over which we have limited control. In addition changes to financial variables over which we do exercise some control, such as dividend policy, stock dilution, banking and credit facilities, etc., may be perceived differently by different stakeholders, and thereby influence our stock price. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 