ITEM 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS In evaluating our business, every investor should carefully consider the following risks. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the following risks. The loss of one or more of our Partner fertility centers would lead to a decline in our revenues and profit. The contracts that we enter into with our Partner fertility centers typically have terms that range from 10 to 25 years and contain automatic renewal provisions. Some of these agreements also contain provisions that allow the Partner fertility center to terminate the agreement, upon 12 months’ prior notice, at any time after five years from the agreement’s effective date. Our two largest Partner fertility centers provided approximately 46% of our Fertility Centers Division revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009. If either of these Partner fertility centers, or any of our other Partner fertility centers, were to terminate its agreement with us, we would lose all of the revenues associated with such Partner fertility center, but would not experience any meaningful reduction in our infrastructure costs. We may not be able to find suitable Partner candidates or successfully integrate the operations of the fertility centers with which we enter into Partner contracts. A key part of our business strategy is to enter into additional Partner contracts. We cannot assure you that we will be able to find suitable Partner candidates or that the fertility centers that we enter into Partner contracts with will be successful. Even if suitable Partner candidates are identified, negotiation over suitable terms and conditions may be protracted and unsuccessful, and we may not be able to achieve planned increases in the number of Partner centers. Further, achieving the anticipated benefits of current and possible future Partner contracts will depend in part upon whether we can integrate the operations of those fertility centers with our operations in a timely and cost-effective manner. The process of integrating the operations of Partner fertility centers with our operations is complex, expensive and time consuming and involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • difficulties in integrating or retaining key medical providers of the Partner fertility center; • difficulties in integrating the operations of the Partner fertility center, such as information technology resources and financial and operational data; • diversion of our management’s attention; and • potential incompatibility of cultures. We are dependent on the medical providers in our fertility centers and vein clinics to successfully execute our business strategy. Although we manage our fertility centers and vein clinics, the medical providers at those centers and clinics provide medical services directly to patients and we do not have control over their medical activities. We cannot guarantee any medical provider’s ability to generate positive patient outcomes, build a positive reputation for their practice or to comply with our expectations. If the medical providers in our fertility centers and vein clinics act negligently or unethically, allow their medical practices to deteriorate or do not meet our growth expectations, it could diminish the value of our brand and our results of operations could be adversely affected. 22 We may have difficulty attracting and retaining physicians for our fertility centers and vein clinics. A key part of our business strategy is to enter into additional Partner contracts and open new vein clinics. The success of our fertility centers is dependent upon our ability to retain the key medical providers associated with those centers. If one or more key medical providers were to depart from a fertility center, our business could suffer. Our ability to open new vein clinics is dependent upon identifying, recruiting and retaining qualified physicians to perform procedures at these clinics. We have had difficulties staffing new vein clinics because some third-party payors require that the physicians performing procedures at these clinics have certain specified credentials. We will not be able to implement successfully our business strategy if we are unable to properly staff our fertility centers and vein clinics. A reduction in reimbursements or an inability to negotiate attractive reimbursement rates from third-party payors for the services that our Partner centers or vein clinics provide could adversely affect our revenues and growth. A significant portion of our fertility Partner and vein clinic revenues depends on reimbursements to the underlying physician practices from third-party payors. These third parties include private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations, as well as government authorities. Third parties are systematically challenging prices charged for medical treatment. A third-party payor may deny or reduce reimbursement if it determines that a prescribed treatment is not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the payor, or is experimental, unnecessary or inappropriate. In addition, although third parties may approve reimbursement, such approvals may be under terms and conditions that discourage use of our services, even if those services are safer or more effective than alternative services. A reduction in reimbursements from third-party payors, whether in the form of changes to reimbursement contracts, such as by limiting reimbursement for certain procedures to specialists, loss of reimbursement contracts, solvency issues on the part of the payors, or in the case of our vein clinics, changes in Medicare reimbursement, would cause patients to reduce their treatments or obtain services from other providers and could reduce our revenues and profitability. Our ability to profitably open vein clinics in new markets also significantly depends on our ability to obtain attractive reimbursement rates from third-party payors in those new markets. If we are unable to obtain satisfactory reimbursement rates from third-party payors for vein clinics in new markets, our growth would suffer. In early 2009, one of our top fertility centers in the Midwest terminated a reimbursement contract with an important third-party payor. Contribution from this fertility center in 2008 was approximately $2.3 million and this third-party payor represented approximately 20% of this contribution, or $460,000. Health care reform could impact the demand for our services. There are currently numerous proposals on the federal and state levels for comprehensive reforms relating to health care that could affect payment and reimbursement for health care services in the United States. The U.S. Congress is considering legislation that could dramatically overhaul the health care system, including the possibility of a government health care plan. We cannot predict whether any such reforms will ultimately be adopted or the impact that such reforms may have on the demand or payment for our services. Because our Attain IVF programs are self-pay programs for patients that do not have insurance coverage for fertility treatments, health care reform that increases insurance coverage for fertility treatments could lead to a decrease in demand for our Attain IVF programs. We face competition from existing providers, as well as new providers entering our markets. Our business divisions operate in highly competitive areas. Our fertility centers compete with national, regional and local physician practice fertility centers, hospitals and university medical centers, some of which have programs that compete with our Attain IVF programs. Our fertility centers may also compete with fertility centers located outside of the United States, due to the self-pay nature of IVF treatment. Our vein clinics compete with other vein care clinic providers, dermatologist and surgical clinics that provide ELT and sclerotherapy as an ancillary offering, vascular surgeons and interventional radiologists. Barriers to entry in the vein care industry are low. New health care providers 23 that enter our markets impact our market share, patient volume and growth rates. Increased competitive pressures require us to commit resources to marketing efforts, which impacts our margins and profitability. There can be no assurance that our fertility centers or vein clinics will be able to compete effectively with existing providers in our markets or that new competitors will not enter into our markets. These existing and new competitors may have greater financial and other resources than we or our fertility centers or vein clinics do. Increased competition could also make it more difficult for us to expand our business by entering into new contracts with fertility centers or opening new vein clinics. The development of alternative treatments could diminish demand for our services. The fertility and vein care industries are dynamic, and new, technologically intensive treatments are constantly under development. New treatments that are more effective or provide better reimbursement could decrease patient demand or profitability for the treatments that our fertility centers or vein clinics currently offer. If our fertility centers or vein clinics do not adopt new treatments as they are developed, patients could seek treatment elsewhere. If we are found not to be in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to significant fines or penalties, be forced to curtail certain of our operations or rearrange material agreements to our detriment. We, and each of our fertility centers and vein clinics, are subject to numerous federal and state laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, federal and state anti-kickback laws, controlled substances laws, the federal Stark law and state self-referral laws, false claims laws, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), Medicare and Medicaid regulations and laws regulating the business of insurance. These laws and regulations are extremely complex and could be subject to various interpretations. Our fertility centers and vein clinics are also subject to these statutes, but we do not oversee, nor are we responsible for, their compliance with these laws. Many aspects of our business, to date, have not been the subject of federal or state regulatory review and we, and any of our fertility centers or vein clinics, may not have been in compliance at all times with all applicable laws and regulations. If we, or our fertility centers or vein clinics, are found by a court or regulatory authority to have violated any applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to significant fines or penalties or be forced to curtail certain of our operations. Further, the laws of many states prohibit physicians from splitting fees with non-physicians, or other physicians, and prohibit non-physician entities from practicing medicine. These laws vary from state to state and are enforced by the courts and by regulatory authorities with broad discretion. Many aspects of our business, to date, have not been the subject of judicial or regulatory interpretation; thus, a review of our business by courts or regulatory authorities may result in determinations that could adversely affect our operations. In addition, the health care regulatory environment could change so as to restrict our existing operations or their expansion. State corporate practice of medicine laws may be interpreted as prohibiting corporations or associations from exercising control over physicians or employing nurse practitioners or physician assistants and may prohibit physicians from practicing medicine in partnership with, or as employees of, any person not licensed to practice medicine. State regulators may seek to challenge the arrangements that we have with our fertility centers and vein clinics. A determination in any state that we are engaged in the corporate practice of medicine or any unlawful fee-splitting arrangement could render any management agreement between us and a practice located in such state unenforceable or subject to modification, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Regulatory authorities or other parties may assert that we are or a practice is engaged in the corporate practice of medicine or that the management fees paid to us by the managed practices constitute unlawful fee-splitting or the corporate practice of medicine. If such a claim were asserted successfully, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties, managed physicians could have restrictions imposed upon their licenses to practice medicine, parts or all of our existing management agreements could be rendered unenforceable and we could be required to restructure our contractual arrangements with the managed practices, all of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we view our Attain IVF programs as a guaranty or warranty of our fertility centers’ performance, the Attain IVF programs have several characteristics that are present in an insurance contract. As such, an insurance regulator in a particular state may find that we have been and are engaged in the business of insurance without a license, which could subject us to criminal and civil liabilities and would subject our Attain IVF programs to substantial 24 regulation in that state as an insurance contract, including burdensome reserve requirements. In addition, in states that prohibit physicians from splitting professional fees with non-physicians, we could be required to restructure our Attain IVF programs if a state concluded that our Attain IVF programs constituted fee splitting because we retain a portion of the payments patients pay directly to us for their medical treatment by our fertility centers. The imposition of any such liabilities and any such changes in our method of doing business would likely reduce revenues and contribution from our Consumer Services Division. Additionally, our management agreements with our vein clinics provide that the vein clinics will pay us a fee equal to 150% of our expenses of operating and managing the vein clinics. These fees have historically exceeded the operating margin generated by any particular vein clinic prior to payment of the management fee. Accordingly, each vein clinic only pays the portion of the management fee that is equal to the amount of revenue generated by the clinic annually up to the 150% amount. As a result, our vein clinics do not generate any net profits at year end. A state regulator could find that such a compensation model is actually based on a percentage of the revenue of a particular vein clinic or that our management fee is not commensurate with the services we provide, in which case our management agreements would be violating fee-splitting laws of certain states where we operate vein clinics. We could be forced to restructure the fee structure under the management agreements to our material financial detriment or the providers affiliated with our vein clinics who have been found to violate the fee-splitting statutes or regulations may be subject to disciplinary action or criminal sanctions, which could lead to the closure of one or more of our vein clinics. Our arrangements with our fertility centers and vein clinics may trigger the application of federal and various state franchise laws. We have never sought to comply with any such franchise laws, nor have we ever sought any exemptions from such laws. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission could bring an enforcement action against us for failure to comply with federal franchise laws and could impose significant fines against us, order us to pay restitution to the fertility centers and vein clinics that are found to be franchisees (and the physicians that own or operate them) and/or seek criminal sanctions against us. Under the laws of certain of the states in which we operate, the physicians that own or operate our fertility centers and vein clinics may bring private causes of actions against us for violating such laws. In many of these jurisdictions, in addition to a judgment for actual damages, a court could award the physicians rescission, attorney’s fees and costs and treble damages. Additionally, we could be subject to fines and criminal sanctions. Even if we were to comply with these federal and state franchise laws, we would still be potentially liable for prior violations that occurred prior to the time we came into compliance with such laws. New or enhanced laws and regulations affecting the fertility industry could increase our costs of compliance and force us to alter certain of our operations. A number of high profile events have occurred recently related to ART and fertility practices generally, such as the implantation of a greater than recommended number of embryos, resulting in extraordinarily high-order multiple births, or the implantation of incorrect patient embryos. Federal and state regulators may more carefully scrutinize the fertility industry as a result of these events, and may adopt more stringent laws and regulations that could increase our compliance costs or force us to alter certain of our operations. We and our Partner fertility centers and vein clinics may not have sufficient liability insurance to cover potential claims. The medical procedures performed by physicians and other medical personnel in our network of fertility centers and vein clinics can involve significant complications, including genetically defective births, embryo loss and patient death. We are likely to be, and from time to time have been, named as a party in legal proceedings involving medical malpractice or other injuries that occur at one of our fertility centers or vein clinics, particularly in those fertility centers where we provide the services of a physician assistant or nurse practitioner. A successful malpractice claim could exceed the limits of insurance that we maintain, in which case we would have to fund any settlement in excess of our insurance coverage. We also maintain medical malpractice insurance coverage for our Partner fertility centers and vein clinics, and a successful malpractice claim against one of those centers or clinics in excess of the coverage we maintain for them would adversely affect the revenues we derive from those centers and clinics. In addition, the captive insurance company that provides a portion of our insurance coverage does not maintain reserves in amounts that would be required of other, larger insurers, and therefore may not have adequate capital to fund a claim against us or the Partner fertility centers covered by the captive insurance company. A malpractice claim, whether or not successful, could be costly to defend, could consume management resources and could adversely affect our reputation and business and the reputations and businesses of our Partner fertility centers and vein clinics. We also cannot assure you that we or our Partner fertility centers or vein clinics will be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. 25 Our success depends on retaining key members of our management team. The success of our business strategy depends on the continued contribution of key members of our management team. The loss of key members of this team could disrupt our growth plans and our ability to implement our business strategy. We rely on a limited number of third-party vendors for medicine and supplies. Our fertility centers and vein clinics rely on a limited number of third-party vendors that produce medications and supplies vital to patient treatment, such as AngioDynamics, Inc., which provides the only U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved solution used in sclerotherapy. If any of these vendors were to experience a supply shortage or cease doing business, and we were unable to find an alternative third-party vendor, we might not be able to properly serve our patients. Our credit agreement contains covenants that impose restrictions on us that may limit our operating flexibility, prevent us from entering into extraordinary transactions that benefit our stockholders and limit our growth. Our credit agreement contains covenants that restrict our flexibility to conduct business. These covenants prohibit or limit, among other things: • the payment of dividends to our stockholders; • the incurrence of additional indebtedness; • the making of certain types of restricted payments and investments; • sales of assets; and • consolidations, mergers and transfers of all or substantially all of our assets. The credit agreement also requires that we maintain certain leverage and fixed charge ratios and minimum levels of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Our failure to comply with any of these covenants could cause the lenders to declare a default and accelerate amounts due to them under the credit agreement. In addition, our credit agreement places certain restrictions on our ability to acquire the business, assets or capital stock of fertility centers. For example, our credit agreement prevents us from acquiring a fertility center for a purchase price in excess of $5.5 million (increasing to $6.0 million after August 31, 2010) without the prior written consent of our lender. In addition, our credit agreement prevents us from making acquisitions of fertility centers that aggregate in excess of $11 million for the period from August 1, 2009 through July 31, 2010, or that exceed $12 million for the period after August 1, 2010. If we identify fertility centers that we want to acquire in excess of limits in our credit agreement and do not obtain the consent of our lender to those acquisitions, we may not be able to execute on our strategy. Our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could lead to inaccuracies in our reported financial results. A material weakness is a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. If our independent registered public accounting firm were to determine that a significant deficiency were to exist, or if we were otherwise unable to achieve and maintain effective internal controls on a timely basis, management would not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting for purposes of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm 26 would not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Moreover, any failure to establish and maintain effective systems of internal control and procedures may impair our ability to accurately report our financial results. Such failures and the reporting that our system of internal controls over financial reporting was not effective could result in a restatement of our financial statements and cause investors to lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decline in our stock price. We may not have adequate protection for our intellectual property rights. Trade secrets and other proprietary information not protected by patents are critical to our business. Our sole means of protecting this information is to utilize confidentiality agreements with employees, third parties and consultants. If these agreements are breached, another entity could obtain our trade secrets and proprietary information and attempt to replicate our business model, which could have an adverse effect on our business. We could be subject to additional income tax liabilities. We are subject to income taxes in various states within the United States. Judgment is often required in evaluating our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are certain transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. For example, certain taxing authorities may take the position that we are providing services in jurisdictions where our Partner fertility centers operate. The final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 