RISK FACTORS. Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks. Some of these risks are described below, and readers of this Annual Report on Form 10-K should take such risks into account in evaluating our company or making any decision to invest in us. This section does not describe all risks applicable to our company, our industry or our business, and it is intended only as a summary of material factors affecting our business. We depend upon reimbursement by third-party payors. Substantially all of our revenues are derived from private and governmental third-party payors. In 2005, approximately 78% of our revenues were derived from managed care plans, commercial health insurers, workers’ compensation payors, and other private pay revenue sources and approximately 22% of our revenues were derived from Medicare and Medicaid. Initiatives undertaken by industry and government to contain healthcare costs affect the profitability of our clinics. These payors attempt to control healthcare costs by contracting with healthcare providers to obtain services on a discounted basis. We believe that this trend will continue and may limit reimbursements for healthcare services. If insurers or managed care companies from whom we receive substantial payments were to reduce the amounts they pay for services, our profit margins may decline, or we may lose patients if we choose not to renew our contracts with these insurers at lower rates. In addition, in certain geographical areas, our clinics must be approved as providers by key health maintenance organizations and preferred provider plans. Failure to obtain or maintain these approvals would adversely affect financial results. Reimbursement rates for outpatient therapy services provided to Medicare beneficiaries are established pursuant to a fee schedule published by the Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”). Under the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, the total amount paid by Medicare in any one year for outpatient physical therapy or occupational therapy to any one patient was initially limited to $1,500, subject to annual adjustment (the “Medicare Limit”). For purposes of the Medicare Limit, the aggregate charges for outpatient physical therapy and speech language pathology incurred by one beneficiary cannot exceed the Medicare Limit. After a three-year moratorium, the Medicare Limit on therapy services was initially implemented for services rendered on or after September 1, 2003. The Medicare Limit for fiscal year 2003 was adjusted up to $1,590 (the “Adjusted Medicare Limit”). Effective December 8, 2003, a second moratorium was placed on the Adjusted Medicare Limit for the remainder of 2003 and for years 2004 and 2005. Under the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, the Adjusted Medicare Limit was reinstated effective as of January 1, 2006. Outpatient therapy services rendered to Medicare beneficiaries by the Company’s therapists will be subject to the cap, except to the extent these services are rendered pursuant to certain management and professional services agreements with inpatient facilities, in which case the caps would not apply. The Medicare Limit for 2006 is $1,740 subject to an exception policy created by CMS, as more fully defined in the February 15, 2006 Medicare Fact Sheet. In summary, the exception process allows for automatic and manual exceptions to the Medicare Cap for medically necessary services. The exception process specified diagnosis that qualifies for an automatic exception to the therapy caps, if the condition or complexity has a direct and significant impact on the course of therapy being provided and the additional treatment is medically necessary. The exception process further provides that manual exceptions may be granted if the condition or complexity does not allow for an automatic exception, but is believed to require medically necessary services. In the absence of an exemption, patients who are impacted by the cap may choose to pay out of their own pockets for services in excess of the cap, it is assumed that the cap will result in some amount of lost revenues to the Company. Any such negative impact on the Company’s revenue could potentially be mitigated by more marketing efforts to non-Medicare sources or through staffing reductions. If such negative impact is not mitigated, the 2006 Medicare Limit could have an adverse impact on 2006 net income. For a further description of this and other laws and regulations involving governmental reimbursements, see “Business — Sources of Revenue” and “— Regulation and Healthcare Reform” in Item 1. 5 Table of Contents We depend upon the cultivation and maintenance of relationships with the physicians in our markets. Our success is dependent upon referrals from physicians in the communities our clinics serve and our ability to maintain good relations with these physicians. Physicians referring patients to our clinics are free to refer their patients to other providers. If we are unable to successfully cultivate and maintain strong relationships with these physicians, our business may decrease and our net operating revenues may decline. We also depend upon our ability to recruit and retain experienced physical and occupational therapists. As mentioned above, our revenue generation is dependent upon referrals from physicians in the communities our clinics serve, and our ability to maintain good relations with these physicians. Our therapists are the front line for generating these referrals and we are dependent on their talents and skills to successfully cultivate and maintain strong relationships with these physicians. If we cannot recruit and retain our base of experienced and clinically skilled therapists, our business may decrease and our net operating revenues may decline. Periodically, we have clinics in isolated communities that are temporarily unable to operate due to the unavailability of a therapist who satisfies our standards. Our revenues may fluctuate due to weather. We have a significant number of clinics in states that normally experience snow and ice during the winter months. Also, a significant number of our clinics are located in states along the Gulf Coast and Atlantic Coast which are subject to periodic hurricanes and other severe storm systems. Periods of severe weather may cause physical damage to our facilities or prevent our staff or patients to travel to our clinics, which may cause a decrease in our net operating revenues. Our revenues may decline during prolonged economic slowdown or recession. Our revenues are a reflection of the number of visits made by patients to our clinics. Some therapy and some surgical treatments that lead to patient need for therapy are elective or can be deferred. During periods of high unemployment or relative economic weakness, patient visits may decline. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation. The healthcare industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to: • facility and professional licensure, including certificates of need; • conduct of operations, including financial relationships among healthcare providers, Medicare fraud and abuse, and physician self-referral; • addition of facilities and services; and • payment for services. Recently, there have been heightened coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts by both federal and state government agencies relating to the healthcare industry. We believe we are in substantial compliance with all laws, but differing interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our methods of operations, facilities, equipment, personnel, services and capital expenditure programs and increase our operating expenses. If we fail to comply with these extensive laws and government regulations, we could become ineligible to receive government program reimbursement, suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. In addition, we could be forced to expend considerable resources responding to an investigation or other enforcement action under these laws or regulations. For a more complete description of certain of these laws and regulations, see “Business — Regulation and Healthcare Reform” in Item 1. 6 Table of Contents Healthcare reform legislation may affect our business. In recent years, many legislative proposals have been introduced or proposed in Congress and in some state legislatures that would effect major changes in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. At the federal level, Congress has continued to propose or consider healthcare budgets that substantially reduce payments under the Medicare programs. The ultimate content, timing or effect of any healthcare reform legislation and the impact of potential legislation on us is uncertain and difficult, if not impossible to predict. That impact may be material to our business, financial condition or results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive industry. We encounter competition from local, regional or national entities, some of which have superior resources or other competitive advantages. Intense competition may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. For a more complete description of this competitive environment, see “Business — Competition” in Item 1. An adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations may require us to write-down goodwill. We may incur closure costs and losses. The competitive and/or economic conditions in the local markets in which we operate may require us to close certain clinics. In the event a clinic is closed, we may incur closure costs and losses. The closure costs and losses include, but are not limited to, lease obligations, severance, and write-off of goodwill. Future acquisitions may use significant resources, may be unsuccessful and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to continue pursuing acquisitions of outpatient physical and occupational therapy clinics. Acquisitions may involve significant cash expenditures, potential debt incurrence and operational losses, dilutive issuances of equity securities and expenses that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • the difficulty and expense of integrating acquired personnel into our business; • diversion of management’s time from existing operations; • potential loss of key employees of acquired companies; and • assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare regulations. We may not be successful in obtaining financing for acquisitions at a reasonable cost, or such financing may contain restrictive covenants that limit our operating flexibility. We also may be unable to acquire outpatient physical and occupational therapy clinics or successfully operate such clinics following the acquisition. Certain of our internal controls, particularly as they relate to billings and cash collections, are largely decentralized at our clinic locations. Our clinic operations are largely decentralized and certain of our internal controls, particularly the processing of billings and cash collections, occur at the clinic level. Taken as a whole, we believe our internal controls for these functions at our clinics are adequate. Our controls for billing and cash collections largely depend on compliance with our written policies and procedures and separation of functions among clinic personnel. We also maintain corporate level controls, including an audit compliance program, that are intended to mitigate and detect any potential deficiencies in internal controls at the clinic level. The effectiveness of these controls to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the level of compliance with our policies and procedures deteriorates. 7 Table of Contents FACTORS INFLUENCING DEMAND FOR THERAPY SERVICES We believe that the following factors, among others, influence the growth of outpatient physical and occupational therapy services: Economic Benefits of Therapy Services. Purchasers and providers of healthcare services, such as insurance companies, health maintenance organizations, businesses and industries, continuously seek cost savings for traditional healthcare services. We believe that our therapy services provide a cost-effective way to prevent short-term disabilities from becoming chronic conditions and to speed recovery from surgery and musculoskeletal injuries. Earlier Hospital Discharge. Changes in health insurance reimbursement, both public and private, have encouraged the early discharge of patients to reduce costs. We believe that early hospital discharge practices foster greater demand for outpatient physical and occupational therapy services. Aging Population. In general, the elderly population has a greater incidence of disability compared to the population as a whole. As this segment of the population grows, we believe that demand for rehabilitation services will expand. MARKETING We focus our marketing efforts primarily on physicians, mainly orthopedic surgeons, neurosurgeons, physiatrists, occupational medicine physicians and general practitioners. In marketing to the physician community, we emphasize our commitment to quality patient care and regular communication with physicians regarding patient progress. We employ personnel to assist clinic directors in developing and implementing marketing plans for the physician community and to assist in establishing referral relationships with health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations, industry and case managers and insurance companies. SOURCES OF REVENUE Payor sources for clinic services are primarily managed care programs, commercial health insurance, Medicare/Medicaid, workers’ compensation insurance and proceeds from personal injury cases. Commercial health insurance, Medicare and managed care programs generally provide coverage to patients utilizing our clinics after payment by the patients of normal deductibles and co-insurance payments. Workers’ compensation laws generally require employers to provide, directly or indirectly through insurance, costs of medical rehabilitation for their employees from work-related injuries and disabilities and, in some jurisdictions, mandatory vocational rehabilitation, usually without any deductibles, co-payments or cost sharing. Treatments for patients who are parties to personal injury cases are generally paid from the proceeds of settlements with insurance companies or from favorable judgments. If an unfavorable judgment is received, collection efforts are generally not pursued against the patient and the patient’s account is written-off against established reserves. Bad debt reserves relating to all receivable types are regularly reviewed and adjusted as appropriate. The following table shows our payor mix for the years ended: December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 Payor Visits Percentage Visits Percentage Visits Percentage Managed Care Programs 413,056 30.7 % 362,781 30.1 % 337,794 30.4 % Commercial Health Insurance 366,236 27.2 % 329,481 27.3 % 307,895 27.7 % Medicare/Medicaid 318,276 23.6 % 275,672 22.9 % 233,368 21.0 % Workers’ Compensation Insurance 198,924 14.8 % 187,375 15.5 % 182,137 16.4 % Other 51,035 3.7 % 51,044 4.2 % 50,658 4.5 % Total 1,347,527 100.0 % 1,206.353 100.0 % 1,111,852 100.0 % 8 Table of Contents Our business depends to a significant extent on our relationships with commercial health insurers, health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations and workers’ compensation insurers. In some geographical areas, our clinics must be approved as providers by key health maintenance organizations and preferred provider plans to obtain payments. Failure to obtain or maintain these approvals would adversely affect financial results. During the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 22.6% of our visits were from patients with Medicare program coverage. To receive Medicare reimbursement, a Medicare Certified Rehabilitation Agency or the individual therapist must meet applicable participation conditions set by HHS relating to the type of facility, equipment, record keeping, personnel and standards of medical care, and also must comply with all state and local laws. HHS, through Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Service (“CMS”) and designated agencies, periodically inspects or surveys clinics/providers for approval and/or compliance. We anticipate that newly developed clinics will generally become certified as Medicare providers. There is no assurance that newly developed clinics will be successful in becoming certified as Medicare providers. Since 1999, reimbursement for outpatient therapy services has been made according to a fee schedule published by the HHS. Under the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, the total amount paid by Medicare in any one year for outpatient physical (including speech-language pathology) and/or occupational therapy to any one patient is limited to $1,500 (the “Medicare Limit”), except for services provided in hospitals. After a three-year moratorium, this Medicare Limit on therapy services was implemented for services rendered on or after September 1, 2003, subject to an adjusted total of $1,590 (the “Adjusted Medicare Limit”). Effective December 8, 2003, a moratorium was again placed on the Adjusted Medicare Limit for the remainder of 2003 and for years 2004 and 2005. Under the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, the Adjusted Medicare Limit was reinstated effective as of January 1, 2006. Outpatient therapy services rendered to Medicare beneficiaries by the Company’s therapists will be subject to the cap, except to the extent these services are rendered pursuant to certain management and professional services agreements with inpatient facilities, in which case the caps would not apply. The Medicare Limit for 2006 is $1,740 subject to an exception policy created by CMS, as more fully defined in the February 15, 2006 Medicare Fact Sheet. In summary, the exception process specified diagnoses that qualify for an automatic exception to the therapy caps, if the condition or complexity has a direct and significant impact on the course of therapy being provided and the additional treatment is medically necessary. The exception process further provides that manual exceptions may be granted if the condition or complexity does not allow for an automatic exception, but is believed to require medically necessary services. In the absence of an exemption, patients who are impacted by the cap may choose to pay out of their own pockets for services in excess of the cap, it is assumed that the cap will result in lost revenues to the Company. Any such negative impact on the Company’s revenue could potentially be reduced by replacing lost revenues by more marketing efforts to non-Medicare sources or through staffing reductions. If such negative impact is not mitigated, the 2006 Medicare Limit could have an adverse impact on 2006 net income. Medicare regulations require that a physician certify the need for therapy services for each patient and that these services be provided under an established plan of treatment, which is periodically revised. Medicaid is not, nor is it expected to be, a material payor for us constituting less than 1% of historical revenue. REGULATION AND HEALTHCARE REFORM Numerous federal, state and local regulations regulate healthcare services. Some states into which we may expand have laws requiring facilities employing health professionals and providing health-related services to be licensed and, in some cases, to obtain a certificate of need (that is, demonstrating to a state regulatory authority the need for, and financial feasibility of, new facilities or the commencement of new healthcare services). None of the states in which we currently operate require obtaining certificates of need for the conduct of our current business functions. Our therapists, however, are required to be licensed, as determined 9 Table of Contents by the state in which they provide services. Failure to obtain or maintain any required certificates, approvals or licenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulations Controlling Fraud and Abuse. Various federal and state laws regulate financial relationships involving providers of healthcare services. These laws include Section 1128B(b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S. C. §1320a-7b[b], (the “Fraud and Abuse Law”), under which civil and criminal penalties can be imposed upon persons who, among other things, offer, solicit, pay or receive remuneration in return for (i) the referral of patients for the rendering of any item or service for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, by a Federal health care program (including Medicare and Medicaid); or (ii) purchasing, leasing, ordering, or arranging for or recommending purchasing, leasing, ordering any good, facility, service, or item for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, by a Federal health care program (including Medicare and Medicaid). We believe that our business procedures and business arrangements are in compliance with these provisions. However, the provisions are broadly written and the full extent of their specific application to specific facts and arrangements of which the Company is a party is uncertain and difficult to predict. In addition, several states have enacted state laws similar to the Fraud and Abuse law, which may be more restrictive than the Fraud and Abuse Law. In 1991, the Office of the Inspector General (“OIG”) of the United States Department of Health and Human Services issued regulations describing compensation financial arrangements that fall within a “Safe Harbor” and, therefore, are not viewed as illegal remuneration under the Fraud and Abuse Law. Failure to fall within a Safe Harbor does not mean that the Fraud and Abuse Law has been violated; however, the OIG has indicated that failure to fall within a Safe Harbor may subject an arrangement to increased scrutiny under a “facts and circumstances” test. Our business of managing physician-owned physical therapy facilities is regulated by the Fraud and Abuse Law. However, the manner in which we contract with such facilities often falls outside the complete scope of available Safe Harbors. We believe our arrangements comply with the Fraud and Abuse Law, even though federal courts provide little guidance as to the application of the Fraud and Abuse Law to these arrangements. If our management contracts are held to violate the Fraud and Abuse Law, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In February 2000, the OIG issued a special fraud alert regarding the rental of space in physician offices by persons or entities to which the physicians refer patients. The OIG’s stated concern in these arrangements is that rental payments may be disguised kickbacks to the physician-landlords to induce referrals. We rent clinic space for a number of our clinics from referring physicians and have taken the steps that we believe are necessary to ensure that all leases comply to the extent possible and applicable with the space rental Safe Harbor to the Fraud and Abuse Law. In April 2003, the OIG issued a special advisory bulletin addressing certain complex contractual arrangements for the provision of items and services that were previously identified as suspect in a 1989 special fraud alert. This special advisory bulletin identified several characteristics commonly exhibited by suspect arrangements, the existence of one or more of which could indicate a prohibited arrangement to the OIG. Generally, the indicia of a suspect contractual joint venture as identified by the special advisory bulletin and Opinion 04-17 include the following: • New Line of Business. A provider in one line of business (“Owner”) expands into a new line of business that can be provided to the Owner’s existing patients, with another party who currently provides the same or similar item or service as the new business (“Manager/Supplier”). • Captive Referral Base. The arrangement predominantly or exclusively serves the Owner’s existing patient base (or patients under the control or influence of the Owner). • Little or No Bona Fide Business Risk. The Owner’s primary contribution to the venture is referrals; it makes little or no financial or other investment in the business, delegating the entire operation to the Manager/Supplier, while retaining profits generated from its captive referral base. 10 Table of Contents • Status of the Manager/Supplier. The Manager/Supplier is a would-be competitor of the Owner’s new line of business and would normally compete for the captive referrals. It has the capacity to provide virtually identical services in its own right and bill insurers and patients for them in its own name. • Scope of Services Provided by the Manager/Supplier. The Manager/Supplier provides all, or many, of the new business’ key services. • Remuneration. The practical effect of the arrangement, viewed in its entirety, is to provide the Owner the opportunity to bill insurers and patients for business otherwise provided by the Manager/Supplier. The remuneration from the venture to the Owner (i.e., the profits of the venture) takes into account the value and volume of business the Owner generates. • Exclusivity. The arrangement bars the Owner from providing items or services to any patients other than those coming from Owner and/or bars the Manager/Supplier from providing services in its own right to the Owner’s patients. Due to the nature of our business operations, many of our management service arrangements exhibit one or more of these characteristics. However, the Company believes it has taken steps regarding the structure of such arrangements as necessary to sufficiently distinguish them from these suspect ventures, and to comply with the requirements of the Fraud and Abuse Law. However, if the OIG believes the Company has entered into a prohibited contractual joint venture, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Stark Law. Provisions of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (42 U.S.C. §1395nn) (the “Stark Law”) prohibit referrals by a physician of “designated health services” which are payable, in whole or in part, by Medicare or Medicaid, to an entity in which the physician or the physician’s immediate family member has an investment interest or other financial relationship, subject to several exceptions. The Stark Law applies to the Company’s management contracts with individual physicians and physician groups, as well as, any other financial relationship between us and referring physicians, including any financial transaction resulting from a clinic acquisition. The Stark Law also prohibits any party from billing for services rendered pursuant to a prohibited referral. Several states have enacted laws similar to the Stark Law. These state laws may cover all (not just Medicare and Medicaid) patients. Many federal healthcare reform proposals in the past few years have attempted to expand the Stark Law to cover all patients as well. As with the Fraud and Abuse Law, we consider the Stark Law in planning our clinics, marketing and other activities, and believe that our operations are in compliance with the Stark Law. If we violate the Stark Law our financial results and operations would be adversely affected. Penalties for violations include denial of payment for the services, significant civil monetary penalties, and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. HIPAA. In an effort to further combat healthcare fraud and protect patient confidentially, Congress included several anti-fraud measures in the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”). HIPAA created a source of funding for fraud control to coordinate federal, state and local healthcare law enforcement programs, conduct investigations, provide guidance to the healthcare industry concerning fraudulent healthcare practices, and establish a national data bank to receive and report final adverse actions. HIPAA also criminalized certain forms of health fraud against all public and private payors. Additionally, HIPAA mandates the adoption of standards regarding the exchange of healthcare information in an effort to ensure the privacy and electronic security of patient information and standards relating to the privacy of health information. We believe that our operations fully comply with applicable standards for privacy and security of protected healthcare information. Sanctions for failing to comply with HIPAA include criminal penalties and civil sanctions. We cannot predict what negative effect, if any, HIPAA will have on our business. Other Regulatory Factors. Political, economic and regulatory influences are fundamentally changing the healthcare industry in the United States. Congress, state legislatures and the private sector continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery and payment systems. Potential alternative approaches could include mandated basic healthcare benefits, controls on healthcare spending through limitations on the growth of private health insurance premiums and Medicare and Medicaid spending, the creation of large insurance 11 Table of Contents purchasing groups, and price controls. Legislative debate is expected to continue in the future and market forces are expected to demand only modest increases or reduced costs. For instance, managed care entities are demanding lower reimbursement rates from healthcare providers and, in some cases, are requiring or encouraging providers to accept capitated payments that may not allow providers to cover their full costs or realize traditional levels of profitability. We cannot reasonably predict what impact the adoption of any federal or state healthcare reform measures or future private sector reform may have on our business. COMPETITION The healthcare industry generally, and the physical and occupational therapy businesses in particular, are highly competitive and undergo continual changes in the manner in which services are delivered and providers are selected. Competitive factors affecting our business include quality of care, cost, treatment outcomes, convenience of location, and relationships with, and ability to meet the needs of, referral and payor sources. Our clinics compete, directly or indirectly, with the physical and occupational therapy departments of acute care hospitals, physician-owned therapy clinics, other private therapy clinics and chiropractors. Of these sources, we believe acute care hospital outpatient therapy clinics and private therapy clinic organizations are our primary competitors. We may face more intense competition as consolidation of the therapy industry continues through the acquisition of physician-owned and other privately owned therapy practices. We believe that our strategy of providing key therapists in a community with an opportunity to participate in clinic profitability provides us with a competitive advantage by helping to ensure the commitment of local management to the success of the clinic. We also believe that our competitive position is enhanced by our strategy of locating our clinics, when possible, on the ground floor of office buildings and shopping centers with nearby parking, thereby making the clinics more easily accessible to patients. We offer convenient hours. We also attempt to make the decor in our clinics less institutional and more aesthetically pleasing than traditional hospital clinics. Finally, we believe that we can generally provide services at a lower cost than hospitals due to hospitals’ higher overhead. COMPLIANCE PROGRAM Our Compliance Program. The ongoing success of our Company depends upon our reputation for quality service and ethical business practices. Our Company operates in a highly regulated environment with many federal, state and local laws and regulations. We take a proactive interest in understanding and complying with the laws and regulations that apply to our business. Our Board of Directors (“Board”) adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics to clarify the ethical standards under which the directors and management carry out their duties. In addition, the Board has created a Corporate Compliance Sub-Committee of the Board’s Audit Committee (“Compliance Committee”) whose purpose is to assist the Board and its Audit Committee (“Audit Committee”) in discharging their oversight responsibilities with respect to compliance with federal and state laws and regulations relating to healthcare. We have issued an Ethics and Compliance Manual and created a compliance video. These tools were prepared to ensure that each clinic as well as every employee of our Company and our subsidiaries has a clear understanding of our mutual commitment to high standards of professionalism, honesty, fairness and compliance with the law in conducting business. These standards are administered by our Compliance Officer (“CO”), who reports to the Chairman of the Compliance Committee and has the responsibility for the day-to-day oversight, administration and development of our compliance program. The CO, internal and external counsel, management and the Compliance Committee review our policies and procedures for our compliance program from time to time in order to improve operations and to ensure compliance with requirements of standards, laws and regulations and to reflect the on-going compliance focus areas which have been identified by the Compliance Committee. We also have established systems for reporting potential violations, educating our employees, monitoring and auditing compliance and handling enforcement and discipline. 12 Table of Contents Committees. Our Compliance Committee, appointed by the Board, consists of three independent directors. The Compliance Committee has general oversight of our Company’s compliance with the legal and regulatory requirements regarding healthcare operations. The Compliance Committee relies on the expertise and knowledge of management, especially the CO and other compliance and legal personnel. The CO is in on going contact with the Chairman of the Compliance Committee. The Compliance Committee meets at least four times a year or more frequently as necessary to carry out its responsibilities and reports periodically to the Board regarding its actions and recommendations. In addition, management has appointed a team to address our Company’s compliance with HIPAA. The HIPAA team consists of employees from our legal, information systems, finance, operations, compliance, business services and human resources departments. The team prepares assessments and makes recommendations regarding operational changes and/or new systems, if needed, to comply with HIPAA. Each clinic has a formally appointed Governing Body composed of a member of management of the Company and the director/administrator of the clinic. The Governing Body retains legal responsibility for the overall conduct of the clinic. The members confer regularly and discuss, among other issues, clinic compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Reporting Violations. In order to facilitate our employees’ ability to report in confidence, anonymously and without retaliation any perceived improper work-related activities and other violations of our compliance program, we have set up an independent national compliance hotline. The compliance hotline is available to receive confidential reports of wrongdoing Monday through Friday (excluding holidays), 24 hours a day. The compliance hotline is staffed by experienced third party professionals trained to utilize utmost care and discretion in handling sensitive issues and classified information. The information received is documented and forwarded timely to the CO, who, together with the Compliance Committee, has the power and resources to investigate and resolve matters of improper conduct. Educating Our Employees. We utilize numerous methods to train our employees in compliance related issues. The directors/administrators of each clinic are responsible to conduct the initial training sessions on corporate compliance with existing employees. Training is based on our Ethics and Compliance Manual and compliance video. The directors/administrators also provide periodic “refresher” training for existing employees and one-on-one comprehensive training with new hires. The Corporate Compliance group responds to questions from clinic personnel and will conduct frequent teleconference meetings on topics as deemed necessary. When a clinic opens, the CO sends a package of compliance materials containing manuals and detailed instructions for meeting Medicare Rehabilitation Agency (if applicable) and other compliance requirements. During follow up telephone training with the director/administrator of the clinic, the CO explains various details regarding requirements and compliance standards. The CO and the compliance staff will remain in contact with the director/administrator while the clinic is being brought up to compliance standards and to provide any assistance required. All new office managers receive training (including Medicare, regulatory and corporate compliance, insurance billing, charge entry and transaction posting and coding, daily, weekly and monthly accounting reports) from the training staff at the corporate office. The corporate compliance group will assist in continued compliance including guidance to the clinic in Medicare certifications, state survey requirements and responses to any items noted by regulatory agencies. Monitoring and Auditing Compliance. The Company has in place audit programs and other procedures to monitor and audit compliance with application policies and procedures. We employ internal auditors who as part of their job responsibilities conduct periodic audits of each clinic. Each clinic is typically audited regularly and additional focused audits are performed as deemed necessary. During these audits, particular attention is paid to compliance with Medicare and internal policies, Federal and state laws and regulations, third party payor requirements, and patient chart documentation, billing, marketing, reporting, record keeping, collections and contract procedures. The audits are conducted on site and include interviews with the employees involved in management, operations, billing and accounts receivable. Formal audit reports are prepared and reviewed with corporate management and the Compliance Committee. Each clinic director/administrator will receive a letter instructing them of any corrective measures required. Each clinic director/ 13 Table of Contents administrator then works with the compliance team and operations to ensure such corrective measures are achieved. We also have a Medicare Remediation Specialist on our compliance staff. The Medicare Remediation Specialist assists clinics in implementing corrective measures for deficient items identified during the audit process. Handling Enforcement and Discipline. It is our policy that any employee who fails to comply with compliance program requirements or who negligently or deliberately fails to comply with known laws or regulations specifically addressed in our compliance program should be subject to disciplinary action up to and including discharge from employment. The Compliance Committee, Compliance staff, human resources staff and clinic management investigate violations of our compliance program and impose disciplinary action as considered appropriate. EMPLOYEES At December 31, 2005, we employed 1,579 people, of which 1,269 were full-time employees. At that date, as it relates to the Company, no employees were governed by collective bargaining agreements or were members of a union. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. In the states in which our current clinics are located, persons performing designated physical and occupational therapy services are required to be licensed by the state. All persons currently employed by us who are required to be licensed are licensed. We are not aware of any federal licensing requirements applicable to our employees. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are made available free of charge on our internet website at www.usph.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. ITEM 1.B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 