ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks. Some of these risks are described below, and readers of this Annual Report on Form 10-K should take such risks into account in evaluating our Company or making any decision to invest in us. This section does not describe all risks applicable to our Company, our industry or our business, and it is intended only as a summary of material factors affecting our business. We depend upon reimbursement by third-party payors. Substantially all of our revenues are derived from private and governmental third-party payors. In 2007, approximately 80% of our revenues were derived collectively from managed care plans, commercial health insurers, workers’ compensation payors, and other private pay revenue sources and approximately 20% of our revenues were derived from Medicare and Medicaid. Initiatives undertaken by industry and government to contain healthcare costs affect the profitability of our clinics. These payors attempt to control healthcare costs 11 Table of Contents by contracting with healthcare providers to obtain services on a discounted basis. We believe that this trend will continue and may limit reimbursements for healthcare services. If insurers or managed care companies from whom we receive substantial payments were to reduce the amounts they pay for services, our profit margins may decline, or we may lose patients if we choose not to renew our contracts with these insurers at lower rates. In addition, in certain geographical areas, our clinics must be approved as providers by key health maintenance organizations and preferred provider plans. Failure to obtain or maintain these approvals would adversely affect our financial results. Since 1999, reimbursement for outpatient therapy services provided to Medicare beneficiaries has been made according to a fee schedule published by HHS. Under the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, the total amount paid by Medicare in any one year for outpatient physical therapy or occupational therapy (including speech-language pathology) to any one patient was initially limited to $1,500, (the “Medicare Cap or Limit”), except for services provided in hospitals. After a three-year moratorium, this Medicare Limit on therapy services was implemented for services rendered on or after September 1, 2003 subject to an adjusted total of $1,590 (the “Adjusted Medicare Limit”). Effective December 8, 2003, a moratorium was again placed on the Adjusted Medicare Limit for the remainder of 2003 and for years 2004 and 2005. Under the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, the Adjusted Medicare Limit was reinstated effective as of January 1, 2006. Outpatient therapy services rendered to Medicare beneficiaries by the Company’s therapists were subject to the cap, except to the extent these services were rendered pursuant to certain management and professional services agreements with inpatient facilities, in which case the caps did not apply. The Adjusted Medicare Limit for 2006 was $1,740. In 2006, Congress passed the DRA, which allowed the CMS to grant exceptions to the Medicare Cap for services provided during the year, as long as those services met certain qualifications (as more fully defined in the February 15, 2006 Medicare Fact Sheet). The exception process allowed for automatic and manual exceptions to the Medicare Cap for medically necessary services. The exception process specified diagnosis that qualified for an automatic exception to the Medicare Cap if the condition or complexity had a direct and significant impact on the course of therapy being provided and the additional treatment was medically necessary. The exception process further provided that manual exceptions could be granted if the condition or complexity did not allow for an automatic exception, but was believed to require medically necessary services. The exceptions provision adopted as part of the DRA expired on December 31, 2006. In December 2006, Congress passed and the President signed the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006, which extends the Medicare Cap exceptions process for 2007. The Medicare Cap continued to apply in 2007, and the Adjusted Medicare Limit for 2007 is $1,780. After Congress extended the exceptions for another year, CMS revised the exceptions procedures. These procedures eliminate the manual exceptions process and expand the use of automatic exceptions. Beginning January 1, 2007, all services that required exceptions to the Medicare Cap were processed as automatic exceptions. While the basic procedure for obtaining an automatic exception remained the same, CMS expanded requirements for documentation related to the medical necessity of services provided above the cap. The Medicare Cap continues to apply in 2008, and the Adjusted Medicare Limit for 2008 is $1,810. On December 20, 2007, the Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007 was signed into law. This Act extended the exceptions process for the Medicare Cap through June 30, 2008. Unless additional legislation is enacted prior to July 1, 2008, the exceptions process will expire at that time. Since the Medicare Cap was implemented, patients who have been impacted by the cap and those who do not qualify for an exception may choose to pay for services in excess of the cap themselves; however, it is assumed that the Medicare Cap will continue to result in some lost revenues to the Company. For a further description of this and other laws and regulations involving governmental reimbursements, see “Business — Sources of Revenue” and “— Regulation and Healthcare Reform” in Item 1. 12 Table of Contents We depend upon the cultivation and maintenance of relationships with the physicians in our markets. Our success is dependent upon referrals from physicians in the communities our clinics serve and our ability to maintain good relations with these physicians and other referral sources. Physicians referring patients to our clinics are free to refer their patients to other therapy providers or to their own physician owned therapy practice. If we are unable to successfully cultivate and maintain strong relationships with physicians and other referral sources, our business may decrease and our net operating revenues may decline. We also depend upon our ability to recruit and retain experienced physical and occupational therapists. As mentioned above, our revenue generation is dependent upon referrals from physicians in the communities our clinics serve, and our ability to maintain good relations with these physicians. Our therapists are the front line for generating these referrals and we are dependent on their talents and skills to successfully cultivate and maintain strong relationships with these physicians. If we cannot recruit and retain our base of experienced and clinically skilled therapists, our business may decrease and our net operating revenues may decline. Periodically, we have clinics in isolated communities that are temporarily unable to operate due to the unavailability of a therapist who satisfies our standards. Our revenues may fluctuate due to weather. We have a significant number of clinics in states that normally experience snow and ice during the winter months. Also, a significant number of our clinics are located in states along the Gulf Coast and Atlantic Coast which are subject to periodic hurricanes and other severe storm systems. Periods of severe weather may cause physical damage to our facilities or prevent our staff or patients from traveling to our clinics, which may cause a decrease in our net operating revenues. Our revenues may decline during prolonged economic slowdown or recession. Our revenues are a reflection of the number of visits made by patients to our clinics. Some therapy and some surgical treatments that lead to patient need for therapy are elective or can be deferred. During periods of high unemployment or relative economic weakness, patient visits may decline. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation. The healthcare industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to: • facility and professional licensure/permits, including certificates of need; • conduct of operations, including financial relationships among healthcare providers, Medicare fraud and abuse, and physician self-referral; • addition of facilities and services; and • payment for services. In recent years, there have been heightened coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts by both federal and state government agencies relating to the healthcare industry. We believe we are in substantial compliance with all laws, but differing interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our methods of operations, facilities, equipment, personnel, services and capital expenditure programs and increase our operating expenses. If we fail to comply with these extensive laws and government regulations, we could become ineligible to receive government program reimbursement, suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. In addition, we could be forced to expend considerable resources responding to an investigation or other enforcement action under these laws or regulations. For a more complete description of certain of these laws and regulations, see “Business — Regulation and Healthcare Reform” in Item 1. 13 Table of Contents Healthcare reform legislation may affect our business. In recent years, many legislative proposals have been introduced or proposed in Congress and in some state legislatures that would effect major changes in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. At the federal level, Congress has continued to propose or consider healthcare budgets that substantially reduce payments under the Medicare programs. The ultimate content, timing or effect of any healthcare reform legislation and the impact of potential legislation on us is uncertain and difficult, if not impossible to predict. That impact may be material to our business, financial condition or results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive industry. We encounter competition from local, regional or national entities, some of which have superior resources or other competitive advantages. Intense competition may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. For a more complete description of this competitive environment, see “Business — Competition” in Item 1. An adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations may require us to write-down goodwill. We may incur closure costs and losses. The competitive and/or economic conditions in the local markets in which we operate may require us to close certain clinics. In the event a clinic is closed, we may incur closure costs and losses. The closure costs and losses include, but are not limited to, lease obligations, severance, and write-off of goodwill. Future acquisitions may use significant resources, may be unsuccessful and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to continue pursuing acquisitions of outpatient physical and occupational therapy clinics. Acquisitions may involve significant cash expenditures, potential debt incurrence and operational losses, dilutive issuances of equity securities and expenses that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • the difficulty and expense of integrating acquired personnel into our business; • the diversion of management’s time from existing operations; • the potential loss of key employees of acquired companies; • the difficulty of assignment and/or procurement of managed care contractual arrangements; and • the assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare regulations. We may not be successful in obtaining financing for acquisitions at a reasonable cost, or such financing may contain restrictive covenants that limit our operating flexibility. We also may be unable to acquire outpatient physical and occupational therapy clinics or successfully operate such clinics following the acquisition. Certain of our internal controls, particularly as they relate to billings and cash collections, are largely decentralized at our clinic locations Our clinic operations are largely decentralized and certain of our internal controls, particularly the processing of billings and cash collections, occur at the clinic level. Taken as a whole, we believe our internal controls for these functions at our clinics are adequate. Our controls for billing and cash collections largely depend on compliance with our written policies and procedures and separation of functions among clinic personnel. We also maintain corporate level controls, including an audit compliance program, that are intended to mitigate and detect any potential deficiencies in internal controls at the clinic level. The effectiveness of these controls to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the level of compliance with our policies and procedures deteriorates. 14 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not Applicable. 