ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Unless the context indicates otherwise, all references to “we”, “us”, “our” in this Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” refer to the Company. We are subject to a number of risks listed below, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and value of our securities. Certain statements in the 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K including, without limitation, statements regarding future financial results and performance, plans and objectives, capital expenditures and our management’s beliefs, expectations or opinions, are forward-looking statements, and as such, we desire to take advantage of the “safe harbor” which is afforded such statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our forward-looking statements should be read in conjunction with our comments in this report under the heading, “Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Actual results may differ materially from those statements as a result of factors, risks and uncertainties over which we have no control. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below. Risks Related to Our Business • Our net sales, net income and growth depend largely on the economic strength of the geographic markets that we serve, and if these markets become weaker, we would suffer decreased sales and net income. Many of our customers use our products as components in their own products or in projects undertaken for their customers. Our ability to sell our products is largely dependent on general economic conditions, including how much our customers and end-users spend on power transmission and distribution infrastructures, industrial manufacturing assets, new construction and building, information technology and maintaining or reconfiguring their communications networks. Should the economic slowdown in the United States and European markets worsen or expand more fully to other parts of the world, the Company would suffer a further decrease in sales and net income. • The markets for our products are highly competitive, and if we fail to invest in product development, productivity improvements and customer service and support, sales of our products could be adversely affected. The markets for copper, aluminum and fiber optic wire and cable products are highly competitive, and some of our competitors may have greater financial resources than we have. We compete with at least one major competitor with respect to each of our business segments. Many of our products are made to common specifications and therefore may be fungible with competitors’ products. Accordingly, we are subject to competition in many markets on the basis of price, delivery time, customer service and our ability to meet specific customer needs. We believe that competitors will continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive price and performance characteristics. We expect that we will be required to continue to invest in product development, productivity improvements and customer service and support in order to compete in our markets. Furthermore, an increase in imports of competing products could adversely affect our sales on a region by region basis. • Our business is subject to the economic, political and other risks of maintaining facilities and selling products in foreign countries. During the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 66% of our sales and approximately 78% of our assets were in markets outside North America. Our operations outside North America generated approximately 86% of our cash flows from operations during this period. Our financial results may be adversely affected by significant fluctuations or devaluations in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies or by the enactment of exchange controls or foreign governmental or regulatory restrictions on the transfer of funds. In addition, negative tax consequences relating to the repatriation of certain foreign income may adversely affect our cash flows. Furthermore, our foreign operations are subject to risks inherent in maintaining operations abroad, such as economic and political destabilization, international conflicts, restrictive actions by foreign governments, nationalizations or appropriations, changes in regulatory requirements, the difficulty of effectively managing diverse global operations, adverse foreign tax laws and the threat posed by potential pandemics in countries that do not have the resources necessary to deal with such outbreaks. Over time, we intend to continue to expand our foreign operations, which would serve to exacerbate these risks and their potential effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. In particular, with the acquisition of PDIC, we have significant operations in countries in Central and South America, Africa and Asia. Economic and political developments in these countries, including future economic changes or crises (such as inflation, currency devaluation or recession), government deadlock, political instability, civil strife, international conflicts, changes in laws and regulations and expropriation or nationalization of property or other resources, could impact our operations or the market value of our common stock and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although PDIC and its subsidiaries maintain political risk insurance related to its operations in a number of countries, any losses we may incur may not be covered by this insurance and, even if covered, such insurance may not fully cover such losses. In addition to these general risks, there are significant country specific risks including: • Brazil and other Latin American countries have historically experienced uneven periods of economic growth as well as recession, high inflation, currency devaluation and economic instability. These countries’ governments have been known to intervene in their respective economies, in the form of price controls, currency devaluations, capital controls and limits on imports. 12 Table of Contents • Thailand recently experienced significant political and militant unrest in certain provinces. The country’s elected government was overthrown in September 2006, with an elected government only recently restored. A stabilizing factor in Thailand’s political conflict has been the role of the monarchy. The king is widely respected in Thailand and his political influence has been accepted by most Thais. His recent hospitalization and health have drawn attention to his successor. If the king’s succession plans remain unresolved while political divisions remain, opposing factions may intensify their struggle, with potentially destabilizing consequences. • Venezuela has experienced difficult economic conditions, relatively high levels of inflation, and foreign exchange and price controls which have historically limited the Company’s ability to convert Bolivar to US Dollar and transfer funds out of Venezuela. On January 7, 2010, the Venezuela’s National Consumer Price Index for December 2009 indicated the cumulative three-year inflation rate was over 100%. As a result, beginning January 1, 2010, the Company’s subsidiaries in Venezuela will be considered to be operating in a highly inflationary economy. On January 8, 2010, the Venezuelan government announced its intention to devalue its currency (Bolivar) and establish a two-tier foreign exchange structure. The official exchange rate for essential goods (food, medicine and other essential goods) and non-essential goods was adjusted from 2.15 Bolivars to each US Dollar to 2.60 and 4.30, respectively. General Cable expects that its products will be classified as non-essential. While the Company continues to evaluate the impact of these actions by the Venezuelan government, the Company expects to record a charge in the first quarter of 2010 related primarily to the remeasurement of the local balance sheet on the date of the devaluation. There was no impact to the Company’s 2009 results of operations or cash flows. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statement for additional information. The President of Venezuela has the authority to legislate certain areas by decree, and the Venezuelan government has nationalized or announced plans to nationalize certain industries and has sought to expropriate certain companies and property. In both 2009 and 2008, net sales attributable to Venezuela were approximately 5% of consolidated net sales. In 2009 and 2008, operating income attributable to Venezuela was approximately 28% and 10% respectively, of consolidated operating income. • Algeria has a tumultuous past, characterized by violence and terrorism. The country’s government has been moderately successful in neutralizing these threats creating a more receptive political and social atmosphere. Many of these factors typically become more prevalent during periods of economic stress; therefore, current global economic conditions may exacerbate certain of these risks. For example, we are subject to foreign currency risk and economic and political instability which can lead to significant and unpredictable volatility in currency rates, including significant currency devaluations, which may negatively impact our revenues, gross margins, results of operations and financial position. • Compliance with foreign and U.S. laws and regulations applicable to our international operations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), is difficult and may increase the cost of doing business in international jurisdictions. Various laws and regulations associated with our current international operations are complex and increase our cost of doing business. Furthermore, these laws and regulations expose us to fines and penalties if we fail to comply with them. These laws and regulations include import and export requirements, U.S. laws such as the FCPA, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials and other corrupt practices. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies, particularly as we expand our operations through organic growth and acquisitions. Any such violations could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial fines or prohibitions on our ability to offer our wire and cable products in one or more countries, and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our business and our operating results. In addition, if we fail to address the challenges and risks associated with our international expansion and acquisition strategy, we may encounter difficulties implementing our strategy, which could impede our growth or harm our operating results. • Volatility in the price of copper and other raw materials, as well as fuel and energy, could adversely affect our businesses. The costs of copper and aluminum, the most significant raw materials we use, have been subject to considerable volatility over the past few years. Volatility in the price of copper, aluminum, polyethylene, petrochemicals, and other raw materials, as well as fuel, natural gas and energy, may in turn lead to significant fluctuations in our cost of sales. Additionally, sharp increases in the price of copper can also reduce demand if customers decide to defer their purchases of copper wire and cable products or seek to purchase substitute products. Although we attempt to recover copper and other raw material price changes either in the selling price of our products or through our commodity hedging programs, there is no assurance that we can do so successfully or at all in the future particularly during times of slow economic growth. 13 Table of Contents • Interruptions of supplies from our key suppliers may affect our results of operations and financial performance. Interruptions of supplies from our key suppliers, including as a result of catastrophes such as hurricanes, earthquakes, floods or terrorist activities, could disrupt production or impact our ability to increase production and sales. All copper and aluminum rod used in our North American operations is externally sourced, and our largest supplier of copper rod accounted for approximately 86% of our North American purchases in 2009 while our largest supplier of aluminum rod accounted for approximately 87% of our North American purchases in 2009. The Company’s European operations purchase copper and aluminum rod from many suppliers with each supplier generally providing a small percentage of the total copper and aluminum rod purchased while operations in ROW internally produce the majority of their copper and aluminum rod production needs and obtain cathode and ingots from various sources with each supplier generally providing a small percentage of the total amount of raw materials purchased. Any unanticipated problems with our copper or aluminum rod suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, we use a limited number of sources for most of the other raw materials that we do not produce. We do not have long-term or volume purchase agreements with most of our suppliers, and may have limited options in the short-term for alternative supply if these suppliers fail to continue the supply of material or components for any reason, including their business failure, inability to obtain raw materials or financial difficulties. Moreover, identifying and accessing alternative sources may increase our costs. • Failure to negotiate extensions of our labor agreements as they expire may result in a disruption of our operations. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 50% of our employees were represented by various labor unions. During the five calendar years ended December 31, 2009, we have experienced two strikes, which were settled on satisfactory terms. We are party to labor agreements with unions that represent employees at many of our manufacturing facilities. In the United States, Chile, Thailand, New Zealand, Mexico, Germany and Brazil, union contracts will expire at nine facilities in 2010 and two facilities in 2011 representing approximately 18.2% and 4.8%, respectively, of total employees as of December 31, 2009. Labor agreements are generally negotiated on an annual or bi-annual basis and the risk exists that labor agreements may not be renewed on reasonably satisfactory terms to the Company or at all. We cannot predict what issues may be raised by the collective bargaining units representing our employees and, if raised, whether negotiations concerning such issues will be successfully concluded. A protracted work stoppage could result in a disruption of our operations which could, in turn, adversely affect our ability to deliver certain products and our financial results. • Our inability to continue to achieve productivity improvements may result in increased costs. Part of our business strategy is to increase our profitability by lowering costs through improving our processes and productivity. In the event we are unable to continue to implement measures improving our manufacturing techniques and processes, we may not achieve desired efficiency or productivity levels and our manufacturing costs may increase. In addition, productivity increases are related in part to factory utilization rates. Unanticipated decreases in utilization rates may adversely impact productivity. • Changes in industry standards and regulatory requirements may adversely affect our business. As a manufacturer and distributor of wire and cable products for customers that operate in various industries, we are subject to a number of industry standard-setting authorities, such as Underwriters Laboratories, the Telecommunications Industry Association, the Electronics Industries Association, the International Electrotechnical Commission and the Canadian Standards Association. In addition, many of our products are subject to the requirements of federal, state and local or foreign regulatory authorities. Changes in the standards and requirements imposed by such authorities could have an adverse effect on us. In the event that we are unable to meet any such new or modified standards when adopted, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, changes in the legislative environment could affect the growth and other aspects of important markets served by us. Legislation was enacted, such as the Energy Policy Act of 2005, to establish a comprehensive, long-range national energy policy. Among other things, it provides tax credits and other incentives for the production of traditional sources of energy, as well as alternative energy sources, such as wind, wave, tidal and geothermal power generation systems. Although we believe legislative efforts have had a positive impact on us and our financial results, we cannot be certain that this impact will continue. Further, we cannot predict the impact, either positive or negative, that changes in laws or industry standards may have on our future financial results, cash flows or financial position. 14 Table of Contents • Advancing technologies, such as fiber optic and wireless technologies, may continue to make some of our products less competitive. Technological developments continue to have an adverse effect on elements of our business. For example, a continued increase in the rate of installations using fiber optic systems or an increase in the cost of copper-based systems may have an adverse effect on our business. While we do manufacture and sell fiber optic cables, any further acceleration in the erosion of our sales of copper cables due to increased market demand for fiber optic cables would most likely not be offset by an increase in sales of our fiber optic cables. Also, advancing wireless technologies, as they relate to network and communications systems represent an alternative to certain copper cables we manufacture and may reduce customer demand for premise wiring. Traditional telephone companies are facing increasing competition within their respective territories from, among others, providers of Voice over Internet protocol (“VoIP”) and wireless carriers. Wireless communications depend heavily on a fiber optic backbone and do not depend as much on copper-based systems. The increased acceptance and use of VoIP and wireless technology, or introduction of new wireless or fiber-optic based technologies, continues to have an adverse effect on the marketability of our products and our profitability. Our sales of copper premise cables currently face downward pressure from wireless and VoIP technology, and the increased acceptance and use of these technologies has heightened this pressure and the potential negative impact on our results of operations. • We are substantially dependent upon distributors and retailers for non-exclusive sales of our products and they could cease purchasing our products at any time. During 2008 and 2009, approximately 38% of our domestic net sales were made to independent distributors and four of our ten largest customers were distributors. Distributors accounted for a substantial portion of sales of our communications- and industrial-related products. During 2008 and 2009, approximately 10% and 11%, respectively, of our domestic net sales were to retailers. The two largest retailers combined to account for approximately 2% of our worldwide net sales in 2008 and 2009. These distributors and retailers are not contractually obligated to carry our product lines exclusively or for any period of time. Therefore, these distributors and retailers may purchase products that compete with our products or cease purchasing our products at any time. The loss of one or more large distributors or retailers could have a material adverse effect on our ability to bring our products to end users and on our results of operations. Moreover, a downturn in the business of one or more large distributors or retailers could adversely affect our sales and could create significant credit exposure. • In each of our markets, we face pricing pressures that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial performance. We face pricing pressures in each of our markets as a result of significant competition or over-capacity. While we continually work toward reducing our costs to respond to the pricing pressures that may continue, we may not be able to achieve proportionate reductions in costs. While we generally were successful in raising prices to recover increased raw material costs in the period from the second quarter of 2004 through 2008, pricing pressures have accelerated in 2009, and price volatility is expected for the foreseeable future. Further pricing pressures, without offsetting cost reductions, could adversely affect our financial results. • If either our uncommitted accounts payable confirming arrangement or our accounts receivable financing arrangement for our European operations is cancelled, our liquidity may be negatively impacted. Our Spanish operations participate in accounts payable confirming arrangements with several European financial institutions. We negotiate payment terms with suppliers of generally 180 days and submit invoices to the financial institutions with instructions for the financial institutions to transfer funds from our Spanish operations’ accounts on the due date (on day 180) to the receiving parties to pay the invoices in full. At December 31, 2009, the arrangements had a maximum availability limit of the equivalent of approximately $443.1 million, of which approximately $282.0 million was drawn. Should the availability under these arrangements be reduced or terminated, we may be required to repay the outstanding obligations over 180 days and may have to seek alternative arrangements. We also have approximately $125.4 million available under uncommitted, Euro-denominated facilities in Europe, which allow us to sell at a discount, with no or limited recourse, a portion of our accounts receivable to financial institutions. As of December 31, 2009, we have drawn approximately $1.1 million from these accounts receivable facilities. We do not have firm commitments from these institutions to purchase our accounts receivable. We cannot assure you that alternate arrangements will be available on favorable terms or at all. Failure to obtain alternative arrangements in such case would negatively impact our liquidity. • We are exposed to counterparty risk in our hedging arrangements. From time to time we enter into arrangements with financial institutions to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices, currency and interest rates, including forward contracts and swap agreements. Recently, a number of financial institutions similar to those that serve as counterparties to our hedging arrangements have been adversely affected by the global credit crisis. The failure of one or more counterparties to our hedging arrangements to fulfill or renew their obligations to us could adversely affect our results of operations. At times, depending on the extent of any unrealized loss position(s) on a derivative contract(s), certain counterparties may require us to post collateral to secure our derivative contract position. 15 Table of Contents • As a result of market and industry conditions, we may be required to recognize impairment charges for our long-lived assets including goodwill or in the event we close additional plants. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess our assets including goodwill to determine if they are impaired. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in impairments to goodwill and other long-lived assets. Future impairment charges could significantly affect our results of operations in the period recognized. During the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company rationalized outside plant telecommunication products manufacturing capacity due to continued declines in telecommunications cable demand. The Company closed a portion of its telecommunications capacity located primarily at its Tetla, Mexico facility and recorded a pre-tax charge to write-off certain production equipment of $6.6 million. This action freed approximately 100,000 square feet of manufacturing space, which the Company is utilizing for other products for the local markets in Mexico as well as the markets in Central and South America. During the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company permanently closed one energy plant following an extended shutdown due to its small scale and remote geographic location. The Company plans to relocate this equipment to other facilities in order to take advantage of markets in the developing world. Future rationalization of plant manufacturing capacity could result in charges that affect our results of operations in the period recognized. • As a result of market and industry conditions, we may be required to reduce our recorded inventory values, which would result in charges against income If, as a result of volatile copper prices, we are not able to recover the LIFO value of our inventory in a period when replacement costs are lower than the LIFO value of the inventory, we would be required to take a charge to recognize an adjustment of LIFO inventory to market value. If LIFO inventory quantities are reduced in a future period when replacement costs exceed the LIFO value of the inventory, we would experience an increase in reported earnings. Conversely, if LIFO inventory quantities are reduced in a future period when replacement costs are lower than the LIFO value of the inventory, we would experience a decline in reported earnings. • We are subject to certain asbestos litigation and unexpected judgments or settlements that could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. There are 1,126 pending non-maritime asbestos cases involving our subsidiaries. The majority of these cases involve plaintiffs alleging exposure to asbestos-containing cable manufactured by our predecessors. In addition to our subsidiaries, numerous other wire and cable manufacturers have been named as defendants in these cases. Our subsidiaries have also been named, along with numerous other product manufacturers, as defendants in 33,325 suits in which plaintiffs alleged that they suffered an asbestos-related injury while working in the maritime industry. These cases are referred to as MARDOC cases and are currently managed under the supervision of the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. On May 1, 1996, the District Court ordered that all pending MARDOC cases be administratively dismissed without prejudice and the cases cannot be reinstated, except in certain circumstances involving specific proof of injury. We cannot assure you that any judgments or settlements of the pending non-maritime and/or MARDOC asbestos cases or any cases which may be filed in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our financial results, cash flows or financial position. Moreover, certain of our insurers may become financially unstable and in the event one or more of these insurers enter into insurance liquidation proceedings, we will be required to pay a larger portion of the costs incurred in connection with these cases. While the cumulative average settlement through December 31, 2009 has been approximately $575 per case, the average settlement paid to resolve litigation has increased significantly above that amount, reaching $12,650 per case for litigation settled in 2009, as the mix of cases currently being listed for trial in state courts and those which may be listed in the future, which may need to be resolved, generally involve more serious asbestos related injuries. • Environmental liabilities could potentially adversely impact us and our affiliates. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental protection laws and regulations governing our operations and the use, handling, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances currently or formerly used by us and our affiliates. A risk of environmental liability is inherent in our and our affiliates’ current and former manufacturing activities in the event of a release or discharge of a hazardous substance generated by us or our affiliates. Under certain environmental laws, we could be held jointly and severally responsible for the remediation of any hazardous substance contamination at our facilities and at third party waste disposal sites and could also be held liable for any consequences arising out of human exposure to such substances or other environmental damage. We and our affiliates have been named as potentially responsible parties in proceedings that involve environmental remediation. There can be no assurance that the costs of complying with environmental, health and safety laws and requirements in our current operations or the liabilities arising from past releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, will not result in future expenditures by us that could materially and adversely affect our financial results, cash flows or financial condition. 16 Table of Contents • There are pending antitrust and competition law investigations relating to the cable industry. The U.S. Department of Justice, or DOJ, and the European Commission have been conducting antitrust and competition law investigations relating to the cable industry, which we believe relate primarily to the submarine and underground high-voltage cables businesses. We have not been engaged in the high-voltage submarine cable business. We only recently entered the submarine cable business in March 2009 through our German affiliate, Norddeutsche Seekabelwerke GmbH & Co., which we acquired in 2007. We have received requests for information from both the DOJ and the European Commission in connection with their investigations. We have provided documents to the DOJ and responded to their questions. With regard to the European investigation, which, in our case, has been focused principally on our Spanish operations, we completed our response to the request for information on November 16, 2009. We may receive further requests for information from the DOJ and the European Commission. No wrongdoing by us or any of our subsidiaries has been alleged by U.S. antitrust and European Union competition authorities. If any claims were to be made, defending them could involve us in lengthy proceedings. If we or our subsidiaries were found to have violated antitrust or competition regulations, we or our subsidiaries could be subject to fines and claims for damages, which could be substantial. • Growth through acquisition has been a significant part of our strategy and we may not be able to successfully identify or integrate acquisitions. Growth through acquisition has been, and is expected to continue to be, a significant part of our strategy. We regularly evaluate possible acquisition candidates. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in identifying, financing and closing acquisitions at favorable prices and terms. Potential acquisitions may require us to issue additional shares of stock or obtain additional or new financing. The issuance of shares of our common or preferred stock in connection with potential acquisitions may dilute the value of shares held by our then existing equity holders. Further, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in integrating any such acquisitions that are completed. Integration of any such acquisitions may require substantial management, financial and other resources and may pose risks with respect to production, customer service and market share of existing operations. In addition, we may acquire businesses that are subject to technological or competitive risks, and we may not be able to realize the benefits originally expected from such acquisitions. • We have assumed substantially all of the liabilities of the PDIC operations, which may expose us to additional risks and uncertainties that we would not face if the acquisition had not occurred. As a result of the PDIC acquisition, we succeeded to substantially all of the liabilities associated with the wire and cable business we acquired, which may include, without limitation: • environmental risks and liabilities related to the operation of the acquired assets; • risks associated with these operations in various foreign countries, including in · Brazil, China, Colombia, India, Thailand, Venezuela and Zambia; • existing product liability claims with respect to the acquired wire and cable · products; • other existing litigation and tax liabilities involving the acquired wire and cable · business; and • employee and employee benefit liabilities. In addition to the risks set forth above, we may discover additional information, risks or uncertainties about this business that may adversely affect us. An acquisition of operations in many foreign countries, such as this acquisition, makes it extremely difficult for the acquirer to discover and adequately protect itself against all potentially adverse liabilities, risks or uncertainties that exist or may arise. Based on all of the foregoing liabilities, risks and uncertainties, there can be no assurance that the acquisition will not, in fact, have a negative impact on our business or financial results. Subject to certain limitations and exceptions, the stock purchase agreement we entered into in connection with the acquisition provides us with indemnification rights for losses we incur in connection with: • a breach by the sellers of specified representations and warranties; • a breach by the sellers of a covenant in the stock purchase agreement; or • specified environmental and tax liabilities. Our right to seek indemnification for such losses is limited by the terms of the stock purchase agreement, which requires us to absorb specified amounts of losses before we may seek indemnification. Moreover, the maximum amount of indemnity we may seek under the stock purchase agreement is limited. Furthermore, it may be extremely difficult for us to prove that a loss we incur was caused by a specified breach of a covered representation or warranty or covenant. Except in the case of fraud and as to available equitable remedies, our right to seek indemnification will be the exclusive remedy we may pursue under the stock purchase agreement for any losses we incur in connection with the acquisition. 17 Table of Contents If we are unable to prove a breach of a representation, warranty or covenant necessary to support an indemnification claim, if a claim or loss we incur is not covered by these indemnification provisions, or if the total amount of liabilities and obligations we incur in the acquisition exceeds the amount of indemnification provided, we may be responsible to pay unforeseen additional expenses and costs. Furthermore, any claim by us for indemnification under the stock purchase agreement may be contested, which could have the effect of delaying or ultimately preventing our receipt of remuneration for such a claim. As a result, our business may be materially adversely affected and our stock price could decline. • Terrorist and other attacks or acts of war may adversely affect the markets in which we operate and our profitability. The attacks of September 11, 2001 and subsequent events, including the military actions in Afghanistan, Iraq and elsewhere in the Middle East, have caused and may continue to cause instability in our markets and have led and may continue to lead to, further armed hostilities or further acts of terrorism worldwide, which could cause further disruption in our markets. Acts of terrorism and those of guerilla groups or drug cartels may impact any or all of our facilities and operations, or those of our customers or suppliers and may further limit or delay purchasing decisions of our customers. Depending on their magnitude, these or similar acts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial results, cash flows and financial position. We carry insurance coverage on our facilities of types and in amounts that we believe are in line with coverage customarily obtained by owners of similar properties. We continue to monitor the state of the insurance market in general and the scope and cost of coverage for acts of terrorism and similar acts in particular, but we cannot anticipate what coverage will be available on commercially reasonable terms in future policy years. Currently, we do not carry terrorism insurance coverage. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged facilities, as well as the anticipated future net sales from those facilities. Depending on the specific circumstances of each affected facility, it is possible that we could be liable for indebtedness or other obligations related to the facility. Any such loss could materially and adversely affect our business, financial results, cash flows and financial position. • If we fail to retain our key employees, our business may be harmed. Our success has been largely dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our key employees and the loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees, without a properly executed transition plan, could have an adverse effect on us. The loss of our key employees who have intimate knowledge of our manufacturing process could lead to increased competition to the extent that those employees are hired by a competitor and are able to recreate our manufacturing process. Our future success will also depend in part upon our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, who are in great demand. • Declining returns in the investment portfolio of our defined benefit pension plans and changes in actuarial assumptions could increase the volatility in our pension expense and require us to increase cash contributions to the plans. We sponsor defined benefit pension plans around the world. Pension expense for the defined benefit pension plans sponsored by us is determined based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including an expected long-term rate of return on assets and discount rate. The use of these assumptions makes our pension expense and our cash contributions subject to year-to-year volatility. As of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the defined benefit pension plans were underfunded by approximately $103.4 million, $122.2 million and $72.5 million respectively, based on the actuarial methods and assumptions utilized for purposes of the applicable accounting rules and interpretations. We have experienced volatility in our pension expense and in our cash contributions to our defined benefit pension plans. In 2009, pension expense was $16.3 million an increase of approximately $8.1 million from 2008 and cash contributions were $13.9 million a increase of approximately $4.6 million from 2008. The Company estimates its 2010 pension expense for its defined benefit plans will decrease to approximately $14.2 million. In the event that actual results differ from the actuarial assumptions or actuarial assumptions are changed, the funded status of our defined benefit pension plans may change and any such deficiency could result in additional charges to equity and an increase in future pension expense and cash contributions. Risks Related to Our Debt • Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We have a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2009, we had $922.3 million of debt outstanding, $100.7 million of which was secured indebtedness, and $293.6 million of additional borrowing capacity available under our amended senior secured credit facility (“Amended Credit Facility”), $64.4 million of additional borrowing capacity under our Spanish subsidiary’s revolving credit facility (“Spanish Credit Facility”) and approximately $50.1 million of additional borrowing capacity under agreements related to ECN and approximately $361.4 million of additional borrowing capacity under our various credit agreements related to ROW, subject to certain conditions. As of December 31, 2009, we had $10.6 million 1.00% Senior Convertible Notes, $355.0 million in 0.875% Senior Convertible Notes and $429.5 million Subordinated Convertible Notes and $200.0 million of fixed-rate 7.125% Senior Notes and $125.0 million of Senior Floating Rate Notes outstanding. Subject to the terms of the Amended Credit Facility, our Spanish subsidiary’s term loan (“Spanish Term Loan”) and Spanish Credit Facility and the indentures governing our 1.00% Senior Convertible Notes, 0.875% Senior Convertible Notes, 7.125% Senior Notes and Senior Floating Rate Notes, we may also incur additional indebtedness, including secured debt, in the future. See Item 7 of this document for details on the various debt agreements. 18 Table of Contents The degree to which we are leveraged could have important adverse consequences to us, limiting management’s choices in responding to business, economic, regulatory and other competitive conditions. In addition, our ability to generate cash flow from operations sufficient to make scheduled payments on our debts as they become due will depend on our future performance, our ability to successfully implement our business strategy and our ability to obtain other financing, which may be influenced by economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our indebtedness could also adversely affect our financial position. We may not have sufficient cash to pay, or may not be permitted to pay, the cash portion of the required consideration that we may need to pay if the 1.00% Senior Convertible Notes, the 0.875% Senior Convertible Notes or the Subordinated Convertible Notes are converted. We will be required to pay to the holder of a note a cash payment equal to the lesser of the principal amount of the notes being converted or the conversion value of those notes. This part of the payment must be made in cash, not in shares of our common stock. As a result, we may be required to pay significant amounts in cash to holders of the notes upon conversion. A failure to pay the required cash consideration would be an event of default under the indenture governing the 1.00% Senior Convertible Notes, the 0.875% Senior Convertible Notes and the Subordinated Convertible Notes, which could lead to cross-defaults under our other indebtedness. In connection with the incurrence of indebtedness under our Amended Credit Facility, the lenders under that facility have received a pledge of all of the capital stock of our existing domestic and Canadian subsidiaries and any future domestic and Canadian subsidiaries. Additionally, these lenders have a lien on substantially all of our domestic assets, including our existing and future accounts receivable, cash, general intangibles, investment property and real property. As a result of these pledges and liens, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under our Amended Credit Facility, the lenders with respect to this facility would be entitled to foreclose on substantially all of our domestic and Canadian assets and to liquidate these assets. • Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may be able to incur substantially more indebtedness. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our indebtedness. Although we now have a significant amount of debt, we may be able to incur substantially more debt in the future. As of December 31, 2009, we had the ability to incur up to $293.6 million of additional secured debt under our senior secured credit facility and $125.4 million in secured debt under our foreign secured credit facilities. Any such additional indebtedness incurred will be expressly or effectively senior to the convertible notes. Our senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing our 2015 and our 2017 notes contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional debt, which restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and debt incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks described above would intensify. • The agreements that govern our secured indebtedness, our 7.125% Senior Notes and Senior Floating Rate Notes contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business. The agreements and instruments that govern certain of our indebtedness contain various restrictive covenants that, among other things, require us to comply with or maintain certain financial tests and ratios and restrict our and our subsidiairies’ ability to: • incur or guarantee additional debt; • create liens; • make certain investments and payments; • pay dividends, purchase company stock or make other distributions; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • make acquisitions; • merge or consolidate; and • transfer or sell assets. Our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to comply with these covenants is subject to various risks and uncertainties. In addition, events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with and maintain the financial tests and ratios required by this indebtedness. Any failure by us or our subsidiaries, as applicable to comply with and maintain all applicable financial tests and ratios and to comply with all applicable covenants could result in an event of default with respect to, the acceleration of the maturity of, and the termination of the commitments to make further extension of credit under, a substantial portion of our debt. Even if we or our subsidiaries, as applicable are able to comply with all applicable covenants, the restrictions on our ability to operate our business in our sole discretion could harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, mergers, acquisitions and other corporate opportunities. 19 Table of Contents • Failure to comply with covenants and other provisions in our existing or future financing agreements could result in cross-defaults under some of our financing agreements, which cross-defaults could jeopardize our ability to satisfy our obligations. Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability or the ability of our subsidiaries to comply with the covenants, financial tests and ratios required by the instruments governing our and their financing arrangements, including, without limitation, the requirement that no final judgment or judgments of a court of competent jurisdiction have been rendered against us or our subsidiaries in excess of stated amounts. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing agreements could result in a default under those agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. A default would permit lenders to cease to make further extensions of credit, accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements and foreclose upon any collateral securing that debt. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations. In addition, the limitations imposed by financing agreements on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our and their ability to obtain other financing. We may also amend the provisions and limitations of our credit facilities from time to time. Certain portions of our debt contain prepayment or acceleration rights at the election of the holders upon a covenant default, change in control or fundamental change, which prepayment or acceleration rights, if exercised, could constitute an event of default under other portions of our debt. It is possible that we would be unable to fulfill all of these obligations simultaneously. • Our ability to pay principal and interest on outstanding indebtedness depends upon our receipt of dividends or other intercompany transfers from our subsidiaries, and claims of creditors of our subsidiaries that do not guarantee our indebtedness will have priority over claims you may have as for our guaranteed indebtedness with respect to the assets and earnings of those subsidiaries. We are a holding company and substantially all of our properties and assets are owned by, and all our operations are conducted through, our subsidiaries. As a result, we are dependent upon cash dividends and distributions or other transfers from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service obligations, including payment of the interest on and principal of our indebtedness when due, and other obligations. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and make other payments to us may be restricted by, among other things, applicable corporate, tax and other laws and regulations in the United States and abroad and agreements made by us and our subsidiaries, including under the terms of our existing and potentially future indebtedness. In addition, claims of creditors, including trade creditors, of our subsidiaries will generally have priority with respect to the assets and earnings of such subsidiaries over the claims of our creditors, except to the extent the claims of our creditors are guaranteed by these subsidiaries. Certain of our indebtedness may be guaranteed by only some of our subsidiaries. In the event of our dissolution, bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, the holders of such indebtedness will not receive any amounts from our non-guarantor subsidiaries with respect to such indebtedness until after the payment in full of the claims of the creditors of those subsidiaries. • To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, to refinance our indebtedness and fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We believe our cash flows from operating activities and our existing capital resources, including the liquidity provided, and to be provided, by our senior secured credit facility and our European subsidiaries’ credit facilities, will be sufficient to fund our operations and commitments for at least the next twelve months. We cannot assure you, however, that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facilities in an amount sufficient to enable us to make payments with respect to our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. To do so, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets, reduce or delay capital expenditures or seek additional equity financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 20 Table of Contents • If we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under our secured indebtedness, the lenders under this indebtedness could foreclose on, and acquire control of, substantially all of our assets. The lenders under our senior secured credit facility have a pledge of all of the capital stock of our existing domestic and Canadian subsidiaries and any future domestic and Canadian subsidiaries. Additionally, the lenders under our senior secured credit facility have a lien on substantially all of our domestic and Canadian assets, including our existing and future accounts receivable, cash, general intangibles, investment property and real property. We also have incurred secured debt in connection with some of our European operations. The lenders under these European secured credit facilities also have liens on assets of certain of our European subsidiaries. As a result of these pledges and liens, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under any of our secured indebtedness, the lenders under the applicable credit agreement would be entitled to foreclose on substantially all of our assets and liquidate these assets. Under those circumstances, we may not have sufficient funds to pay our obligations. • A downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could limit our ability to conduct our business or offer and sell additional debt securities, and could hurt our relationships with creditors. Nationally recognized rating agencies currently rate our debt. Ratings are not recommendations to buy or sell our securities. We may, in the future, incur indebtedness with interest rates that may be affected by changes in or other actions associated with our credit ratings. Each of the rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically, and previous ratings for our debt may not be maintained in the future. Rating agencies may also place us under review for potential downgrade in certain circumstances or if we seek to take certain actions. A downgrade of our debt ratings or other negative action, such as a review for a potential downgrade, could affect the market price of our existing 0.875% Senior Convertible Notes, 1.00% Senior Convertible Notes or our Subordinated Convertible Notes. Furthermore, these events may negatively affect our ability to raise additional debt with terms and conditions similar to our current debt, and accordingly, likely increase our cost of capital. In addition, a downgrade of these ratings, or other negative action, could make it more difficult for us to raise capital to refinance any maturing debt obligations, to support business growth and to maintain or improve the current financial strength of our business and operations. Risks Related to Our Securities • Our stock price has been and continues to be volatile, and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is limited. The price of our securities may fluctuate as a result of various factors, such as: • Announcements relating to significant corporate transactions; • Operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to us; • Sales or the expectation of sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market; • Changes in government regulation or proposals relating thereto; and • General stock market fluctuations unrelated to our operating performance. In addition, we do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on the earnings and cash flows of our business and that of our subsidiaries, and on our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds to us. Before declaring a dividend, our Board of Directors will consider factors that ordinarily affect dividend policy, such as earnings, cash flow, estimates of future earnings and cash flow, business conditions, regulatory factors, our financial condition and other matters within its discretion, as well as contractual restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. We may not be able to pay dividends in the future or, if paid, we cannot assure you that the dividends will be in the same amount or with the same frequency as in the past. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, we may pay dividends, in cash or otherwise, only if we have surplus in an amount at least equal to the amount of the relevant dividend payment. Any payment of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, capital requirements, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Further, our Amended Credit Facility and the indentures governing our 7.125% Senior Notes and Senior Floating Rate Notes limit our ability to pay cash dividends, including cash dividends on our common stock. In addition, the certificate of designations for our Series A preferred stock prohibits us from the payment of any cash dividends on our common stock if we are not current on dividend payments with respect to our Series A preferred stock. Agreements governing future indebtedness will likely contain restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends. • Future issuances of shares of our common stock may depress its market price. Sales or issuances of substantial numbers of additional shares of common stock, including shares of common stock underlying the 0.875% and 1.00% Senior Convertible Notes, Subordinated Convertible Notes and shares of our outstanding Series A preferred stock, as well as sales of shares that may be issued in connection with future acquisitions, or the perception that such sales could occur, may have a harmful effect on prevailing market prices for our common stock and our convertible securities and our ability to raise additional capital in the financial markets at a time and price favorable to us. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, provides that we have authority to issue 200 million shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2009, there were approximately 52.0 million shares of common stock outstanding (net of treasury shares), approximately 0.4 million shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of currently outstanding stock options and approximately 0.4 million shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of our outstanding Series A preferred stock. In addition, a maximum of approximately 0.2 million and 14.3 million shares of our common stock could be issuable upon conversion of our 1.00% Senior Convertible Notes and Subordinated Convertible Notes, respectively. Similarly, a maximum of approximately 9.0 million shares of common stock could be issuable upon conversion of our 0.875% Senior Convertible Notes and approximately 7.0 million shares of common stock could be issuable due to the issuance of warrants we issued in connection with the offering of our 0.875% Senior Convertible Notes. All of the shares of our common stock that could be issued pursuant to the conversion of our 0.875% and 1.00% Senior Convertible Notes and Subordinated Convertible Notes by holders who are not our affiliates would be freely tradable by such holders. 21 Table of Contents • Our convertible note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the trading price of our common stock. In connection with the issuance of our 0.875% Senior Convertible Notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions with one or more of the participating underwriters or their affiliates, which we refer to as the counterparties. The convertible note hedge transactions are comprised of purchased call options and sold warrants. The purchased call options are expected to reduce our exposure to potential dilution upon the conversion of the 0.875% Senior Convertible Notes. We also entered into warrant transactions with such counterparties. The sold warrants have an exercise price that is approximately 92.4% higher than the closing price of our common stock on the date the 0.875% Senior Convertible Notes were priced. The warrants are expected to provide us with some protection against increases in our stock price over the conversion price per share. In connection with these transactions, the counterparties, or their affiliates: • may enter into various over-the-counter derivative transactions or purchase or sell our common stock in secondary market transactions; and • may enter into, or may unwind, various over-the-counter derivatives or purchase or sell our common stock in secondary market transactions, including during any conversion reference period with respect to a conversion of 0.875% Senior Convertible Notes. These activities may have the effect of increasing, or preventing a decline in, the market price of our common stock. In addition, any hedging transactions by the counterparties, or their affiliates, including during any conversion reference period, may have an adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. The counterparties, or their affiliates, are likely to modify their hedge positions from time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the 0.875% Senior Convertible Notes by purchasing and selling shares of our common stock, other of our securities, or other instruments, including over-the-counter derivative instruments, that they may wish to use in connection with such hedging. In addition, we intend to exercise our purchased call options whenever 0.875% Senior Convertible Notes are converted, although we are not required to do so. In order to unwind any hedge positions with respect to our exercise of the purchased call options, the counterparties or their affiliates would expect to sell shares of common stock in secondary market transactions or unwind various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock during the conversion reference period for any 0.875% Senior Convertible Notes that may be converted. The effect, if any, of these transactions and activities in connection with the 0.875% Senior Convertible Notes on the market price of our common stock will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and, as a result, the number of shares and value of the common stock received upon conversion of our 0.875% and 1.00% Senior Convertible Notes and Subordinated Convertible Notes. • Issuances of additional series of preferred stock could adversely affect holders of our common stock. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue additional series of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders. Our Board of Directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, conversion rights, dividend rights, preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or if we liquidate, dissolve or wind up our business and other terms. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. • Provisions in our constituent documents could make it more difficult to acquire our company. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, only our Board of Directors may call special meetings of stockholders, and stockholders must comply with advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. Directors may be removed by stockholders only for cause and only by the effective vote of at least 662/3% of the voting power of all shares of capital stock then entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class. Additionally, the severance policy applicable to our executive officers may have the effect of making a transaction that would constitute a change of control more expensive and, therefore, less attractive. 22 Table of Contents Pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our Board of Directors may by resolution establish one or more series of preferred stock, having such number of shares, designation, relative voting rights, dividend rates, conversion rights, liquidation or other rights, preferences and limitations as may be fixed by our Board of Directors without any further stockholder approval. Such rights, preferences, privileges and limitations as may be established, as well as provisions related to our convertible notes that may entitle holders of those notes to receive make-whole or other payments upon the consummation of a change in control or other fundamental transaction, could have the further effect of impeding or discouraging the acquisition of control of our company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 