ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Unless the context indicates otherwise, all references to “we”, “us”, “our” in this Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” refer to the Company. We are subject to a number of risks listed below, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and value of our securities. Certain statements in the 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K including, without limitation, statements regarding future financial results and performance, plans and objectives, capital expenditures and our or management’s beliefs, expectations or opinions, are forward-looking statements, and as such, we desire to take advantage of the “safe harbor” which is afforded such statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our forward-looking statements should be read in conjunction with our comments in this report under the heading, “Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Actual results may differ materially from those statements as a result of factors, risks and uncertainties over which we have no control. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below. Risks Related to Our Business • Our net sales, net income and growth depend largely on the economic strength of the geographic markets that we serve, and if these markets become weaker, we could suffer decreased sales and net income. Many of our customers use our products as components in their own products or in projects undertaken for their customers. Our ability to sell our products is largely dependent on general economic conditions, including how much our customers and end-users spend on power transmission and distribution infrastructures, industrial manufacturing assets, new construction and building, information technology and maintaining or reconfiguring their communications networks. In the early 2000s, many companies significantly reduced their capital equipment and information technology budgets, and construction activity that necessitates the building or modification of communication networks and power transmission and distribution infrastructures slowed considerably as a result of a weakening of the U.S. and foreign economies. As a result, our net sales and financial results declined significantly in those years. Beginning in 2004 and continuing through 2005 and 2006, we have seen an improvement in these markets; however, if they were to weaken, we could suffer decreased sales and net income. • The markets for our products are highly competitive, and if we fail to invest in product development, productivity improvements and customer service and support, the sale of our products could be adversely affected. The markets for copper, aluminum and fiber optic wire and cable products are highly competitive, and some of our competitors may have greater financial resources than ours. We compete with at least one major competitor with respect to each of our business segments. Many of our products are made to common specifications and therefore may be fungible with competitors’ products. Accordingly, we are subject to competition in many markets on the basis of price, delivery time, customer service and our ability to meet specific customer needs. We believe that competitors will continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive price and performance characteristics. We expect that we will be required to continue to invest in product development, productivity improvements and customer service and support in order to compete in our markets. Furthermore, an increase in imports of products competitive with our products could adversely affect our sales. • Our business is subject to the economic, political and other risks of maintaining facilities and selling products in foreign countries. During the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 44% of our sales and approximately 53% of our assets were in markets outside North America. Our operations outside North America generated approximately $82.4 million of our cash flows from operations and the North American operations generated approximately $11.6 million of cash flows from operations during this period. Our financial results may be adversely affected by significant fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies or by the enactment of exchange controls or foreign governmental or regulatory restrictions on the transfer of funds. In addition, negative tax consequences relating to repatriating certain foreign currencies, particularly cash generated by our operations in Spain, may adversely affect our cash flows. Furthermore, our foreign operations are subject to risks inherent in maintaining operations abroad, such as economic and political destabilization, international conflicts, restrictive actions by foreign governments, nationalizations, changes in regulatory requirements, the difficulty of effectively managing diverse global operations, adverse foreign tax laws and the threat posed by potential 15 Table of Contents international disease pandemics in countries that do not have the resources necessary to deal with such outbreaks. Over time, we intend to continue to expand our foreign operations, which would serve to exacerbate these risks and their potential effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. • Volatility in the price of copper and other raw materials, as well as fuel and energy, could adversely affect our businesses. The costs of copper and aluminum, the most significant raw materials we use, have been subject to considerable volatility over the years. Volatility in the price of copper, aluminum, polyethylene, petrochemicals, and other raw materials, as well as fuel, natural gas and energy, will in turn lead to significant fluctuations in our cost of sales. Additionally, sharp increases in the price of copper can also reduce demand if customers decide to defer their purchases of copper wire and cable products or seek to purchase substitute products. Although we attempt to recover copper and other raw material price changes in the selling price of our products, there is no assurance that we can do so successfully or at all in the future. • Interruptions of supplies from our key suppliers may affect our results of operations and financial performance. Interruptions of supplies from our key suppliers, including as a result of catastrophes such as hurricanes, earthquakes, floods or terrorist activities, could disrupt production or impact our ability to increase production and sales. All copper and aluminum rod used in our North American operations is externally sourced, and our largest supplier of copper rod accounted for approximately 67% of our North American purchases in 2006 while our largest supplier of aluminum rod accounted for approximately 90% of our North American purchases in 2006. Any unanticipated problems with our copper or aluminum rod suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, we use a limited number of sources for most of the other raw materials that we do not produce. We do not have long-term or volume purchase agreements with most of our suppliers, and may have limited options in the short-term for alternative supply if these suppliers fail to continue the supply of material or components for any reason, including their business failure, inability to obtain raw materials or financial difficulties. Moreover, identifying and accessing alternative sources may increase our costs. • Failure to negotiate extensions of our labor agreements as they expire may result in a disruption of our operations. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 62% of our employees were represented by various labor unions. During the five calendar years ended December 31, 2006, we have experienced only three strikes, which were settled on satisfactory terms. The only strike that occurred in 2005 was at our Lincoln, Rhode Island manufacturing facility, and it lasted approximately two weeks. This strike did not have a significant impact on our financial results for 2005. There have been no strikes during 2006. We are party to labor agreements with unions that represent employees at many of our manufacturing facilities. In the U.S. and Canada, labor agreements, consisting of two separate contracts, expired at one facility in 2006 and were successfully renegotiated. Labor agreements will expire at two facilities in 2007 and at one facility in 2008 in the U.S. and Canada. We cannot predict what issues may be raised by the collective bargaining units representing our employees and, if raised, whether negotiations concerning such issues will be successfully concluded. A protracted work stoppage could result in a disruption of our operations which could, in turn, adversely affect our ability to deliver certain products and our financial results. • Our inability to continue to achieve productivity improvements may result in increased costs. Part of our business strategy is to increase our profitability by lowering costs through improving our processes and productivity. In the event we are unable to continue to implement measures improving our manufacturing techniques and processes, we may not achieve desired efficiency or productivity levels and our manufacturing costs may increase. In addition, productivity increases are related in part to factory utilization rates. Our decreased utilization rates from 2002 to 2004 adversely impacted productivity. However, we have experienced an increase in utilization rates during 2005 and most of 2006. • Changes in industry standards and regulatory requirements may adversely affect our business. As a manufacturer and distributor of wire and cable products for customers that operate in various industries, we are subject to a number of industry standard-setting authorities, such as Underwriters Laboratories, the Telecommunications Industry Association, the Electronics Industries Association, the International Electrotechnical Commission and the Canadian Standards Association. In addition, many of our products are subject to the requirements of federal, state and local or foreign regulatory authorities. Changes in the standards and requirements imposed by such authorities could have an adverse effect 16 Table of Contents on us. In the event that we are unable to meet any such new or modified standards when adopted, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, changes in the legislative environment could affect the growth and other aspects of important markets served by us. In August 2005, President George W. Bush signed into law the Energy Policy Act of 2005. This law was enacted to establish a comprehensive, long-range national energy policy. Among other things, it provides tax credits and other incentives for the production of traditional sources of energy, as well as alternative energy sources, such as wind, wave, tidal and geothermal power generation systems. Although we believe this legislation is currently having a positive impact on us and our financial results, we cannot be certain that this impact will continue at this level over time or at all. We also cannot predict the impact, either positive or negative, that changes in laws or industry standards that may be adopted in the future could have on our financial results, cash flows or financial position. • Advancing technologies, such as fiber optic and wireless technologies, may make some of our products less competitive. Technological developments could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, a significant increase in the rate of installations using fiber optic systems or an increase in the cost of copper-based systems would have a material adverse effect on our business. While we do manufacture and sell fiber optic cables, any acceleration in the erosion of our sales of copper cables due to increased market demand for fiber optic cables would most likely not be offset by an increase in sales of our fiber optic cables. Also, advancing wireless technologies, as they relate to network and communications systems, represent an alternative to certain copper cables we manufacture and may reduce customer demand for premise wiring. Traditional telephone companies are facing increasing competition within their respective territories from, among others, providers of voice over Internet protocol (“VoIP”) and wireless carriers. Wireless communications depend heavily on a fiber optic backbone and do not depend as much on copper-based systems. An increase in the acceptance and use of VoIP and wireless technology, or introduction of new wireless or fiber-optic based technologies, may have a material adverse effect on the marketability of our products and our profitability. Our sales of copper premise cables currently face downward pressure from wireless and VoIP technology, and a significant increase in the acceptance and use of these technologies would heighten this pressure and the negative impact it may have on our results of operations. • We are substantially dependent upon distributors and retailers for non-exclusive sales of our products and they could cease purchasing our products at any time. During 2005 and 2006, approximately 39% and 34%, respectively, of our domestic net sales were made to independent distributors and four of our ten largest customers were distributors. Distributors accounted for a substantial portion of sales of our communications- and industrial-related products. During 2005 and 2006, approximately 11% and 10%, respectively, of our domestic net sales were to retailers, and the two largest retailers, The Home Depot and AutoZone, accounted for approximately 3% and 2%, respectively, of our worldwide net sales in 2005 and 2% and 1%, respectively, of such sales in 2006. These distributors and retailers are not contractually obligated to carry our product lines exclusively or for any period of time. Therefore, these distributors and retailers may purchase products that compete with our products or cease purchasing our products at any time. The loss of one or more large distributors or retailers could have a material adverse effect on our ability to bring our products to end users and on our results of operations. Moreover, a downturn in the business of one or more large distributors or retailers could adversely affect our sales and could create significant credit exposure. • In each of our markets, we face pricing pressures that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial performance. We face pricing pressures in each of our markets as a result of significant competition or over-capacity, and price levels for most of our products declined from 2002 through early 2004. While we continually work toward reducing our costs to respond to the pricing pressures that may continue, we may not be able to achieve proportionate reductions in costs. As a result of over-capacity and economic and industry downturn in the communications and industrial markets in particular, pricing pressures increased in 2002 and 2003, and continued into 2004. While we generally have been successful in raising prices to recover increased raw material costs since the second quarter of 2004, pricing pressures continued through 2005 and 2006, and price volatility is expected for the foreseeable future. Further pricing pressures, without offsetting cost reductions, would adversely affect our financial results. 17 Table of Contents • If either our uncommitted accounts payable confirming arrangement or our accounts receivable financing arrangement for our European operations is cancelled, our liquidity will be negatively impacted. Our Spanish operations participate in accounts payable confirming arrangements with several European financial institutions. Our operations negotiate payment terms with suppliers of generally 180 days and submit invoices to the financial institutions with instructions for the financial institutions to transfer funds from our Spanish operations’ accounts on the due date (on day 180) to the receiving parties to pay the invoices in full. At December 31, 2006, the arrangements had a maximum availability limit of the equivalent of approximately $277.2 million, of which approximately $227.2 million was drawn. We also have approximately $69.1 million available under uncommitted, Euro-denominated facilities in Europe, which allow us to sell at a discount, with no or limited recourse, a portion of our accounts receivable to financial institutions. As of December 31, 2006, we have drawn approximately $7.1 million from these accounts receivable facilities. We do not have firm commitments from these institutions to purchase our accounts receivable. Should the availability under these arrangements be reduced or terminated, we would be required to repay the outstanding obligations over 180 days and seek alternative arrangements. We cannot assure you that alternate arrangements will be available on favorable terms or at all. Failure to obtain alternative arrangements in such case would negatively impact our liquidity. • As a result of market and industry conditions, we may need to close additional plants and reduce our recorded inventory values, which would result in charges against income. During 2004, we closed two North American Electrical Infrastructure manufacturing locations, realigned production lines and refocused operations at another North American Electrical Infrastructure manufacturing location and ceased operations at our copper rod mill. We incurred net charges of $7.4 million ($4.7 million of which were cash) in 2004 related to these manufacturing plants and a net gain of $0.3 million related to the rod mill, all of which are now completely closed. In 2005, we closed our telecommunications manufacturing plant located in Bonham, Texas. At that time, we also closed our fiber optic military and premise cable manufacturing plant located in Dayville, Connecticut, and relocated production from this plant to our acquired facility in Franklin, Massachusetts, which produces copper as well as some fiber optic communications products. Total costs recorded during 2005 with respect to these closures were $18.6 million (of which approximately $7.5 million were cash payments), including a $(0.5) million gain from the sale of a previously closed manufacturing plant. We continuously evaluate our ability to more efficiently utilize existing manufacturing capacity which may require additional future charges. As a result of volatile copper prices, the replacement cost of our copper inventory exceeded its historic LIFO cost by approximately $167 million, $107 million and $38 million at December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. If we are not able to recover the LIFO value of our inventory in some future period when replacement costs were lower than the LIFO value of the inventory, we would be required to take a charge to recognize on our income statement an adjustment of LIFO inventory to market value. During 2004, we increased inventory quantities and therefore there was not a liquidation of LIFO inventory impact in this period. During 2005, we reduced our copper inventory quantities in North America which resulted in a $1.1 million gain since LIFO inventory quantities were reduced in a period when replacement costs where higher than the LIFO value of the inventory. During 2006, we increased inventory quantities and therefore there was not a liquidation of LIFO inventory impact in this period. If LIFO inventory quantities are reduced in a future period when replacement costs exceed the LIFO value of the inventory, we would experience an increase in reported earnings. Conversely, if LIFO inventory quantities are reduced in a future period when replacement costs are lower than the LIFO value of the inventory, we would experience a decline in reported earnings. • We are subject to certain asbestos litigation and unexpected judgments or settlements that could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. There are approximately 7,100 pending non-maritime asbestos cases involving our subsidiaries. The majority of these cases involve plaintiffs alleging exposure to asbestos-containing cable manufactured by our predecessors. In addition to our subsidiaries, numerous other wire and cable manufacturers have been named as defendants in these cases. Our subsidiaries have also been named, along with numerous other product manufacturers, as defendants in approximately 33,300 suits in which plaintiffs alleged that they suffered an asbestos-related injury while working in the maritime industry. These cases are referred to as MARDOC cases and are currently managed under the supervision of the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. On May 1, 1996, the District Court ordered that all pending MARDOC cases be administratively dismissed without prejudice and the cases cannot be reinstated, except in certain circumstances involving specific proof of injury. We cannot assure you that any judgments or settlements of the pending non-maritime and/or MARDOC asbestos cases or any cases which may be filed in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our financial results, cash flows or financial position. Moreover, certain of our insurers may be financially unstable and in the event one or more of these 18 Table of Contents insurers enter into insurance liquidation proceedings, we will be required to pay a larger portion of the costs incurred in connection with these cases. • Environmental liabilities could potentially adversely impact us and our affiliates. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental protection laws and regulations governing our operations and the use, handling, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances currently or formerly used by us and our affiliates. A risk of environmental liability is inherent in our and our affiliates’ current and former manufacturing activities in the event of a release or discharge of a hazardous substance generated by us or our affiliates. Under certain environmental laws, we could be held jointly and severally responsible for the remediation of any hazardous substance contamination at our facilities and at third party waste disposal sites and could also be held liable for any consequences arising out of human exposure to such substances or other environmental damage. We and our affiliates have been named as potentially responsible parties in proceedings that involve environmental remediation. There can be no assurance that the costs of complying with environmental, health and safety laws and requirements in our current operations or the liabilities arising from past releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, will not result in future expenditures by us that could materially and adversely affect our financial results, cash flows or financial condition. • Growth through acquisition has been a significant part of our strategy and we may not be able to successfully identify, finance or integrate acquisitions. Growth through acquisition has been, and is expected to continue to be, a significant part of our strategy. For example, in August 2006, we completed the acquisition of E.C.N. Cable Group, S.L. (“ECN Cable”), a manufacturer of aluminum energy and power cables and bimetallic products located near Vitoria, Spain, and in December 2005, we completed the acquisition of Silec Cable, S.A.S., which we refer to as Silec, the former wire and cable manufacturing business of SAFRAN SA based near Paris, France and the acquisition of the Mexican ignition wire set business of Beru AG. We regularly evaluate possible acquisition candidates. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in identifying, financing and closing acquisitions at favorable prices and terms. Potential acquisitions may require us to issue additional shares of stock or obtain additional or new financing, and such financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. The issuance of shares of our common or preferred stock in connection with potential acquisitions may dilute the value of shares held by our then existing equity holders. Further, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in integrating any such acquisitions that are completed. Integration of any such acquisitions may require substantial management, financial and other resources and may pose risks with respect to production, customer service and market share of existing operations. In addition, we may acquire businesses that are subject to technological or competitive risks, and we may not be able to realize the benefits expected from such acquisitions. • Terrorist attacks and other attacks or acts of war may adversely affect the markets in which we operate and our profitability. The attacks of September 11, 2001 and subsequent events, including the military actions in Afghanistan, Iraq and elsewhere in the Middle East, have caused and may continue to cause instability in our markets and have led and may continue to lead to, further armed hostilities or further acts of terrorism worldwide, which could cause further disruption in our markets. Acts of terrorism may impact any or all of our facilities and operations, or those of our customers or suppliers and may further limit or delay purchasing decisions of our customers. Depending on their magnitude, acts of terrorism or war could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial results, cash flows and financial position. We carry insurance coverage on our facilities of types and in amounts that we believe are in line with coverage customarily obtained by owners of similar properties. We continue to monitor the state of the insurance market in general and the scope and cost of coverage for acts of terrorism in particular, but we cannot anticipate what coverage will be available on commercially reasonable terms in future policy years. Currently, we do not carry terrorism insurance coverage. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged facilities, as well as the anticipated future net sales from those facilities. Depending on the specific circumstances of each affected facility, it is possible that we could be liable for indebtedness or other obligations related to the facility. Any such loss could materially and adversely affect our business, financial results, cash flows and financial position. 19 Table of Contents • If we fail to retain our key employees, our business may be harmed. Our success has been largely dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our key employees and the loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees, without a properly executed transition plan, could have an adverse effect on us. The loss of our key employees who have intimate knowledge of our manufacturing process could lead to increased competition to the extent that those employees are hired by a competitor and are able to recreate our manufacturing process. Our future success will also depend in part upon our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, who are in great demand. • As of December 31, 2004 and 2006, we had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, therefore our disclosure controls and procedures were deemed ineffective. In connection with the preparation of our 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K, as of December 31, 2004, we concluded that control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004 constituted material weaknesses within the meaning of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board’s Auditing Standard No. 2, An Audit of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Performed in Conjunction with an Audit of Financial Statements. As we disclosed in our amended 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K that we filed with the SEC on April 29, 2005, we identified material weaknesses regarding the following: • Controls over access to computer applications and segregation of duties with respect to both our manual and computer-based business processes. • Controls over the recording of inventory shipments and revenue in the proper accounting period. • Controls over the recording of receiving transactions and non-purchase order based accounts payable transactions in the proper accounting period. • Controls over the liability estimation and accrual process, including income tax reserves. • Controls over finished goods inventory on consignment at customer locations. • The design and implementation of adequate controls to address the existence and completeness of fixed assets included in the financial statements, including returnable shipping reels, and the effectiveness of controls over recording of fixed asset acquisitions in the proper accounting period. • The design of adequate controls relating to the purchasing function, including review and approval of significant third-party contracts and the maintenance of vendor master files. • The design and implementation of adequate controls over the financial reporting and close process, including controls over non-routine transactions. These deficiencies were primarily attributable to the sufficiency of personnel with appropriate qualifications and training in certain key accounting roles in order to complete and document the monthly and quarterly financial closing process. • The general control environment was ineffective due to the aggregation of the material weaknesses listed above. Throughout 2005, we implemented numerous improvements to internal control over financial reporting to address these material weaknesses. These improvements included the following: • We added personnel with technical accounting experience; • We performed a substantial amount of work on formalizing, implementing, and enforcing new and updated policies in business processes that impact financial reporting, including the compliance process; • We implemented increased levels of review of complex and judgmental accounting issues with a greater focus on evidentiary support for control processes; • We realigned job responsibilities and restricted system access, as well as adding other mitigating controls such as exception reports to eliminate segregation of duties issues; • We implemented enhanced shipment reporting and accounting procedures to ensure proper accounting cut-off; • We formalized and enhanced our monitoring of when title passes in all purchase transactions; • We added additional controls over accruing for non-purchase order based transactions; • We improved the interim and annual review and reconciliation process for certain key account balances; • We refined procedures over accounting for fixed assets; • And we implemented additional controls over the accounting for finished goods inventory on consignment at customer locations. These improvements have been fully implemented and tested, and we concluded that as of December 31, 2005, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective. 20 Table of Contents In connection with the preparation of our 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K, as of December 31, 2006, we identified the following material weakness in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting: Silec was acquired by us in December 2005 and was previously a division of a large French company. In connection with management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting, management has determined that Silec did not complete implementation of adequate internal controls for the purposes of identifying, recording, and reporting Silec’s financial results of operations. Specifically, as part of the transition to the Company, as of December 31, 2006, Silec had not completed a migration of systems from those provided by its former parent. Management determined that the controls over granting and monitoring access to its financial reporting system were not adequate. Further, management’s testing of business process controls identified several control deficiencies, including lack of supporting documentation and lack of timely and sufficient financial statement account reconciliation and analysis. Management determined that in the aggregate, these control deficiencies result in a more than remote likelihood that a material misstatement in the interim or annual financial statements could occur and not be prevented or detected. Due to the material weakness discussed above, we have concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2006. We have also concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2006, due solely to the material weakness related to our Silec subsidiary. Management is taking the following steps to remediate this material weakness: • In February 2007, a significant portion of Silec’s financial systems were migrated to our existing European financial system. The remainder of Silec’s systems are expected to be migrated to independent systems, with appropriate controls in place, by December 31, 2007; and • To ensure successful transition to a formal control structure and to address the internal control implementation issues noted above, Silec has added several resources with Sarbanes-Oxley compliance experience to its financial reporting function including a Chief Accountant, a Director of Cost Accounting, a Treasurer and an IT Director. Although we have been successful at remediating material weaknesses in the past, a risk exists that we may not successfully remediate this material weakness and that there may be more weaknesses identified in the future. • Declining returns in the investment portfolio of our defined benefit pension plans and changes in actuarial assumptions could increase the volatility in our pension expense and require us to increase cash contributions to the plans. Pension expense for the defined benefit pension plans sponsored by us is determined based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including an expected long-term rate of return on assets and discount rate. The use of these assumptions makes our pension expense and our cash contributions subject to year-to-year volatility. As of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the defined benefit pension plans were underfunded by approximately $35.7 million, $40.9 million and $33.0 million, respectively, based on the actuarial methods and assumptions utilized for purposes of the applicable accounting rules and interpretations. We have experienced volatility in our pension expense and in our cash contributions to our defined benefit pension plans. Pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans increased from $4.7 million, excluding $0.7 million of curtailment expense, in 2005 to $6.3 million in 2006 and our required cash contributions decreased to $8.3 million in 2006 from $10.8 million in 2005. In the event that actual results differ from the actuarial assumptions or actuarial assumptions are changed, the funded status of our defined benefit pension plans may change and any such deficiency could result in additional charges to equity and an increase in future pension expense and cash contributions. • An ownership change could result in a limitation of the use of our net operating losses. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $16.2 million of NOL carryforwards that are subject to an annual limitation under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. Approximately $5.4 million of these NOL carryforwards are scheduled to expire in each of 2007, 2008 and 2009. Our ability to utilize NOL carryforwards, including any future NOL carryforwards that may arise, may be further limited by Section 382 if we undergo an ownership change as a result of the sale of our stock by holders of our equity securities or as a result of subsequent changes in the ownership of our outstanding stock. We would undergo an ownership change if, among other things, the stockholders, or group of stockholders, who own or have owned, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of the value of our stock or are otherwise treated as 5% stockholders under Section 382 and the regulations promulgated thereunder increase their aggregate percentage ownership of our stock by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of our stock owned by these stockholders at any time during the testing period, which is generally the three-year period preceding the potential ownership change. In the event of an ownership change, Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the amount of post-ownership 21 Table of Contents change taxable income a corporation may offset with pre-ownership change NOL carryforwards and certain recognized built-in losses. The limitation imposed by Section 382 for any post-change year would be determined by multiplying the value of our stock immediately before the ownership change (subject to certain adjustments) by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate in effect at the time of the ownership change. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years, and the limitation may under certain circumstances be increased by built-in gains which may be present in assets held by us at the time of the ownership change that are recognized in the five-year period after the ownership change. Risks Related to Our Debt • Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We have a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2006, we had $740.6 million of debt outstanding, $52.8 million of which was secured indebtedness, and had $253.5 million of additional borrowing capacity available under our amended senior secured credit facility (“Amended Credit Facility”), $33.0 million of additional borrowing capacity under our Spanish subsidiary’s revolving credit facility (“Spanish Credit Facility”), and approximately $10.0 million of additional borrowing capacity under agreements related to ECN Cable, subject to certain conditions. As of December 31, 2006, we had $285.0 million in unsecured senior notes (“9.5% Senior Notes”) outstanding and $355.0 million in 0.875% Convertible Notes outstanding. Subject to the terms of the Amended Credit Facility, our Spanish subsidiary’s term loan (“Spanish Term Loan”) and Spanish Credit Facility and the indentures governing our 9.5% Senior Notes and 0.875% Convertible Notes, we may also incur additional indebtedness, including secured debt, in the future. See Item 7 of this document for details on the various debt agreements. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important adverse consequences to us, limiting management’s choices in responding to business, economic, regulatory and other competitive conditions. In addition, our ability to generate cash flow from operations sufficient to make scheduled payments on our debts as they become due will depend on our future performance, our ability to successfully implement our business strategy and our ability to obtain other financing, which may be influenced by economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our indebtedness could also adversely affect our financial position. We may not have sufficient cash to pay, or may not be permitted to pay, the cash portion of the required consideration that we may need to pay if the 0.875% Convertible Notes are converted. We will be required to pay to the holder of a note a cash payment equal to the lesser of the principal amount of the notes being converted or the conversion value of those notes. This part of the payment must be made in cash, not in shares of our common stock. As a result, we may be required to pay significant amounts in cash to holders of the notes upon conversion. A failure to pay the required cash consideration would be an event of default under the indenture governing the 0.875% Convertible Notes, which could lead to cross-defaults under our other indebtedness. In connection with the incurrence of indebtedness under our Amended Credit Facility, the lenders under that facility have received a pledge of all of the capital stock of our existing domestic subsidiaries and any future domestic subsidiaries. Additionally, these lenders have a lien on substantially all of our domestic assets, including our existing and future accounts receivables, cash, general intangibles, investment property and real property. As a result of these pledges and liens, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under our Amended Credit Facility, the lenders with respect to this facility would be entitled to foreclose on substantially all of our domestic assets and to liquidate these assets. • Failure to comply with covenants in our existing or future financing arrangements could result in cross-defaults under some of our financing arrangements, which cross-defaults could jeopardize our ability to satisfy our obligations. Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with the covenants, financial tests and ratios required by the instruments governing our financing arrangements. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing agreements could result in a default under those agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. A default would permit lenders to cease to make further extensions of credit, accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements and foreclose upon any collateral securing that debt. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations. In addition, the limitations imposed by financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. We may also amend the provisions and limitations of our credit facilities from time to time. 22 Table of Contents Certain portions of our debt contain prepayment or acceleration rights at the election of the holders upon a covenant default or change in control, which acceleration rights, if exercised, could constitute an event of default under other portions of our debt. It is possible that we would be unable to fulfill all of these obligations simultaneously. • A downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could limit our ability to conduct our business or offer and sell additional debt securities, and could hurt our relationships with creditors. Nationally recognized rating agencies rate the financial strength of our debt. Ratings are not recommendations to buy or sell our securities. We may, in the future, incur indebtedness with interest rates that may be affected by changes in our credit ratings. Each of the rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically, and previous ratings for our debt may not be maintained in the future. A downgrade of our debt ratings could affect our ability to raise additional debt with terms and conditions similar to our current debt, and accordingly, likely increase our cost of capital. In addition, a downgrade of these ratings could make it more difficult for us to raise capital to refinance any maturing debt obligations, to support business growth and to maintain or improve the current financial strength of our business and operations. Risks Related to Our Securities • Our stock has been and continues to be volatile, and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is limited. The value of our securities may fluctuate as a result of various factors, such as: • Announcements relating to significant corporate transactions; • Fluctuations in our quarterly and annual financial results; • Operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to us; • Changes in government regulation or proposals relating thereto; • General industry and economic conditions; • Sales or the expectation of sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market; and • General stock market fluctuations unrelated to our operating performance. In addition, we do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on the earnings and cash flows of our business and that of our subsidiaries, and on our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds to us. Before declaring a dividend, our Board of Directors will consider factors that ordinarily affect dividend policy, such as earnings, cash flow, estimates of future earnings and cash flow, business conditions, regulatory factors, our financial condition and other matters within its discretion, as well as contractual restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. We may not be able to pay dividends in the future or, if paid, we cannot assure you that the dividends will be in the same amount or with the same frequency as in the past. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, we may pay dividends, in cash or otherwise, only if we have surplus in an amount at least equal to the amount of the relevant dividend payment. Any payment of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, capital requirements, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Further, our Amended Credit Facility and the indentures governing our 9.5% Senior Notes and 0.875% Convertible Notes limit our ability to pay cash dividends, including cash dividends on our common stock. In addition, the certificate of designations for our Series A preferred stock prohibits us from the payment of any cash dividends on our common stock if we are not current on dividend payments with respect to our Series A preferred stock. Agreements governing future indebtedness will likely contain restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends. • Future sales of shares of our common stock may depress its market price. Sales of substantial numbers of additional shares of common stock, including shares of common stock underlying the 0.875% Convertible Notes and shares of our outstanding Series A preferred stock, as well as sales of shares that may be issued in connection with future acquisitions, or the perception that such sales could occur, may have a harmful effect on prevailing market prices for our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital in the financial markets at a time and price favorable to us. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that we have authority to issue 75 million shares of common stock. As of February 20, 2007, there were approximately 52.3 million shares of common stock outstanding (net of treasury shares), approximately 1.1 million shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of currently outstanding stock options and approximately 0.5 million shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of our outstanding Series A preferred stock. In addition, a maximum of approximately 9.0 million shares of common stock could be 23 Table of Contents issuable upon conversion of our 0.875% Convertible Notes and approximately 7.0 million shares of common stock could be issuable due to the issuance of warrants. All of the shares of our common stock that could be issued pursuant to the conversion of our 0.875% Convertible Notes and all of the shares of our common stock that could be issued due to the warrants would be freely tradable by such holders. • Issuances of additional series of preferred stock could adversely affect holders of our common stock. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue additional series of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders. Our Board of Directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, conversion rights, dividend rights, preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or if we liquidate, dissolve or wind up our business and other terms. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. • Provisions in our constituent documents could make it more difficult to acquire our company. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, only our Board of Directors may call special meetings of stockholders, and stockholders must comply with advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. Directors may be removed by stockholders only for cause and only by the effective vote of at least 662/3% of the voting power of all shares of capital stock then entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class. Additionally, agreements with certain of our executive officers may have the effect of making a change of control more expensive and, therefore, less attractive. Pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our Board of Directors may by resolution establish one or more series of preferred stock, having such number of shares, designation, relative voting rights, dividend rates, conversion rights, liquidation or other rights, preferences and limitations as may be fixed by our Board of Directors without any further stockholder approval. Such rights, preferences, privileges and limitations as may be established could have the further effect of impeding or discouraging the acquisition of control of our Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 24 Table of Contents 