Item 1A. Risk Factors Unless the context indicates otherwise, all references to “we”, “us”, “our” in this Item 1A. “Risk Factors” refer to the Company. We are subject to a number of risks listed below, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and value of our securities. Certain statements in the 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K including, without limitation, statements regarding future financial results and performance, plans and objectives, capital expenditures and our or management’s beliefs, expectations or opinions, are forward-looking statements, and as such, we desire to take advantage of the “safe harbor” which is afforded such statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our forward-looking statements should be read in conjunction with our comments on Page 22 of this report under the heading, “Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Actual results may differ materially from those statements as a result of factors, risks and uncertainties over which we have no control. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below. • Our net sales, net income and growth depend largely on the economic strength of the geographic markets that we serve, and if these markets become weaker, we could suffer decreased sales and net income. Many of our customers use our products as components in their own products or in projects undertaken for their customers. Our ability to sell our products is largely dependent on general economic conditions, including how much our customers and end-users spend on information technology, new construction and building, maintaining or reconfiguring their communications network, industrial manufacturing assets and power transmission and distribution infrastructures. In the early 2000’s, many companies significantly reduced their capital equipment and information technology budgets, and construction activity that necessitates the building or modification of communication networks and power transmission and distribution infrastructures slowed considerably as a result of a weakening of the U.S. and foreign economies. As a result, our net sales and financial results declined significantly in those years. Beginning in 2004 and continuing throughout 2005, we have seen an improvement in these markets; however, if they were to weaken, we could suffer decreased sales and net income. • The markets for our products are highly competitive, and if we fail to invest in product development, productivity improvements and customer service and support, the sale of our products could be adversely affected. The markets for copper, aluminum and fiber optic wire and cable products are highly competitive, and some of our competitors may have greater financial resources than ours. We compete with at least one major competitor with respect to each of our business segments. Many of our products are made to common specifications and therefore may be fungible with competitors’ products. Accordingly, we are subject to competition in many markets on the basis of price, delivery time, customer service and our ability to meet specific customer needs. We believe that competitors will continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive price and performance characteristics. We expect that we will be required to continue to invest in product development, productivity improvements and customer service and support in order to compete in our markets. Furthermore, an increase in imports of products competitive with our products could adversely affect our sales. • Our business is subject to the economic, political and other risks of maintaining facilities and selling products in foreign countries. During the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 34% of our sales and approximately 48% of our assets were in markets outside North America. Our operations outside North America generated approximately $75.6 million of our cash flows from operations and the North American operations generated $45.4 million of cash flows from operations during this period. Our financial results may be adversely affected by significant fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies or by the enactment of exchange controls or foreign governmental or regulatory restrictions on the transfer of funds. In addition, negative tax consequences relating to repatriating certain foreign currencies, particularly cash generated by our operations in Spain, may adversely affect our cash flows. Furthermore, our foreign operations are subject to 12 Table of Contents risks inherent in maintaining operations abroad, such as economic and political destabilization, international conflicts, restrictive actions by foreign governments, nationalizations, changes in regulatory requirements, the difficulty of effectively managing diverse global operations, adverse foreign tax laws and the threat posed by potential international disease pandemics in countries that do not have the resources necessary to deal with such outbreaks. • Changes in industry standards and regulatory requirements may adversely affect our business. As a manufacturer and distributor of wire and cable products, we are subject to a number of industry standard-setting authorities, such as Underwriters Laboratories, the Telecommunications Industry Association, the Electronics Industries Association and the Canadian Standards Association. In addition, many of our products are subject to the requirements of federal, state and local or foreign regulatory authorities. Changes in the standards and requirements imposed by such authorities could have an adverse effect on us. In the event that we are unable to meet any such standards when adopted, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, changes in the legislative environment could affect the growth and other aspects of important markets served by us. In September 2005, President George W. Bush signed into law the Energy Policy Act of 2005. This law was enacted to establish a comprehensive, long-range national energy policy. Among other things, it provides tax credits and other incentives for the production of traditional sources of energy, as well as alternative energy sources, such as wind, wave, tidal and geothermal power generation systems. Although we are studying the impact that this legislation may have on us and our financial results, we cannot presently predict this impact. We also cannot predict the impact, either positive or negative, that changes in laws or industry standards that may be adopted in the future could have on our financial results, cash flows or financial position. • Advancing technologies, such as fiber optic and wireless technologies, may make some of our products less competitive. Technological developments could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, a significant decrease in the cost and complexity of installation of fiber optic systems or an increase in the cost of copper-based systems could make fiber optic systems superior on a price performance basis to copper systems and may have a material adverse effect on our business. While we do manufacture and sell fiber optic cables, any erosion of our sales of copper cables due to increased market demand for fiber optic cables would most likely not be offset by an increase in sales of our fiber optic cables. Also, advancing wireless technologies, as they relate to network and communications systems, may represent an alternative to certain copper cables we manufacture and reduce customer demand for premise wiring. Traditional telephone companies are facing increasing competition within their respective territories from, among others, voice over Internet protocol, or “VoIP,” providers and wireless carriers. Wireless communications depend heavily on a fiber optic backbone and do not depend as much on copper-based systems. An increase in the acceptance and use of VoIP and wireless technology, or introduction of new wireless or fiber-optic based technologies, may have a material adverse effect on the marketability of the our products and our profitability. If wireless technology were to significantly erode the markets for copper-based systems, our sales of copper premise cables could face downward pressure. • Volatility in the price of copper and other raw materials, as well as fuel and energy, could adversely affect our businesses. The costs of copper and aluminum, the most significant raw materials we use, have been subject to considerable volatility over the years. Volatility in the price of copper, aluminum, polyethylene, petrochemicals, and other raw materials, as well as fuel, natural gas and energy, will in turn lead to significant fluctuations in our cost of sales. Additionally, sharp increases in the price of copper can also reduce demand if customers decide to defer their purchases of copper wire and cable products or seek to purchase substitute products. Moreover, we do not engage in activities to hedge the underlying value of our copper and aluminum inventory. Although we attempt to reflect copper and other raw material price changes in the selling price of our products, there is no assurance that we can do so successfully or at all in the future. • Interruptions of supplies from our key suppliers may affect our results of operations and financial performance. Interruptions of supplies from our key suppliers, including as a result of such natural catastrophes as Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, could disrupt production or impact our ability to increase production and sales. During 2003, our copper rod mill plant produced approximately 62% of the copper rod used in our North American operations, and two suppliers provided an aggregate of approximately 68% of our North American copper purchases. During the second quarter of 2004, our rod mill facility ceased operations. All copper rod used in our North American operations is now externally sourced; our largest 13 Table of Contents supplier of copper rod accounted for approximately 66% of our North American purchases in 2005. Any unanticipated problems with our copper rod suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, we use a limited number of sources for most of the other raw materials that we do not produce. We do not have long-term or volume purchase agreements with most of our suppliers, and may have limited options in the short-term for alternative supply if these suppliers fail to continue the supply of material or components for any reason, including their business failure, inability to obtain raw materials or financial difficulties. Moreover, identifying and accessing alternative sources may increase our costs. • Failure to negotiate extensions of our labor agreements as they expire may result in a disruption of our operations. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 60% of our employees were represented by various labor unions. During the five calendar years ended December 31, 2005 we have experienced only three strikes, which were settled on satisfactory terms. The only strike that occurred in 2005 was at our Lincoln, Rhode Island manufacturing facility, and it lasted approximately two weeks. This strike did not have a significant impact on our financial results for the first fiscal quarter of 2005. We are party to labor agreements with unions that represent employees at many of our operational facilities. Labor agreements expired at three facilities in 2005 and were successfully renegotiated. Labor agreements are to expire at one facility in 2006. We cannot predict what issues may be raised by the collective bargaining units representing our employees and, if raised, whether negotiations concerning such issues will be successfully concluded. A protracted work stoppage could result in a disruption of our operations which could adversely affect our ability to deliver certain products and our financial results. • Our inability to continue to achieve productivity improvements may result in increased costs. Part of our business strategy is to increase our profitability by lowering costs through improving our processes and productivity. In the event we are unable to continue to implement measures improving our manufacturing techniques and processes, we may not achieve desired efficiency or productivity levels and our manufacturing costs may increase. In addition, productivity increases are related in part to factory utilization rates. Our decreased utilization rates over the past few years have adversely impacted productivity. However, we have experienced an increase in utilization rates in 2005. • We are substantially dependent upon distributors and retailers for non-exclusive sales of our products and they could cease purchasing our products at any time. During 2004 and 2005, approximately 38% and 39%, respectively, of our domestic net sales were made to independent distributors and three and four, respectively, of our ten largest customers were distributors. Distributors accounted for a substantial portion of sales of our communications products and industrial & specialty products. During 2004 and 2005, approximately 13% and 11%, respectively, of our domestic net sales were to retailers, and the two largest retailers, The Home Depot and AutoZone, accounted for approximately 3% and 2%, respectively, of our worldwide net sales in 2005 and 2004. These distributors and retailers are not contractually obligated to carry our product lines exclusively or for any period of time. Therefore, these distributors and retailers may purchase products that compete with our products or cease purchasing our products at any time. The loss of one or more large distributors or retailers could have a material adverse effect on our ability to bring our products to end users and on our results of operations. Moreover, a downturn in the business of one or more large distributors or retailers could adversely affect our sales and could create significant credit exposure. • We face pricing pressures in each of our markets that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial performance. We face pricing pressures in each of our markets as a result of significant competition or over-capacity, and price levels for most of our products declined from 2002 through early 2004. While we will work toward reducing our costs to respond to the pricing pressures that may continue, we may not be able to achieve proportionate reductions in costs. As a result of over-capacity and economic and industry downturn in the communications and industrial markets in particular, pricing pressures increased in 2002 and 2003, and continued into 2004. While we generally have been successful in raising prices to recover increased raw material costs since the second quarter of 2004, pricing pressures continued throughout 2005, and are expected for the foreseeable future. Further declines in prices, without offsetting cost reductions, would adversely affect our financial results. • If either of our uncommitted accounts payable or accounts receivable financing arrangements for our European operations is cancelled, our liquidity will be negatively impacted. 14 Table of Contents Our European operations participate in arrangements with several European financial institutions that provide extended accounts payable terms to us. In general, the arrangements provide for accounts payable terms of up to 180 days. As of December 31, 2005, the arrangements had a maximum availability limit of the equivalent of approximately $136.2 million, of which approximately $112.4 million was drawn. We do not have firm commitments from these European financial institutions requiring them to continue to extend credit and they may decline to advance additional funding. We also have an approximate $37.8 million Euro-denominated uncommitted facility in Europe, which allows us to sell at a discount, with limited recourse, a portion of our accounts receivable to a financial institution. As of December 31, 2005, this accounts receivable facility was not drawn upon. We do not have a firm commitment from this institution to purchase our accounts receivable. Should the availability under these arrangements be reduced or terminated, we would be required to negotiate longer payment terms with our suppliers or repay the outstanding obligations with our suppliers under these arrangements over 180 days and seek alternative financing arrangements which could increase our interest expense. We cannot assure you that such longer payment terms or alternate financing will be available on favorable terms or at all. Failure to obtain alternative financing arrangements in such case would negatively impact our liquidity. • We may be required to take additional charges in connection with plant closures and in connection with our inventory accounting practices. During 2004, we closed two industrial manufacturing locations, refocused operations at another industrial manufacturing location and ceased operations at our copper rod mill. We incurred net charges of $7.4 million ($4.7 million of which were cash) in 2004 related to the industrial manufacturing plants and a net gain of $0.3 million related to the rod mill, all of which are now completely closed. In 2005, we closed our telecommunications manufacturing plant located in Bonham, Texas. At that time, we also closed our fiber optic military and premise cable manufacturing plant located in Dayville, Connecticut, and relocated production from this plant to our acquired facility in Franklin, Massachusetts, which produces copper as well as some fiber optic communications products. The total cost of these closures was approximately $19.1 million (of which approximately $7.5 million were cash payments). Total costs recorded during 2005 with respect to these closures were $18.6 million (of which approximately $7.5 million were cash payments), including a $(0.5) million gain from the sale of a previously closed manufacturing plant. We continuously evaluate our ability to more efficiently utilize existing manufacturing capacity which may require additional future charges. As a result of volatile copper prices, the replacement cost of our copper inventory exceeded its historic LIFO cost by approximately $38 million and $13 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively and by approximately $107 million at December 31, 2005. If we are not able to recover the LIFO value of our inventory at a profit in some future period when replacement costs were lower than the LIFO value of the inventory, we would be required to take a charge to recognize on our income statement all or a portion of the higher LIFO value of the inventory. During 2003, we recorded a $0.5 million charge for the liquidation of LIFO inventory in North America as we significantly reduced our inventory levels. During 2004, we increased inventory quantities and therefore there was not a liquidation of LIFO inventory impact in this period. During 2005, we reduced our copper inventory quantities in North America which resulted in a $1.1 million gain since LIFO inventory quantities were reduced in a period when replacement costs where higher than the LIFO value of the inventory. If LIFO inventory quantities are reduced in a future period when replacement costs exceed the LIFO value of the inventory, we would experience an increase in reported earnings. Conversely, if LIFO inventory quantities are reduced in a future period when replacement costs are lower than the LIFO value of the inventory, we would experience a decline in reported earnings. • We are subject to certain asbestos litigation and unexpected judgments or settlements that could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. There are approximately 9,300 pending non-maritime asbestos cases involving our subsidiaries. The majority of these cases involve plaintiffs alleging exposure to asbestos-containing cable manufactured by our predecessors. In addition to our subsidiaries, numerous other wire and cable manufacturers have been named as defendants in these cases. Our subsidiaries have also been named, along with numerous other product manufacturers, as defendants in approximately 33,300 suits in which plaintiffs alleged that they suffered an asbestos-related injury while working in the maritime industry. These cases are referred to as MARDOC cases and are currently managed under the supervision of the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. On May 1, 1996, the District Court ordered that all pending MARDOC cases be administratively dismissed without prejudice and the cases cannot be reinstated, except in certain circumstances involving specific proof of injury. We cannot assure you that any judgments or settlements of the pending non-maritime and/or MARDOC asbestos cases or any cases which may be filed in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our financial results, cash flows or financial position. Moreover, certain of our insurers, such as the insurers discussed as part of a settlement agreement in 15 Table of Contents Item 3, may be financially unstable and in the event one or more of these insurers enter into insurance liquidation proceedings, we will be required to pay a larger portion of the costs incurred in connection with these cases. • Environmental liabilities could potentially adversely impact us and our affiliates. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental protection laws and regulations governing our operations and the use, handling, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances currently or formerly used by us and our affiliates. A risk of environmental liability is inherent in our and our affiliates’ current and former manufacturing activities in the event of a release or discharge of a hazardous substance generated by us or our affiliates. Under certain environmental laws, we could be held jointly and severally responsible for the remediation of any hazardous substance contamination at our facilities and at third party waste disposal sites and could also be held liable for any consequences arising out of human exposure to such substances or other environmental damage. We and our affiliates have been named as potentially responsible parties in proceedings that involve environmental remediation. There can be no assurance that the costs of complying with environmental, health and safety laws and requirements in our current operations or the liabilities arising from past releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, will not result in future expenditures by us that could materially and adversely affect our financial results, cash flows or financial condition. • Growth through acquisition has been a significant part of our strategy and we may not be able to successfully identify, finance or integrate acquisitions. Growth through acquisition has been, and is expected to continue to be, a significant part of our strategy. For example, in December 2005 we completed the acquisition of Silec®, the wire and cable manufacturing business of SAFRAN SA, a diverse, global high-technology company based in Paris, France. We also completed the acquisition of the Mexican ignition wire set business of Beru AG, a worldwide leading manufacturer of diesel cold start systems. We regularly evaluate possible acquisition candidates. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in identifying, financing and closing acquisitions at favorable prices and terms. Potential acquisitions may require us to issue additional shares of stock or obtain additional or new financing, and such financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. The issuance of our common or preferred shares may dilute the value of shares held by our equity holders. Further, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in integrating any such acquisitions that are completed. Integration of any such acquisitions may require substantial management, financial and other resources and may pose risks with respect to production, customer service and market share of existing operations. In addition, we may acquire businesses that are subject to technological or competitive risks, and we may not be able to realize the benefits expected from such acquisitions. • Terrorist attacks and other attacks or acts of war may adversely affect the markets in which we operate and our profitability. The attacks of September 11, 2001 and subsequent events, including the military action in Iraq, have caused and may continue to cause instability in our markets and have led and may continue to lead to, further armed hostilities or further acts of terrorism worldwide, which could cause further disruption in our markets. Acts of terrorism may impact any or all of our facilities and operations, or those of our customers or suppliers and may further limit or delay purchasing decisions of our customers. Depending on their magnitude, acts of terrorism or war could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial results, cash flows and financial position. We carry insurance coverage on our facilities of types and in amounts that we believe are in line with coverage customarily obtained by owners of similar properties. We continue to monitor the state of the insurance market in general and the scope and cost of coverage for acts of terrorism in particular, but we cannot anticipate what coverage will be available on commercially reasonable terms in future policy years. Currently, we do not carry terrorism insurance coverage. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged facilities, as well as the anticipated future net sales from those facilities. Depending on the specific circumstances of each affected facility, it is possible that we could be liable for indebtedness or other obligations related to the facility. Any such loss could materially and adversely affect our business, financial results, cash flows and financial position. • If we fail to retain our key employees, our business may be harmed. Our success has been largely dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our key employees and the loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could have an adverse effect on us. The loss of our key employees who have intimate knowledge of our manufacturing process could lead to increased competition to the extent that those employees are hired by a competitor and are able to recreate our manufacturing process. Our future success will also depend in part upon our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, who are in great demand. 16 Table of Contents • Our substantial debt could adversely affect our business. We have a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2005, we had $451.6 million of debt outstanding, $166.6 million of which was secured indebtedness, and had $147.7 million of additional borrowing capacity available under our senior secured credit facility and $53.4 million of additional borrowing capacity under the Spanish subsidiary’s term loan and revolving credit facilities, subject to certain conditions. As of December 31, 2005, we had $285.0 million in senior notes outstanding. Subject to the terms of the senior secured credit facility, the Spanish subsidiary’s term loan and revolving credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior notes, we may also incur additional indebtedness, including secured debt, in the future. See Item 7 of this document for details on the various debt agreements. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important adverse consequences to us, limiting management’s choices in responding to business, economic, regulatory and other competitive conditions. In addition, our ability to generate cash flow from operations sufficient to make scheduled payments on our debt as they become due will depend on our future performance, our ability to successfully implement our business strategy and our ability to obtain other financing. Our indebtedness could also adversely affect our financial position. In connection with the incurrence of indebtedness under our senior secured credit facility, the lenders under that facility have received a pledge of all of the capital stock of our existing domestic subsidiaries and any future domestic subsidiaries. Additionally, these lenders have a lien on substantially all of our domestic assets, including our existing and future accounts receivables, cash, general intangibles, investment property and real property. As a result of these pledges and liens, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under our senior secured credit facility, the lenders under the credit agreement would be entitled to foreclose on substantially all of our assets and liquidate these assets. • As of December 31, 2004, we had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, which were remediated in 2005. In connection with the preparation of our 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K, as of December 31, 2004, we concluded that control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004 constituted material weaknesses within the meaning of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board’s Auditing Standard No. 2, An Audit of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Performed in Conjunction with an Audit of Financial Statements. As we disclosed in our amended 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K that we filed with the SEC on April 29, 2005, we identified the following material weaknesses: • Controls over access to computer applications and segregation of duties with respect to both our manual and computer-based business processes. • Controls over the recording of inventory shipments and revenue in the proper accounting period. • Controls over the recording of receiving transactions and non-purchase order based accounts payable transactions in the proper accounting period. • Controls over the liability estimation and accrual process, including income tax reserves. • Controls over finished goods inventory on consignment at customer locations. • The design and implementation of adequate controls to address the existence and completeness of fixed assets included in the financial statements, including returnable shipping reels, and the effectiveness of controls over recording of fixed asset acquisitions in the proper accounting period. • The design of adequate controls relating to the purchasing function, including review and approval of significant third-party contracts and the maintenance of vendor master files. • The design and implementation of adequate controls over the financial reporting and close process, including controls over non-routine transactions. These deficiencies were primarily attributable to the sufficiency of personnel with appropriate qualifications and training in certain key accounting roles in order to complete and document the monthly and quarterly financial closing process. • The general control environment was ineffective due to the aggregation of the material weaknesses listed above. Throughout 2005, we implemented numerous improvements to internal control over financial reporting to address these material weaknesses. These improvements included the following: • We added personnel with technical accounting experience; • We performed a substantial amount of work on formalizing, implementing, and enforcing new and updated policies in business processes that impact financial reporting, including the compliance process; 17 Table of Contents • We implemented increased levels of review of complex and judgmental accounting issues with a greater focus on evidentiary support for control processes; • We realigned job responsibilities and restricted system access, as well as adding other mitigating controls such as exception reports to eliminate segregation of duties issues; • We implemented enhanced shipment reporting and accounting procedures to ensure proper accounting cut-off; • We formalized and enhanced our monitoring of when title passes in all purchase transactions; • We added additional controls over accruing for non-purchase order based transactions; • We improved the interim and annual review and reconciliation process for certain key account balances; • We refined procedures over accounting for fixed assets; • And we implemented additional controls over the accounting for finished goods inventory on consignment at customer locations. While these improvements have been fully implemented and tested and we have concluded that as of December 31, 2005, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective, a risk exists that there may be weaknesses identified in the future. • Declining returns in the investment portfolio of our defined benefit plans and changes in actuarial assumptions could increase the volatility in our pension expense and require us to increase cash contributions to the plans. Pension expense for the defined benefit pension plans sponsored by us is determined based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including an expected long-term rate of return on assets and discount rate. During the fourth quarter of 2005, as a result of worse than expected investment asset performance and changes in certain actuarial assumptions, including the discount rate and mortality rate, we were required to record an additional minimum pension liability on our books to an amount equal to the underfunded status of the plans. As of December 31, 2005, the defined benefit plans were underfunded by approximately $40.9 million based on the actuarial methods and assumptions utilized for purposes of the applicable accounting rules and interpretations. The underfunding of the defined benefit plans at December 31, 2004 and 2003 was $33.0 million and $39.9 million, respectively. We have experienced volatility in our pension expense and in our cash contributions to our defined benefit pension plan. Pension expense for our defined benefit plans decreased from $8.4 million in 2003 to $5.5 million in 2004 and our required cash contributions increased to $13.0 million in 2004 from $6.1 million in 2003. In 2005, pension expense for our defined benefit plans decreased approximately $0.8 million from 2004, excluding $0.7 million of curtailment expense booked in 2005 related to the Bonham plant closure, and cash contributions decreased by $2.2 million. In the event that actual results differ from the actuarial assumptions or actuarial assumptions are changed, the funded status of our defined benefit plans may change and any such deficiency could result in additional charges to equity and an increase in future pension expense and cash contributions. • An ownership change could result in a limitation of the use of our net operating losses. As of December 31, 2005, we had U.S. net operating loss, or NOL, carryforwards of approximately $149 million available to reduce taxable income in future years. Specifically, we have NOL carryforwards of approximately $127 million that were generated between 2000 and 2004. These NOL carryforwards will not begin to expire until 2020. We also have other NOL carryforwards that are subject to an annual limitation under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. These Section 382 limited NOL carryforwards expire in varying amounts from 2007 to 2009. The total Section 382 limited NOL carryforwards that may be utilized prior to expiration is estimated at approximately $21.5 million. Our ability to utilize the NOL carryforwards may be further limited by Section 382 if we undergo an ownership change as a result of the sale of our stock by holders of our equity securities or as a result of subsequent changes in the ownership of our outstanding stock. We would undergo an ownership change if, among other things, the stockholders, or group of stockholders, who own or have owned, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of the value of our stock or are otherwise treated as 5% stockholders under Section 382 and the regulations promulgated thereunder increase their aggregate percentage ownership of our stock by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of our stock owned by these stockholders at any time during the testing period, which is generally the three-year period preceding the potential ownership change. In the event of an ownership change, Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the amount of post-ownership change taxable income a corporation may offset with pre-ownership change NOL carryforwards and certain recognized built-in losses. The limitation imposed by Section 382 for any post-change year would be determined by multiplying the value of our stock immediately before the ownership change (subject to certain adjustments) by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate in effect at the time of the ownership change. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years, and the limitation may under certain circumstances be increased by built-in gains which may be present in assets held by us at the time of the ownership change that are recognized in the five-year period after the ownership change. 18 Table of Contents • Our stock has been and continues to be volatile, and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock may be limited. The value of our securities may fluctuate as a result of various factors, such as: • Announcements relating to significant corporate transactions; • Fluctuations in our quarterly and annual financial results; • Operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to us; • Changes in government regulation or proposals relating thereto; • General industry and economic conditions; • Sales or the expectation of sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market; and • General stock market fluctuations unrelated to the operating performance of our Company. In addition, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock may be limited based upon our financial condition, capital requirements, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Further, our senior secured revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our Senior Notes restrict our ability to pay cash dividends. Agreements governing future indebtedness will likely contain restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends as well. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 