ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS FROM TIME TO TIME, IN BOTH WRITTEN REPORTS AND IN ORAL STATEMENTS BY THE COMPANY'S SENIOR MANAGEMENT, EXPECTATIONS AND OTHER STATEMENTS ARE EXPRESSED REGARDING THE COMPANY'S FUTURE PERFORMANCE. THESE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS ARE INHERENTLY UNCERTAIN AND INVESTORS MUST RECOGNIZE THAT EVENTS COULD TURN OUT TO BE DIFFERENT THAN SUCH EXPECTATIONS AND STATEMENTS. KEY FACTORS IMPACTING THE COMPANY'S CURRENT AND FUTURE PERFORMANCE ARE DISCUSSED ELSEWHERE IN THIS REPORT AND IN THE COMPANY'S OTHER FILINGS WITH THE SEC. IN ADDITION TO SUCH INFORMATION, INVESTORS SHOULD CONSIDER THE FOLLOWING RISK FACTORS IN EVALUATING THE COMPANY AND ITS BUSINESS, AS WELL AS IN REVIEWING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS CONTAINED IN THIS REPORT AND IN THE COMPANY'S OTHER REPORTS THAT IT FILES WITH THE SEC AND IN ORAL STATEMENTS MADE BY ITS SENIOR MANAGEMENT. THE COMPANY'S ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM SUCH FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS DUE TO MATERIAL RISKS, UNCERTAINTIES AND CONTINGENCIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THOSE DISCUSSED BELOW. Stringent Government Regulation The Company's products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and, in some jurisdictions, by state, local and foreign governmental authorities. In particular, the Company must obtain specific clearance or approval from the FDA before it can market new products or certain modified products in the United States. In the United States, permission to distribute a new device generally can be met either through a 510(k) premarket notification or an application for a premarket approval, or PMA. Under the FDA's requirements, if a manufacturer can establish that a newly developed device is "substantially equivalent" to a legally marketed predicate device, the manufacturer may seek marketing clearance from the FDA to market the device by filing a 510(k) premarket notification with the FDA. With the exception of one IAB product, the Company has, to date, obtained FDA marketing clearance for its products only through the 510(k) premarket notification process. The 510(k) premarket notification must be (8) supported by data establishing the claim of substantial equivalence to the satisfaction of the FDA. The process of obtaining a 510(k) clearance is normally three months or less. However, this process may take several months to a year or longer. If substantial equivalence cannot be established or if the FDA determines that additional safety and effectiveness data is required to support an approval, the FDA will require that the manufacturer submit a PMA application that must be approved by the FDA prior to marketing the device in the United States. The PMA application must be supported by extensive data, including preclinical (laboratory) data and human clinical data, to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the device with respect to its intended use disclosed in the application. Certain of the Company's products, including the IAB and IAB pump and CorAideTM ventricular assist device currently under development, require approval through the more rigorous PMA application process. By regulation, the FDA has 180 days to review a PMA application and during that time an advisory committee may evaluate the application and provide recommendations to the FDA. While the FDA has approved PMA applications within the allotted time period, review more often occurs over a significantly protracted period, usually 18 to 36 months, and some devices may never be approved for marketing. The process of obtaining 510(k) clearances or PMAs can be time consuming and expensive. There can be no assurance that the FDA will grant all such clearances or approvals sought by the Company or that FDA review will not involve delays adversely affecting the marketing and sale of its products. Both a 510(k) premarket notification and a PMA application, if approved, may also include significant limitations on the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed. FDA enforcement policy prohibits the promotion of approved medical devices for unapproved uses. In addition, product approvals can be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial marketing. The FDA often requires post-market surveillance requirements for significant risk devices, such as ventricular assist devices, that require ongoing collection of clinical data during commercialization, which must be gathered, analyzed and submitted to the FDA periodically for up to several years. These data collection requirements can be burdensome. The Company is also required to adhere to applicable U.S. and international quality system regulations, which require that the Company manufacture its products and maintain its records in a prescribed manner with respect to design, test, and manufacturing and quality control activities. To the extent that any quality issues are identified with respect to the Company's products, the Company could be subject to substantial costs and write-offs, which could materially impact its results of operations. In addition, the Company is required to comply with FDA requirements for labeling and promotion of its products. Medical device laws are also in effect in many of the countries outside the U.S. in which the Company does business. These laws range from comprehensive device approval and quality system requirements for some or all of the Company's products to simpler requests for product data, certifications or compliance with packaging or labeling requirements. Many of the regulations applicable to the Company's products in foreign countries are similar to those of the FDA and the number, scope and stringency of these requirements are increasing, which is adding to the delays and uncertainties associated with new product releases, as well as the clinical and regulatory costs of supporting such releases. For example, in the European Union, a single regulatory approval process has been created, with approval represented by the CE-mark. Although the Company has to date received authorization to CE-mark many of its more innovative products, including its Cannon Catheter(TM), there can be no assurance that its other products under development will be able to meet this stringent requirement for marketing a medical device in the European Union. The regulation of medical devices in Japan is governed by the Pharmaceutical Affairs Law, or the PAL. Under the PAL, medical device manufacturers outside of Japan, such as the Company, must appoint a Marketing Authorization Holder, or MAH, located in Japan that holds a license to import and sell medical devices, and provide primary distribution services, including conducting quality assurance and safety control tasks for each such device. The PAL was amended in July 2006 to require foreign manufacturing facility accreditation by the MAH and also to permit the Japanese Government, through the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare, to inspect foreign manufacturing facilities that produce medical devices that are imported into Japan. The Company is in the process of completing product documentation files and other procedures for compliance with the amended PAL. In addition, the Company is required to notify the FDA if it exports to certain countries medical devices manufactured in the U.S. that have not been cleared by the FDA for distribution in the U.S. Failure to comply with applicable federal, state, local or foreign laws or regulations could subject the Company to enforcement action, including product seizures, recalls, operating restrictions, withdrawal of marketing clearances or approvals or other required licenses, prohibition against importation of products from manufacturing facilities outside the U.S., and civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion under Medicaid or Medicare, any one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations regarding the development, manufacture and sale of medical devices are subject to future changes. There can be no assurance that such changes will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Significant Competition and Continual Technological Change The markets for medical devices are highly competitive. The Company currently competes with many companies in the development and marketing of catheters and related medical devices, as well as for establishing relationships with academic and research institutes, intellectual property licenses and collaborative development agreements. Some of the Company's competitors have access to greater financial and other resources than it does. Furthermore, the markets for medical devices are characterized by rapid product development and technological change. Technological advances by one or more of the Company's current or future competitors could render its present or future products obsolete or uneconomical. The Company's future success will depend upon its ability to develop new products and technology to remain competitive with other developers of catheters and related medical devices, as well as to address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of its prospective consumers. The Company's business strategy emphasizes the continued development and commercialization of new products and the enhancement of existing products for the critical care and cardiac care (9) markets. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to successfully develop new products and to enhance existing products, to manufacture these products in a commercially viable manner, to obtain required regulatory approvals or to gain satisfactory market acceptance for its products. Health Care Cost Containment and Third Party Reimbursement The Company's products are purchased principally by hospitals, hospital networks and hospital buying groups. Although its products are used primarily for non-optional medical procedures, the Company believes that the overall, escalating cost of medical products and services has led and will continue to lead to increased pressures upon the health care industry to reduce the cost or usage of certain products and services. In the United States, these cost pressures have led to increased emphasis on the price and cost-effectiveness of any treatment regimen and medical device. Third party payors, such as governmental programs (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid), private insurance plans and managed care plans, which are billed by hospitals for such health care services, are increasingly negotiating the prices charged for medical products and services and may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device was not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods as determined by the payor, was experimental, unnecessary or used for an unapproved indication. As a result, even though a new medical device may have been approved by the FDA, the Company may find limited demand for the device until reimbursement approval has been obtained from governmental and private third party payors. If reimbursement for the Company's products is not available or at an insufficient level, the Company would not be able to sell its products on a competitive basis. In international markets, reimbursement systems vary significantly by country. Many international markets have government managed health care systems that control reimbursement for certain medical devices and procedures and, in most such markets, there also are private insurance systems which impose similar cost restraints. There can be no assurance that hospital purchasing decisions or government or private third party reimbursement policies in the United States or in international markets will not adversely affect the profitability of the Company's products. Several comprehensive health care reform proposals have been, and continue to be, considered by the U.S. Congress. While none of these proposals have to date been adopted, the intent of these proposals was, generally, to expand health care coverage for the uninsured and reduce the rate of growth of total health care expenditures. In addition, certain states have made significant changes to their Medicaid programs and have adopted various measures to expand coverage and limit costs. Several foreign countries in which the Company does business are also considering, and in some countries have already adopted, similar reforms to limit the growth of health care costs, including price regulation. Implementation of government health care reform, and other efforts to control costs may limit the price of, or the level at which reimbursement is provided for, the Company's products. The Company anticipates that the U.S. Congress, state legislatures, foreign governments and the private sector will continue to review and assess alternative health care delivery and payment systems. The Company cannot predict what additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the health care industry may be enacted in the future or what impact the adoption of any federal, state or foreign health care reform, private sector reform or market forces may have on its business. There can be no assurance that any such reforms will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations. Consolidation within the Medical Device Industry In keeping with the increased emphasis on cost-effectiveness in health care delivery, the current trend among hospitals and other customers of medical device manufacturers is to consolidate into larger purchasing groups to enhance purchasing power. As a result, transactions with customers tend to be larger, more complex and involve more long-term contracts than in the past. If the Company is not one of the providers selected by a purchasing group, it may be precluded from making sales to members of the purchasing group. Even if the Company is one of the selected providers, it may be at a disadvantage relative to other selected providers that are able to offer volume discounts based on purchases of a broader range of medical equipment and supplies. Furthermore, the enhanced purchasing power of these larger customers may also increase the pressure on pricing of the Company's products and the Company may be required to commit to a pricing level that has a material adverse effect on its sales and profit margins, business, financial condition and results of operation. The medical device industry has also experienced some consolidation, partly in order to offer a broader range of products to large purchasers. As these consolidations occur, competition to provide products like the Company's will become more intense. To the extent that the Company is forced to reduce its prices, its business will become less profitable unless it is able to achieve corresponding reductions in its expenses. Dependence on Patents and Proprietary Rights The Company owns numerous U.S. and foreign patents and has several U.S. and foreign patent applications pending. The Company also has exclusive license rights to certain patents held by third parties. These patents relate to aspects of the technology used in certain of the Company's products. In addition, certain of the Company's patents are due to expire within the next two years, including a U.S. patent related to the original formulation of its ARROWg+ard(R) antiseptic surface treatment. The number of units sold in the U.S. with the original formulation of the ARROWg+ard(R) antiseptic surface treatment as a percentage of the Company's total U.S. multilumen and hemodialysis unit sales was 18% in fiscal 2006. In recent years, the Company has been converting many of its sales of ARROWg+ard(R) coated products from the original formulation to the newer, longer lasting ARROWg+ard(R) BluePlus formulation and believes that this transition will reduce the potential risk associated with the expiration of the patent related to the original ARROWg+ard(R) formulation. The Company may be unsuccessful in its efforts to extend patent protection through improvement patents or modifications, and the failure to maintain its patents could have a material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, there can be no assurance that pending patent applications will result in issued patents or that patents issued to or licensed-in by the Company will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors or found to be valid or sufficiently broad to protect its technology or to provide it with any competitive advantage. The Company also relies on trade secrets and proprietary technology that it seeks to protect, in part, through confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and other parties. There can be no assurance that (10) these agreements will not be breached, that the Company will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to its trade secrets. The Company expends significant resources to monitor and enforce its intellectual property rights. However, it may not be able to detect infringement and its competitive position in the industry could be materially adversely affected. There has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device industry. From time to time, the Company is subject to legal actions involving patent and other intellectual property claims. Successful litigation against the Company regarding its patents or infringement of the patent rights of others could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Historically, litigation has also been necessary to enforce and defend certain patent and trademark rights held by the Company. Future litigation may be necessary to enforce patent and other intellectual property rights belonging to the Company, to protect its trade secrets or other know-how owned by it, or to defend itself against claimed infringement of the rights of others and to determine the scope and validity of its and others' proprietary rights. Any such litigation could result in substantial cost to and diversion of effort by the Company. Adverse determinations in any such litigation could subject the Company to significant liabilities to third parties, require it to seek licenses from third parties for significant royalties or prevent it from manufacturing, selling or using certain of its products, any one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Associated with International Operations Because the Company generates significant sales outside of the United States and many of its manufacturing facilities and suppliers are located outside of the U.S., it is subject to risks generally associated with international operations, such as: unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; differing labor regulations; longer payment cycles and problems in collecting accounts receivable; risks arising from a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, including the possibility of terrorist actions and economic destabilization of a region; destruction or natural disasters in significant geographical areas where the Company or its suppliers have manufacturing facilities; outbreak of life threatening communicable disease; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; foreign exchange controls that restrict or prohibit repatriation of funds; export and import restrictions or prohibitions; delays from customs brokers or government agencies; changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs; differing protection of intellectual property; and potentially adverse tax consequences resulting from operating in multiple jurisdictions with different tax laws. Any one or more of these risks could materially adversely impact the success of the Company's international operations. As the Company's revenues from international operations increase, an increasing portion of its revenues and expenses are being denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars and, consequently, changes in exchange rates are having a greater effect on its operations. Inventory management is a concern in international operations due to the potential for rapidly changing business conditions and currency exposure. There can be no assurance that such factors will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that laws or administrative practices relating to regulation of medical devices, labor, taxation, foreign exchange or other matters of countries within which the Company operates will not change. Any such change could also have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Potential Product Liability The Company's business exposes it to potential product liability risks which are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of catheters and related medical devices. The Company's products are often used in surgical and intensive care settings with seriously ill patients. In addition, many of the medical devices manufactured and sold by the Company are designed to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time, and component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks with respect to these or other products manufactured or sold by the Company could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, the patient. The occurrence of such a problem could result in product liability claims and/or a recall of, or safety alert relating to, one or more of the Company's products. There can be no assurance that the product liability insurance maintained by the Company will be available or sufficient to satisfy all claims made against it or that it will be able to obtain insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts. Product liability claims, safety alerts or product recalls in the future, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could result in costly litigation and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, reputation, its ability to attract and retain customers for its products and its results of operations. In recent years, physicians, hospitals and other medical service providers who are users of the Company's products have become subject to an increasing number of lawsuits alleging medical malpractice. Medical malpractice suits often involve large claims and substantial defense costs. The Company is subject to the risks associated with any such medical malpractice lawsuits. Supply Interruptions Raw materials and purchased components relating to the Company's business have typically been available within the lead times required by the Company. However, there can be no assurance that they will continue to be available on the same terms. The Company maintains single suppliers for certain of its out-sourced components, and, although it has considered and continues to explore alternative vendors for many of these items, there can be no certainty that suitable alternative vendors, if needed, could be identified. Furthermore, the Company does not typically pursue regulatory qualification of alternative sources due to the strength of its existing supplier relationships and the time and expense associated with the regulatory validation process. If the Company were unable to obtain these raw materials or there were a significant increase in the price of essential materials or components, its business could be harmed. Dependence upon Strong Relationships with Physicians The research, development, marketing and sale of many of the Company's products is dependent upon the Company maintaining strong working relationships with physicians and other health care professionals. The Company relies on these professionals to provide it with considerable knowledge and experience regarding its products and the marketing of its products. (11) Physicians assist the Company as researchers, marketing consultants, product consultants, inventors and as public speakers. If the Company fails to maintain its working relationships with physicians and receive the benefits of their knowledge, advice and input, many of its products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support its products, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Associated with Derivative Financial Instruments As a partial hedge against adverse fluctuations in exchange rates, the Company periodically enters into foreign currency exchange contracts with certain major financial institutions. By their nature, all such contracts involve risk, including the risk of nonperformance by counterparties. Accordingly, losses relating to these contracts could have a material adverse effect upon the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company's Foreign Currency Management Policy prohibits the use of derivative instruments for speculative purposes. Dependence on Key Management The Company's success depends upon the continued contributions of key members of its senior management team. Accordingly, loss of the services of one or more of these key members of management could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. None of these individuals has an employment agreement with the Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 