ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to a number of risks listed below, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the value of our securities.Certain statements in the 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K including, without limitation, statements regarding future financial results and performance, plans and objectives, capital expenditures, understanding of competition, projected sources of cash flow, potential legal liability, proposed legislation and regulatory action, and our management's beliefs, expectations or opinions, are forward-looking statements, and as such, we desire to take advantage of the “safe harbor” which is afforded such statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our forward-looking statements should be read in conjunction with our comments in this report under the heading, “Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Actual results may differ materially from those statements as a result of factors, risks and uncertainties over which we have no control. The risk factors discussed below are all of the material risks and uncertainties that we know to exist. However, additional risks that are currently unknown to us may also impair our business or adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.•Our net sales, net income and growth depend largely on the economic strength of the geographic markets that we serve, and if these markets become weaker, we could experience decreased sales and net income.Many of our customers use our products as components in their own products or in projects undertaken for their customers. Our ability to sell our products is largely dependent on general economic conditions, including end user spending on power transmission and distribution infrastructures, industrial manufacturing assets, new construction and building, information technology and maintaining or reconfiguring their communications networks. In periods of negative or no economic growth, we would likely experience a decrease in sales and net income. 9Table of Contents•Volatility in the price of copper and aluminum and other raw materials, as well as fuel and energy, could adversely affect our businesses.The costs of copper and aluminum, the most significant raw materials we use, have been subject to considerable volatility caused by supply conditions, weather, political and economic variables as well as other unknown and unpredictable variables. Other raw materials such as fuel and energy have additionally been subject to considerable volatility. The Company typically passes these changes in copper and aluminum prices along to its customers, although there are timing delays of varying lengths depending upon the volatility of metals prices, the type of product, competitive conditions, pricing mechanisms and particular customer arrangements. Although the general trends are detailed in Item 1 - Business – Raw Materials, there is no exact future measure of the effect of the change of raw material cost inputs due to the unique set of selling variables and the high volume of transactions in any given period, each of which involves numerous individual pricing decisions. To help reduce this volatility, the Company has implemented pricing mechanisms and hedges a portion of its metal purchases when there is a firm price commitment for a future delivery. In addition, we may be required to recognize an expense to record our inventory at market value, which would negatively impact our financial results. Although we attempt to recover copper and aluminum and other raw material price changes either in the selling price of our products or through commodity hedging programs, there is no assurance that we can do so successfully or at all in the future. •The markets for our products are highly competitive, and if we fail to successfully invest in product development, productivity improvements and customer service and support, sales of our products could be adversely affected. The markets for copper, aluminum and fiber optic wire and cable products are highly competitive and some of our competitors may have greater financial resources than we have. We compete with at least one major competitor with respect to each of our business segments. Many of our products are made to common specifications and, therefore, may be interchangeable with competitors' products. Accordingly, we are subject to competition in many markets on the basis of price, quality, breadth of product line, inventory, delivery time, customer service, the environmental impact of our products, and the ability to meet the customer's needs.We believe that competitors will continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive price and performance characteristics. We expect that we will be required to continue to invest in product development, productivity improvements and customer service and support in order to compete in our markets. Furthermore, an increase in imports of competing products could adversely affect our sales on a region by region basis. •Our business is subject to the economic, political and other risks of maintaining facilities and selling products in foreign countries. During the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 57% of our sales and approximately 71% of our assets were in markets outside of North America. Our operations outside of North America reported operating cash outflows of approximately $76.8 million during this period. Some of our facilities, in particular, certain locations such as Algeria, Angola, Egypt, India, Pakistan, the Philippines, Thailand, and Venezuela, among others, are at higher risk of being targets of economic and political destabilization, international conflicts, restrictive actions by foreign governments, nationalizations or expropriations, changes in regulatory requirements, the difficulty of effectively managing diverse global operations, terrorist activities, natural disasters, adverse foreign tax laws and the threat posed by potential pandemics in countries that do not have the resources necessary to deal with such outbreaks. Our financial results may be adversely affected by the enactment of exchange controls or foreign governmental or regulatory restrictions on the transfer of funds. In addition, negative tax consequences relating to the repatriation of certain foreign income may adversely affect our cash flows. Over time, we intend to continue to expand our foreign operations, which would serve to exacerbate these risks and their potential effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Economic and political developments in the countries in which we have operations, including future economic changes or crises (such as inflation, currency devaluation or recession), government deadlock, political instability, political activism, terrorist activities, civil strife, international conflicts, changes in laws and regulations and expropriation or nationalization of property or other resources, could impact our operations or the market value of our common stock and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. •In each of our markets, we face pricing pressures. Such pricing pressures could adversely affect our results of operations and financial performance. We face pricing pressures in each of our markets as a result of significant competition or over-capacity. In order to respond to these pricing pressures, we continually work toward reducing our costs through improving our processes and productivity. In the event we are unable to implement cost reduction measures that are designed to improve our manufacturing techniques and processes, we may not achieve desired efficiency or productivity levels or reduce our manufacturing costs. In addition, productivity increases are related in part to factory utilization rates. Decreases in utilization rates may adversely impact productivity. Further pricing pressures, without offsetting cost reductions, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial performance. 10Table of Contents•Growth through acquisition has been a significant part of our strategy and we may not be able to successfully identify, obtain or integrate acquisitions. Growth through acquisition has been, and is expected to continue to be, a significant part of our strategy. We regularly evaluate possible acquisition candidates. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, financing and closing acquisitions at favorable prices and terms. Potential acquisitions may require us to issue additional shares of stock or obtain additional or new financing. The issuance of shares of our common or preferred stock in connection with potential acquisitions may dilute the value of shares held by our then existing equity holders. Further, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in integrating any such acquisitions that are completed. Integration of any such acquisitions may require substantial management, financial and other resources and may pose risks with respect to production, customer service and market share of our existing operations. In addition, we may acquire businesses that are subject to technological or competitive risks, and we may not be able to realize the benefits originally expected from such acquisitions.•Alternative technologies, such as fiber optic and wireless technologies, may make some of our products less competitive. Alternative technologies continue to have an adverse effect on elements of our business. For example, a continued increase in the rate of installations using fiber optic systems, an increase in the cost of copper-based systems, or advancing wireless technologies, as they relate to network and communications systems, may have an adverse effect on our business. While we do manufacture and sell fiber optic cables, any further acceleration in the erosion of our sales of copper cables due to increased market demand for fiber optic cables would most likely not be offset by an increase in sales of our fiber optic cables. In addition, our sales of copper premise cables currently face downward pressure from wireless and other similar technology and the increased acceptance and use of these technologies has increased this pressure and the potential negative impact on our future financial results, cash flows or financial position.•We are substantially dependent upon distributors and retailers for non-exclusive sales of our products and they could cease purchasing our products at any time. Distributors and retailers account for a material portion of our sales. These distributors and retailers are not contractually obligated to carry our product lines exclusively or for any period of time. Therefore, these distributors and retailers may purchase products that compete with our products or cease purchasing our products at any time. The loss of one or more large distributors or retailers could have a material adverse effect on our ability to bring our products to end users and on our results of operations. Moreover, a downturn in the business of one or more large distributors or retailers could adversely affect our sales and could create significant credit exposure. •Changes in our tax rates or exposure to new tax laws could impact our profitability. We are subject to income tax in the United States and in various other global jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings by jurisdiction and the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities. Our effective tax rate could also be adversely affected by changes in tax laws. For example, certain versions of recent U.S. tax reform proposals could, if enacted, significantly impact the taxation of U.S. based multinationals and could have a material impact on our tax expense and cash flows. In addition, we are subject to audits in various jurisdictions. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable and appropriate, there are significant uncertainties in these estimates and as a result of these estimates there could be material adjustments. As a result of ongoing or possible future tax audits, we may be required to pay additional taxes and/or penalties as a result of such tax audits, which could have a potential negative impact on our future financial results, cash flows and financial position.•Changes in industry standards and regulatory requirements may adversely affect our business. Our global business is subject to the requirements of federal, state, local and foreign regulatory authorities as well as industry standard-setting authorities. Changes in the standards and requirements imposed by such authorities could have an adverse effect on us. In the event that we are unable to meet any such new or modified standards when adopted, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, changes in the legislative environment could affect the growth and other aspects of important markets served by us. The wire and cable industry growth has been partially driven by energy related legislation, including alternative and renewable energy sources, investment incentives for utilities and government infrastructure spending. Although we believe legislative efforts overall had a positive impact on our business and financial results, we cannot be certain that this impact will continue. Further, we cannot predict the impact, either positive or negative, that changes in laws or industry standards may have on our future financial results, cash flows or financial position. •Failure to properly execute large customer projects may negatively impact our ability to obtain similar contracts in the future and may result in material financial penalties.In recent years, primarily in Europe, we have been awarded several large turn-key projects for specific customers. These projects involve numerous challenges associated with large long-term contracts and the contracts related to these projects generally include 11Table of Contentsmaterial financial penalties for non-performance on our part. We actively seek to increase our market share through successful execution of contracts for medium-voltage infield array projects and high-voltage export projects as well as underground terrestrial high-voltage projects. In addition, the terrestrial and submarine transmission cable markets in Europe, which are being driven by large investments in grid interconnections and alternative energy such as offshore wind power, represent an attractive long-term opportunity for us. The successful execution of large turn-key projects is important to our long-term success in this market.•Interruptions of supplies from key suppliers may affect our results of operations and financial performance. Interruptions of supplies from our key suppliers, including that from catastrophes such as hurricanes, earthquakes, floods or terrorist activities, could disrupt production or impact our ability to increase or maintain production and sales. All copper and aluminum rod used in our North American operations is externally sourced, and our largest supplier of copper rod accounted for approximately 95% of our North American purchases in 2013 while our largest supplier of aluminum rod accounted for approximately 50% of our North American purchases in 2013. Our European operations purchase copper and aluminum rod from many suppliers with each supplier generally providing a small percentage of the total copper and aluminum rod purchased while operations in ROW internally produce the majority of copper and aluminum rod for production needs and obtain cathode and ingots from various sources with each supplier generally providing a small percentage of the total amount of raw materials purchased. Any unanticipated problems with our copper or aluminum rod suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, we use a limited number of sources for most of the other raw materials that we do not produce. We do not have long-term or volume purchase agreements with most of our suppliers, and may have limited options in the short-term for alternative supply if these suppliers fail to continue the supply of material or components for any reason, including their business failure, inability to obtain raw materials or financial difficulties. Moreover, identifying and accessing alternative sources may increase our costs. •We source and sell products globally and are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.We manufacture and sell products and finance operations throughout the world and are exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. Also, our consolidated financial results are presented in U.S. dollars; therefore, a change in the value of currencies may adversely impact our financial statements after currency remeasurements and translation to U.S. dollars. In addition, devaluations of currencies, such as the devaluation of the Venezuelan Bolivar, could negatively affect the value of our earnings from, and the assets located, in those markets. On January 24, 2014, the Venezuelan government announced the establishment of a dual exchange rate system. A rate of 6.30 BsF per U.S. dollar will be applied to priority sectors, while other sectors of the economy will apply an exchange rate determined based on the results of the Venezuelan central bank’s system of weekly currency auctions. While the Company continues to evaluate the impact of these actions by the Venezuelan government, depending on the exchange rate the Company is required to apply to its financial statements, it may incur a charge to earnings in the first quarter of 2014. If the Company is required to apply an exchange rate of 11.3 BsF per U.S. dollar (the rate per the SICAD auction system at January 24, 2014) to its financial statements, it could result in a pre-tax charge of approximately $75 million to $85 million after-tax. •Compliance with foreign and U.S. laws and regulations applicable to our international operations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and other applicable anti-corruption laws, may increase the cost of doing business in international jurisdictions.Various laws and regulations associated with our current international operations are complex and increase our cost of doing business. Furthermore, these laws and regulations expose us to fines and penalties if we fail to comply with them. These laws and regulations include import and export requirements, U.S. laws such as the FCPA, and local laws prohibiting payments to governmental officials and other corrupt practices. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies, particularly as we expand our operations through organic growth and acquisitions. Any such violations could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, including material fines or prohibitions on our ability to offer our wire and cable products in one or more countries, and could also materially damage our reputation, brand, international expansion efforts, business and operating results. In addition, if we fail to address the challenges and risks associated with our international expansion and acquisition strategy, we may encounter difficulties implementing our strategy, which could impede our growth or harm our operating results.We are in the process of reviewing certain commission payments made by our subsidiary in Angola. The review is being conducted under the oversight of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors and with the assistance of external counsel. Due to the ongoing nature of the review, we have not yet been able to determine whether such commission payments were inconsistent with applicable U.S. or international laws and regulations. Based on the information gathered to date, we cannot predict the duration or the outcome of this review. If there is a finding that one or more payments were inconsistent with applicable laws or regulations, we may be subject to monetary or other sanctions, which could be material. 12Table of Contents•Failure to negotiate extensions of our labor agreements as they expire may result in a disruption of our operations. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 33% of our employees were represented by various labor unions of which 28% expire within the next twelve months. We are party to labor agreements with unions that represent employees at many of our manufacturing facilities. Labor agreements are generally negotiated on an annual or bi-annual basis and the risk exists that we may not be able to renew labor agreements on reasonably satisfactory terms or at all. We cannot predict what issues may be raised by the collective bargaining units representing our employees and, if raised, whether negotiations concerning such issues will be successfully concluded. A protracted work stoppage could result in a disruption of our operations which could, in turn, adversely affect our financial results, customer satisfaction, and our ability to deliver certain products.•Failure or disruptions of our information systems could interfere with our business and operations. We rely on our information systems and those of third parties for processing customer orders, shipment of products, billing our customers, tracking inventory, supporting accounting functions and financial statement preparation, paying our employees, and otherwise running our business. Any disruption, whether from hackers or other sources, in our information systems or those of the third parties upon whom we rely could have a significant impact on our business. In addition, we may need to enhance our information systems to provide additional capabilities and functionality. The implementation of new information systems and enhancements is frequently disruptive to the underlying business of an enterprise. Any disruptions affecting our ability to accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis could adversely affect our business in a number of respects. If we are unable to successfully implement potential future information systems enhancements, our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows could be negatively impacted. Increased IT security threats and more sophisticated computer crime, including advanced persistent threats, pose a potential risk to the security of our IT systems, networks and services, as well as the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. If the IT systems, networks or service providers we rely upon fail to function properly, or if we suffer a loss or disclosure of business or financial information, due to any number of causes, including catastrophic events, power outages and security breaches, and our business continuity plans do not effectively address these failures on a timely basis, we may suffer interruptions in our ability to manage operations, reputational, competitive and/or business harm, which may adversely impact our results of operations and/or financial condition. •The Company is exposed to counterparty risk in our hedging arrangements.The Company is exposed to counterparty risk in our hedging arrangements. The failure of one or more counterparties to our hedging arrangements to fulfill or renew their obligations to us could adversely affect our results of operations. At times, depending on the extent of any unrealized loss position(s) on a derivative contract(s), certain counterparties may require us to post collateral to secure our derivative contract positions. •As a result of market and industry conditions or in the event we close any of our manufacturing facilities, we may be required to recognize impairment charges for our long-lived assets, including goodwill. As of December 31, 2013, property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets account for approximately $1,459.5 million, or 32% of our total assets. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess our long-lived assets to determine if they are impaired. The testing for impairment is based on assumptions regarding our future business outlook as well as other factors. While we continue to review and analyze many factors that can impact our business, such as industry and economic trends, our analyses are subjective and are based on conditions existing at and trends leading up to the time the assumptions are made. Actual results could differ materially from these assumptions particularly in the event of disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in the use of assets or divestitures or expropriations of assets. Future impairment charges could significantly affect our results of operations in the period recognized.•Declining returns in the investment portfolio of our defined benefit pension plans and changes in actuarial assumptions could increase the volatility in our pension expense and require us to increase cash contributions to the plans.We sponsor defined benefit pension plans around the world. Pension expense for the defined benefit pension plans sponsored by us is determined based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including an expected long-term rate of return on assets and discount rate. The use of these assumptions makes our pension expense and our cash contributions subject to year-to-year volatility. As of December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, the defined benefit pension plans were underfunded by approximately $118.3 million, $163.7 million and $114.7 million, respectively, based on the actuarial methods and assumptions utilized for purposes of the applicable accounting rules and interpretations. We have experienced volatility in our pension expense and our cash contributions to our defined benefit pension plans. In 2013, pension expense was $20.6 million, an increase of approximately $0.5 million from 2012, and cash contributions were $11.2 million, an increase of approximately $2.7 million from 2012. We estimate our 2014 pension expense for our defined benefit plans will decrease to approximately $14.9 million. In the event that actual results differ 13Table of Contentsfrom the actuarial assumptions or the actuarial assumptions are changed, the funded status of our defined benefit pension plans may change and any such deficiency could result in additional charges to equity and an increase in our future pension expense and cash contributions. Refer to Note 12 - Employee Benefit Plans of this document for details.•Environmental liabilities could potentially adversely impact us and our affiliates.We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental protection laws and regulations governing our operations and the use, handling, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances currently or formerly used by us and our affiliates. A risk of environmental liability is inherent in our and our affiliates' current and former manufacturing activities in the event of a release or discharge of a hazardous substance generated by us or our affiliates. Under certain environmental laws, we could be held jointly and severally responsible for the remediation of any hazardous substance contamination at our current and former facilities and at third party waste disposal sites. We could also be held liable for any consequences arising out of human exposure to such substances or other environmental damage. We and our affiliates have been named as potentially responsible parties in proceedings that involve environmental remediation. There can be no assurance that the costs of complying with environmental, health and safety laws and requirements in our current operations or the liabilities arising from past releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, will not result in future expenditures by us that could materially and adversely affect our financial results, cash flows or financial condition. •We are subject to certain asbestos litigation and unexpected judgments or settlements that could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Our subsidiaries have been named as defendants in non-maritime asbestos cases which involve plaintiffs alleging exposure to asbestos-containing cable manufactured by our predecessors. Our subsidiaries have also been named, along with numerous other product manufacturers, as defendants in cases in which plaintiffs alleged that they suffered an asbestos related injury while working in the maritime industry. Refer to Item 3 - Legal Proceedings of this document for a summary of our outstanding asbestos related litigation. There can be no assurance that any judgments or settlements of the pending asbestos cases or any cases which may be filed in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our financial results, cash flows or financial position.•Pending antitrust and competition law investigations relating to the cable industry could negatively impact our Company.The U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) and the European Commission have been conducting antitrust and competition law investigations relating to the cable industry, which we believe relate primarily to the submarine and underground high-voltage power cables businesses. We were not engaged in the submarine power cable business prior to 2009. We only recently entered the submarine power cable business in March 2009 through our German affiliate, Norddeutsche Seekabelwerke GmbH & Co., which we acquired in 2007 and subsequently invested in so that we could enter the market. We have received requests for information from both the DOJ and the European Commission and provided documents and responses to inquiries in connection with their investigations. We may receive further requests for information from the DOJ.No wrongdoing by us or any of our subsidiaries has been alleged by the DOJ nor have we been named in any other cases or proceedings which have been brought by competition authorities in various countries against wire and cable companies in the submarine and underground power cables businesses. If any claims were to be made, defending them could involve us in lengthy proceedings. On July 5, 2011, the European Commission issued a Statement of Objections in relation to its ongoing competition investigation alleging that two General Cable affiliates in Europe engaged in violations of competition law in the underground power cables businesses for a limited period of time. The Company responded to the Statement of Objections on October 28, 2011 and continues to defend itself against the allegations. The defense of the Company in response to the European Commission's Statement of Objections could involve us in lengthy proceedings.If we or our subsidiaries were found to have violated antitrust or competition regulations at any time, we or our subsidiaries could be subject to fines and claims for damages, which could be material and materially impact our consolidated financial results.•If we fail to attract and retain our key employees, our business may be harmed. Our success has been largely dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our key employees and the loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees, without a properly executed transition plan, could have an adverse affect on us. The loss of any member of our senior management team or our key employees could damage critical customer relationships, result in the loss of vital knowledge, experience and expertise, could lead to increase in recruitment and training costs and make it more difficult to successfully operate our business and execute our business strategy. We may not be able to find qualified potential replacements for these individuals and the integration of potential replacements may be disruptive to our business. In addition, the loss of our key employees who have intimate knowledge of our manufacturing process could lead to increased competition to the extent that those employees are hired by a competitor and are able to recreate our manufacturing process. Our 14Table of Contentsfuture success will also depend in part upon our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, who are in great demand. •Our indebtedness and our ability to pay could adversely affect our business and financial condition.We have a significant amount of debt and may incur additional debt in the future. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks described herein would increase. Refer to Note 9 - Long-Term Debt of this document for details on the various debt agreements. The degree to which we are leveraged could have adverse consequences to us, limiting management's choices in responding to business, economic, regulatory and other competitive conditions. In addition, our ability to generate cash flow from operations sufficient to make scheduled payments on our debts as they become due will depend on our future performance, our ability to successfully execute our business strategy and our ability to obtain other financing, which may be influenced by economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our material indebtedness may affect our ability to pay principal and interest on outstanding indebtedness, increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limit future capital expenditures and research and development, limit our ability to fund working capital needs and general corporate requirements, decrease our flexibility to react to changes in our business and industry, and place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors with less debt. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, to refinance our indebtedness and fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facilities in an amount sufficient to enable us to make payments with respect to our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If this were the case, we might need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets, reduce or delay capital expenditures or seek additional equity financing. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. • Failure to comply with covenants and other provisions in our existing or future financing agreements could result in cross-defaults under some of our financing agreements, which could jeopardize our ability to satisfy our obligations.Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability or the ability of our subsidiaries to comply with the covenants, financial tests and ratios required by the instruments governing our and their financing arrangements, including, without limitation, the requirement that no final judgment or judgments of a court of competent jurisdiction have been rendered against us or our subsidiaries in excess of stated amounts. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing agreements could result in a default under those agreements as well as other agreements containing cross-default provisions. A default would permit lenders to cease to make further extensions of credit, accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements and foreclose upon any collateral securing that debt as well as restrict our ability to make certain investments and payments, pay dividends, purchase company stock, enter into transactions with affiliates, make acquisitions, merge and consolidate, or transfer or sell assets. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations. Our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to comply with these covenants is subject to various risks and uncertainties. In addition, events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with and maintain the financial tests and ratios required by this indebtedness. Even if we or our subsidiaries, as applicable, are able to comply with all applicable covenants, the restrictions on our ability to operate our business in our sole discretion could harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, mergers, acquisitions and other opportunities. Certain portions of our debt contain prepayment or acceleration rights at the election of the holders upon a covenant default, change in control or fundamental change, which, if exercised, could constitute an event of default under other portions of our debt. It is possible that we would be unable to fulfill all of these obligations simultaneously, which could adversely affect our financial position. •If we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under our secured indebtedness, the lenders under this indebtedness could foreclose on, and acquire control of, substantially all of our assets. Indebtedness under our senior secured credit facility is secured by: (a) for US borrowings under the facility, a first priority security interest in substantially all of our domestic assets and, (b) for Canadian and European borrowings under the facility, a first priority security interest in substantially all of our domestic and Canadian assets and certain assets of our Spanish, French and German subsidiaries party to the facility. In addition, the lenders under our senior secured credit facility have received a pledge of (i) 100% of the equity interests in substantially all of our domestic subsidiaries, and (ii) 65% of the voting equity interests in and 100% of the non-voting equity interests in certain of our foreign subsidiaries, including our Canadian subsidiaries and our Spanish, French and German subsidiaries party to the facility. As a result of these pledges and liens, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the facility, then the lenders under the facility would be entitled to foreclose on the assets pledged as collateral 15Table of Contentsto secure the facility and liquidate such assets. Under those circumstances, we may not have sufficient funds to pay our obligations, which could adversely affect our financial position.•Our ability to pay principal and interest on outstanding indebtedness depends upon our receipt of dividends or other intercompany transfers from our subsidiaries. We are a holding company and substantially all of our properties and assets are owned by, and all our operations are conducted through, our subsidiaries. As a result, we are dependent upon cash dividends and distributions or other transfers from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service obligations, including payment of the interest on and principal of our indebtedness when due, and other obligations. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and make other payments to us may be restricted by, among other things, applicable corporate, tax and other laws and regulations in the United States and abroad and agreements made by us and our subsidiaries, including under the terms of our existing and potentially future indebtedness. In addition, claims of creditors, including trade creditors, of our subsidiaries will generally have priority with respect to the assets and earnings of such subsidiaries over the claims of our creditors, except to the extent the claims of our creditors are guaranteed by these subsidiaries. Certain of our indebtedness may be guaranteed by only some of our subsidiaries. In the event of our dissolution, bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, the holders of such indebtedness will not receive any amounts from our non-guarantor subsidiaries with respect to such indebtedness until after the payment in full of the claims of the creditors of those subsidiaries. •A downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could limit our ability to conduct our business or offer and sell additional debt securities.Nationally recognized rating agencies currently rate our debt. Ratings are not recommendations to buy or sell our securities. We may, in the future, incur indebtedness with interest rates that may be affected by changes in or other actions associated with our credit ratings. Each of the rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically and previous ratings for our debt may not be maintained in the future. Rating agencies may also place us under review for potential downgrade in certain circumstances or if we seek to take certain actions. A downgrade of our debt ratings or other negative action, such as a review for a potential downgrade, could affect the market price of our existing Subordinated Convertible Notes, Senior Floating Rate Notes or our 5.75% Senior Notes. Furthermore, these events may negatively affect our ability to raise additional debt with terms and conditions similar to our current debt, and accordingly, likely increase our cost of capital. In addition, a downgrade of these ratings, or other negative action, could make it more difficult for us to raise capital to refinance any maturing debt obligations to support business growth and to maintain or improve the current financial strength of our business and operations.•The trading price of our common stock may be adversely affected by many factors, not all of which are within our control, as well as by future issuances of our common stock or additional series of preferred stock.The trading price of our common stock has been and may in the future be volatile. Our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including quarterly variations in our operating results or our competitors' operating results, announcements of new products or services by us or our competitors, adverse or unfavorable publicity about us or our services, or our competitors, timing and announcement of acquisitions by us or our competitors, technological innovations by us or our competitors, changes in our or our competitors' earnings estimates, financial strength or credit ratings of us or our competitors, changes in estimates or recommendations by security analysts for our stock or our competitors' stock, commencement of material litigation or unfavorable verdicts against us, and additions or departures of key personnel. In addition, our trading price may be adversely affected by future issuances of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that we have authority to issue 200 million shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2013, there were approximately 49.6 million shares of common stock outstanding (net of treasury shares), approximately 1.9 million shares of common stock are issuable upon the exercise of currently outstanding stock options and approximately 0.7 million shares of common stock are issuable upon the vesting of currently outstanding restricted stock units. In addition, a maximum of approximately 14.3 million shares of our common stock could be issuable upon conversion of our Subordinated Convertible Notes. All of the shares of our common stock that could be issued pursuant to the conversion of our Subordinated Convertible Notes by holders who are not our affiliates would be freely tradable by such holders.Our trading price also may be adversely affected by future issuances of series of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue series of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders. Our Board of Directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, conversion rights, dividend rights, preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or if we liquidate, dissolve or wind up our business and other terms. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. 16Table of Contents•If we fail to comply with the reporting obligations of the Exchange Act or if we fail to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, our business and the trading price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected.As a public company, we are required to comply with the periodic reporting obligations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), including the requirement that we file annual reports and quarterly reports with the SEC. Our failure to file required information in a timely manner could subject us to penalties under federal securities laws, expose us to additional lawsuits, create a default under our existing debt instruments and facilities, and restrict our ability to access financing. In addition, our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). However, our management has identified control deficiencies that constitute material weaknesses. These material weaknesses resulted in material errors that caused us to issue, in March 2013, restated consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 and for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, and unaudited restated financial statements for interim periods in 2011 and interim periods ended on March 30, 2012 and June 29, 2012, and, to issue, in January 2014, restated consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 and for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, 2010 and 2009, and unaudited restated financial statements for interim periods in 2011 and 2012 and the interim period ended on March 29, 2013. In addition, two civil complaints have been filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York by named plaintiffs on behalf of purported classes of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired the Company’s publicly traded securities, in one case which was filed on October 21, 2013 between May 3, 2011 and October 14, 2013, inclusive, and in the other case, which was filed on December 4, 2013, between May 2, 2011 and November 4, 2013, inclusive, against the Company, Gregory Kenny, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Brian Robinson, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. The complaints, which have been transferred to the United States District court for the Eastern District of Kentucky, allege claims under the anti-fraud and controlling person liability provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, alleging generally, among other assertions, that defendants made materially false and misleading statements regarding revenue recognition and other Company financial matters and failed to state material facts, including, among other things, that there was a lack of adequate internal controls, thereby artificially inflating the prices at which our securities traded. The complaints seek damages in undefined amounts, as well as attorney’s fees, experts’ fees and other costs. In addition, a derivative complaint was filed on January 7, 2014 in the Campbell County, Kentucky Circuit Court against all but one member of our Board of Directors, including Mr. Kenny, a former director and against Mr. Robinson and two former ROW officials, one of whom is a former executive officer of the Company. The complaint alleges that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties by knowingly failing to ensure that the Company implemented and maintained adequate internal controls over its accounting and financial reporting functions and by knowingly disseminating to stockholders materially false and misleading statements concerning the Company's financial results and internal controls. The complaint seeks damages in an unspecified amount, appropriate equitable relief to remedy the alleged breaches of fiduciary duty, attorney's fees, experts’ fees and other costs. We believe the purported class action complaints, and the derivative complaint insofar as it relates to our directors and Mr. Robinson, are without merit and intend to vigorously contest the actions. In response to the material weaknesses identified by the Company, the Company instituted a number of actions and designed and commenced implementation of changes in its internal control over financial reporting. Based on the actions, the Company’s management has concluded that the material weakness related to inventory control deficiencies in Brazil and control deficiencies related to ROW executive management have been remediated as of December 31, 2013. We cannot provide assurance that we have identified all, or that we will not in the future have additional, material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, we may be required to implement further remedial measures and to design enhanced processes and controls to address deficiencies, which could result in significant costs to us and require us to divert substantial resources, including management time, from other activities. If we identify material weaknesses and maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting in the future, we may not be able to prepare reliable financial reports and comply with our reporting obligations under the Exchange Act on a timely basis. Any such delays in the preparation of financial reports and the filing of our periodic reports may result in a loss of public confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, the commencement of additional litigation, or the commencement of regulatory action against the Company, which may include court actions or administrative proceedings, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, the market value of our common stock and our access to capital markets. ITEM 1B.UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone 17Table of Contents