RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to our Operations Our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer material adverse effects due to any of the following risks. We have described the specific risks that we consider material to our business but the risks described below are not the only ones we face. We do not discuss risks that would generally be equally applicable to companies in other industries, due to the general state of the economy or the markets, or other factors. Additional risks not known to us or that we now consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. Renewed weakness in the telecommunications market could once again have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition, and cause us to incur net losses in the future. Our business is extremely sensitive to market conditions in the telecommunications industry. In the recent past, our operating results were adversely affected due to unfavorable economic conditions and reduced capital spending by carriers and businesses, particularly in the United States and Europe. While there has been some improvement in capital spending trends since 2003, it is difficult to know whether these trends will continue. Capital spending for telecommunications equipment and related services depends upon the extent of existing unused capacity and the growth rate in voice and data traffic levels, including growth in Internet and electronic commerce generated traffic. If this capital spending does not increase from current levels, or does not at least maintain its current level, the market for our products may decline or fail to develop as expected. This would result in reduced sales and the carrying of excess inventory and may result in our incurring net losses once again in the future. 4 Table of Contents If we fail to keep pace with rapid changes in technology, our business could suffer. Technology in the telecommunications industry continues to advance at a rapid pace, particularly in the fields of mobile telecommunication networks and services, data processing and transmission. Failure to introduce or develop new products and technologies in a timely manner or failure to respond to changes in market demand may harm our business. Our inability to compete effectively with existing or new competitors could result in reduced revenues, reduced margins and loss of market share. The telecommunications equipment manufacturing industry continues to have excess capacity and there has not been any significant consolidation. Additionally, new competitors continue to emerge and grow. Asian-based competitors are now providing fierce competition not only in Asia but in other markets as well. Accordingly, the industry remains highly competitive and pricing pressures are intense across a wide range of products and services. Some of our competitors have a stronger position than us with respect to certain products or in particular markets. Also, the continued strength of the euro against the U.S. dollar and the major Asian currencies may give a competitive advantage to those of our competitors that incur a great portion of their costs outside the euro area. Gross margins may be adversely affected by increased price competition, excess capacity, higher material or labor costs, obsolescence charges, additional inventory write-downs, introductions of new products, increased levels of customer services, changes in distribution channels, and changes in product and geographic mix. In order to maintain or increase market share and to acquire new clients we may need to enter into contracts on terms that are less advantageous to us than what has been our general practice and as a result, our gross margin may be adversely impacted. Our business requires significant amounts of cash, and we may require additional sources of funds if our sources of liquidity are unavailable or insufficient to fund our operations. Our working capital requirements and cash flows historically have been, and are expected to continue to be, subject to quarterly and yearly fluctuations, depending on a number of factors. If we are unable to manage fluctuations in cash flow, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Factors which could lead us to suffer cash flow fluctuations include: • the level of sales; • the collection of receivables; • the timing and size of capital expenditures; and • customer financing obligations. In order to finance our business, we have entered into a syndicated credit facility allowing for the drawdown of significant levels of debt, but our ability to draw on this facility is conditioned upon our compliance with a financial covenant, and we can provide no assurance that we will be in compliance with such covenant at all times in the future. In the future, we may need to secure additional sources of funding if our existing facility and borrowings are not available or insufficient to finance our business. We can provide no assurance that such funding will be available on terms satisfactory to us. If we were to incur high levels of debt, this would require a larger portion of our operating cash flow to be used to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness. The increased use of cash to pay indebtedness could leave us with insufficient funds to finance our operating activities, such as research and development expenses and capital expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our short-term debt rating, though improved over the last two years, allows us a limited access to the commercial paper market, and the non-French commercial paper market is generally not available to us on 5 Table of Contents terms and conditions that we find acceptable. Our ability to access the capital markets and our financing costs are, in part, dependent on Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s or similar agencies’ ratings with respect to our debt and corporate credit and their outlook with respect to our business. Our current short-term and long-term credit ratings as well as any possible future lowering of our ratings may result in higher financing costs and reduced access to the capital markets. We can provide no assurance that our credit ratings will not be reduced in the future by Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s or similar rating agencies. Credit and commercial risks and exposures could increase if the financial condition of customers declines. A substantial portion of our sales are to customers in the telecommunications industry. These customers often require their suppliers to provide extended payment terms, direct loans or other forms of financial support as a condition to obtaining commercial contracts. As of December 31, 2005, net of provisions, we had provided customer financing of approximately €301 million, and we had outstanding commitments to provide further direct loans or financial guarantees of approximately € 97 million. We expect to continue to provide or commit to financing where appropriate for our business. Our ability to arrange or provide financing for our customers will depend on a number of factors, including our credit rating, our level of available credit, and our ability to sell off commitments on acceptable terms. More generally, as part of our business we routinely enter into long-term contracts involving significant amounts to be paid by our customers over time. Pursuant to these contracts, we may deliver products and services representing an important portion of the contract price before receiving any payment from the customer. As a result of the financing provided to customers and our commercial risk exposure under long-term contracts, our business could be adversely affected if the financial condition of our customers erodes. Over the past few years certain of our customers have filed with the courts seeking protection under the bankruptcy or reorganization laws of the applicable jurisdiction or have experienced financial difficulties. Upon the financial failure of a customer, we have experienced, and in the future may experience, losses on credit extended and loans made to such customer, losses relating to our commercial risk exposure, as well as the loss of the customer’s ongoing business. Should additional customers fail to meet their obligations to us, we may experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of reserves, which could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. Our sales are made to a relatively limited number of large customers. The loss of one of these customers or our inability to obtain new customers would result in lower sales. Historically, orders from a relatively limited number of customers have accounted for a substantial portion of our revenues and we expect that, for the foreseeable future, this will continue to be the case. For example, in 2005 our 10 largest customers accounted for 28% of our revenues. However, no single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues. In addition, even if we are successful in attracting new customers, new market entrants may not have access to sufficient financing to purchase our products and equipment. An increasing amount of our sales, particularly in mobile networks, is made in emerging markets. We continue to experience strong sales in emerging markets in Asia, Africa and Latin America. This is particularly the case with respect to mobile infrastructure products and related services. In these markets we are faced with several risks that are more significant than in other countries. These risks include economies that may be dependent on only a few products and therefore subject to significant fluctuations, weak legal systems which may affect our ability to enforce contractual rights, possible exchange controls, unstable governments, privatization actions or other government actions affecting the flow of goods and currency. 6 Table of Contents Our financial condition and results of operations may be harmed if we do not successfully reduce market risks through the use of derivative financial instruments. Since we conduct operations throughout the world, a substantial portion of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are denominated in various currencies other than the euro, principally the U.S. dollar, and, to a lesser extent, the British pound. Because our financial statements are denominated in euros, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, especially the U.S. dollar against the euro, could continue to have a material impact on our reported results. From 2003 through 2005, the relative strength of the euro against the U.S. dollar had a significant negative impact on our revenues. The weakness of the dollar against the euro has meant that competition is particularly intense from competitors with a large part of their costs outside the euro area. This has put pressure on our margins and might continue to do so. If the dollar continues to be weak against the euro in 2006, this may have a further negative impact on our revenues and our margins. We also experience other market risks, including changes in interest rates and in prices of marketable equity securities that we own. We use derivative financial instruments to reduce certain of these risks. If our strategies to reduce market risks are not successful, our financial condition and operating results may be harmed. Because of our significant international operations, we are exposed to a variety of risks, many of which are beyond our control. In addition to the currency risks described elsewhere in this section, our international operations are subject to a variety of risks arising out of the economy, the political outlook and the language and cultural barriers in countries where we have operations or do business, which is virtually every country in the world. We have significant operations and sales in many countries outside of Western Europe and North America, particularly in Asia. As such, our business activities are exposed to shifting government policies and legal systems that may not provide full protection of intellectual property rights or contractual commitments. Changes in government policies or an inability to protect our legal rights may have an adverse impact on our financial conditions. As a result of being active in many countries we are continually moving products from one country to another and we often provide services in one country from a base in another. Accordingly, we remain vulnerable to abrupt changes in customs and tax regimes that may have significant negative impacts on our financial condition and operating results. We are involved in several significant joint ventures and are exposed to problems inherent to companies under joint management. We are involved in several significant joint venture companies, some of which are fully consolidated in our accounts. The related joint venture agreements may require unanimous consent or the affirmative vote of a qualified majority of the shareholders to take certain actions, thereby possibly slowing down the decision-making process. Risks Relating to Ownership of our ADSs The trading price of our ADSs may be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate for converting euro into U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rate for converting euro into U.S. dollars may affect the value of our ADSs. If a holder of our ADSs fails to comply with the legal notification requirements upon reaching certain ownership thresholds under French law or our governing documents, the holder could be deprived of some or all of the holder’s voting rights and be subject to a fine. French law and our governing documents require any person who owns our outstanding shares or voting rights in excess of certain amounts specified in the law or our governing documents to file a report with us upon crossing this threshold percentage and, in certain circumstances, with the French stock exchange 7 Table of Contents regulator (Autorité des marchés financiers). If any shareholder fails to comply with the notification requirements: • the shares or voting rights in excess of the relevant notification threshold may be deprived of voting power on the demand of any shareholder; • all or part of the shareholder’s voting rights may be suspended for up to five years by the relevant French commercial court; and • the shareholder may be subject to a fine. Holders of our ADSs will have limited recourse if we or the depositary fail to meet obligations under the deposit agreement between us and the depositary. The deposit agreement expressly limits our obligations and liability and the obligations and liability of the depositary. Neither we nor the depositary will be liable despite the fact that an ADS holder may have incurred losses if the depositary: • is prevented or hindered in performing any obligation by circumstances beyond our control; • exercises or fails to exercise discretion under the deposit agreement; • performs its obligations without negligence or bad faith; • takes any action based upon advice from legal counsel, accountants, any person presenting our ordinary shares for deposit, any holder or any other qualified person; or • relies on any documents it believes in good faith to be genuine and properly executed. This means that there could be instances where you would not be able to recover losses that you may have suffered by reason of our actions or inactions or the actions or inactions of the depositary pursuant to the deposit agreement. In addition, the depositary has no obligation to participate in any action, suit or other proceeding in respect of our ADSs unless we provide the depositary with indemnification that it determines to be satisfactory. We are subject to different corporate disclosure standards that may limit the information available to holders of our ADSs. As a foreign private issuer, we are not required to comply with the notice and disclosure requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, relating to the solicitation of proxies for shareholder meetings. Although we are subject to the periodic reporting requirement of the Exchange Act, the periodic disclosure required of non-U.S. issuers under the Exchange Act is more limited than the periodic disclosure required of U.S. issuers. Therefore, there may be less publicly available information about us than is regularly published by or about other public companies in the United States. Judgments of U.S. courts may not be enforceable against us including those predicated on the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States in French courts. An investor in the United States may find it difficult to: • effect service of process within the United States against us and our non-U.S. resident directors and officers; • enforce U.S. court judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our non-U.S. resident directors and officers in both the United States and France; and • bring an original action in a French court to enforce liabilities based upon the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our non-U.S. resident directors and officers. 8 Table of Contents Preemptive rights may not be available for U.S. persons. Under French law, shareholders have preemptive rights to subscribe for cash issuances of new shares or other securities giving rights to acquire additional shares on a pro rata basis. U.S. holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares may not be able to exercise preemptive rights for their shares unless a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 is effective with respect to such rights or an exemption from the registration requirements imposed by the Securities Act is available. We may, from time to time, issue new shares or other securities giving rights to acquire additional shares at a time when no registration statement is in effect and no Securities Act exemption is available. If so, U.S. holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares will be unable to exercise their preemptive rights. 