Item 1A. Risk Factors The following is a summary description of some of the many risks we face in our business. You should carefully review these risks in evaluating our business, including the businesses of our subsidiaries. You should also consider the other information described in this report. Risks Related To Us and Our Business. We are substantially dependent on AVINZA and PROMACTA royalties for our revenues. King is obligated to pay us royalties based on its sales of AVINZA and GSK is obligated to pay us royalties on its sales of PROMACTA. These royalties represent and will for some time represent substantially all of our ongoing revenue. Although we may also receive royalties and milestones from our partners in various past and future collaborations, the amount of revenue from such royalties and milestones is unknown and highly uncertain. As a result, any setback that may occur with respect to AVINZA or PROMACTA could significantly impair our operating results and/or reduce the market price of our stock. Setbacks could include problems with shipping, distribution, manufacturing, product safety, marketing, government licenses and approvals, intellectual property rights, competition with existing or new products and physician or patient acceptance of the products, as well as higher than expected total rebates, returns or discounts. King and GSK’s sales efforts for AVINZA and PROMACTA, respectively, could be affected by a number of factors and decisions regarding their organizations, operations, and activities as well as events both related and unrelated to AVINZA or PROMACTA, including sales force reorganizations and lower than expected sales calls and prescription volumes. AVINZA and PROMACTA could also face stiffer competition from existing or future products. The negative impact on the sales of AVINZA or PROMACTA will negatively affect our royalties, revenues and earnings. Sales of AVINZA and PROMACTA may also be negatively impacted by higher than expected discounts (especially pharmacy benefit management/group purchasing organization rebates and Medicaid rebates, which can be substantial), returns and chargebacks and/or slower than expected market penetration. Other setbacks that AVINZA could face in the sustained-release opioid market include abuse issues and the inability to obtain sufficient quotas of morphine from the Drug Enforcement Agency to support production requirements. AVINZA or PROMACTA could also face regulatory action and product safety issues. For example, the FDA previously requested expanded warnings on the AVINZA label to alert doctors and patients to the dangers of using AVINZA with alcohol. Changes were subsequently made to the label. The FDA also requested clinical studies to investigate the risks associated with taking AVINZA with alcohol. Any additional warnings, studies and any further regulatory action could have significant adverse effects on AVINZA sales. On September 10, 2007, King reported that Actavis, a manufacturer of generic pharmaceutical products headquartered in Iceland, had filed with the FDA an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, with a Paragraph IV Certification pertaining to AVINZA, the rights to which were acquired by King from us in February 2007. According to the report, Actavis’s Paragraph IV Certification sets forth allegations that U.S. Patent No. 6,066,339, or the 339 patent, which pertains to AVINZA, and which is listed in the FDA’s Approved Drug Products With Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations, will not be infringed by Actavis’s manufacture, use, or sale of the product for which the ANDA was submitted. The expiration date for this patent is November 2017. King, King Pharmaceuticals Research and Development, Inc., Elan Corporation, plc and Elan Pharma International Ltd. jointly filed suit in federal district court in New Jersey on October 18, 2007 against Actavis, Inc. and Actavis Elizabeth LLC for patent infringement under the 339 patent. The lawsuit seeks a judgment that would, among other things, prevent Actavis from commercializing its proposed morphine product until after expiration of the 339 patent. 18 Table of Contents AVINZA was licensed from Elan Corporation, or Elan, which is its sole manufacturer. Any problems with Elan’s manufacturing operations or capacity could reduce sales of AVINZA, as could any licensing or other contract disputes with Elan, raw materials suppliers, or others. Further, pursuant to the agreement with King, beginning in 2009 we will no longer be entitled to receive AVINZA royalties on a quarterly basis, but will collect royalties on an annual basis, which may adversely impact our cash flows. Our product candidates face significant regulatory hurdles prior to marketing which could delay or prevent sales. Before we obtain the approvals necessary to sell any of our potential products, we must show through preclinical studies and human testing that each product is safe and effective. We and our partners have a number of products moving toward or currently awaiting regulatory action, including bazedoxifene, lasofoxifene, PS433540 and PS178990. Failure to show any product’s safety and effectiveness could delay or prevent regulatory approval of a product and could adversely affect our business. The clinical trials process is complex and uncertain. For example, the results of preclinical studies and initial clinical trials may not necessarily predict the results from later large-scale clinical trials. In addition, clinical trials may not demonstrate a product’s safety and effectiveness to the satisfaction of the regulatory authorities. Recently, a number of companies have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials or in seeking regulatory approvals, despite promising results in earlier trials. The FDA may also require additional clinical trials after regulatory approvals are received. Such additional trials may be expensive and time-consuming, and failure to successfully conduct those trials could jeopardize continued commercialization of a product. The rate at which we complete our clinical trials depends on many factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to obtain adequate supplies of the products to be tested and patient enrollment. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the trial. Delays in patient enrollment for our trials may result in increased costs and longer development times. In addition, our collaborative partners have rights to control product development and clinical programs for products developed under the collaborations. As a result, these collaborative partners may conduct these programs more slowly or in a different manner than expected. Moreover, even if clinical trials are completed, we or our collaborative partners still may not apply for FDA approval in a timely manner or the FDA still may not grant approval. We rely heavily on collaborative relationships, and any disputes or litigation with our collaborative partners or termination or breach of any of the related agreements could reduce the financial resources available to us, including milestone payments and future royalty revenues. Our strategy for developing and commercializing many of our potential products, including products aimed at larger markets, includes entering into collaborations with corporate partners and others. These collaborations have provided us with funding and research and development resources for potential products for the treatment of a variety of diseases. These agreements also give our collaborative partners significant discretion when deciding whether or not to pursue any development program. Our existing collaborations may not continue or be successful, and we may be unable to enter into future collaborative arrangements to develop and commercialize our product candidates. In addition, our collaborators may develop drugs, either alone or with others that compete with the types of drugs they are developing with us. This would result in increased competition for our programs. If products are approved for marketing under our collaborative programs, revenues we receive will depend on the manufacturing, marketing and sales efforts of our collaborative partners, who generally retain commercialization rights under the collaborative agreements. Generally, our current collaborative partners also have the right to terminate their collaborations under specified circumstances. If any of our collaborative partners breach or 19 Table of Contents terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative activities successfully, our product development under these agreements will be delayed or terminated. Disputes or litigation may also arise with our collaborators, including disputes or litigation over ownership rights to intellectual property, know-how or technologies developed with our collaborators. Such disputes or litigation could adversely affect our rights to one or more of our product candidates, including our PS433540, PS178990 and LGD-4665 and other small-molecule TPO mimetic compounds. Any such dispute or litigation could delay, interrupt or terminate the collaborative research, development and commercialization of certain potential products, create uncertainty as to ownership rights of intellectual property, or could result in litigation or arbitration. The occurrence of any of these problems could be time-consuming and expensive and could adversely affect our business. If we consume cash more quickly than expected, and if we are unable to raise additional capital, we may be forced to curtail operations. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. Clinical and preclinical development of drug candidates is a long, expensive and uncertain process. Also, we may acquire companies, businesses or products and the consummation of such acquisitions may consume additional cash. For example, as part of the consideration for our recent acquisition of Pharmacopeia we distributed approximately $9.3 million in cash to Pharmacopeia stockholders. Security holders of Pharmacopeia also received contingent value rights under which we could be required to make an aggregate cash payment of $15.0 million to such security holders under certain circumstances. We believe that our capital resources will be adequate to fund our operations at their current levels at least for the next twelve months. However, changes may occur that would cause us to consume available capital resources before that time. Examples of relevant potential changes that could impact our capital resources include: • the costs associated with our drug research and development activities, and additional costs we may incur if our development programs are delayed or are more expensive to implement than we currently anticipate; • changes in existing collaborative relationships, including the funding we receive in connection with those relationships; • the progress of our milestone and royalty producing activities; • acquisitions of other businesses or technologies; • the termination of our lease agreements; • the purchase of additional capital equipment; • cash payments or refunds we may be required to make pursuant to certain agreements with third parties; • competing technological and market developments; and • the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights, and the outcome of related litigation. Additional capital may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If additional capital is not available, we may be required to curtail operations significantly or to obtain funds by entering into arrangements with partners or other third parties that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, products or potential markets that we would not otherwise relinquish. 20 Table of Contents If, as the result of a merger, or otherwise, our collaborative partners were to change their strategy or the focus of their development and commercialization efforts with respect to our alliance products, the success of our alliance products could be adversely affected. Our collaborative partners may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts as the result of a merger. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have historically re-evaluated their priorities from time to time, including following mergers and consolidations which are common in these industries, and two of our collaborative partners have recently entered into merger agreements. In January 2009, Wyeth, a collaborative partner of ours, and Pfizer announced that they have entered into a definitive merger agreement under which Pfizer will acquire Wyeth in a cash and stock transaction. Furthermore, in March 2009, Schering-Plough Corporation, another of our collaborative partners, and Merck & Co., Inc., or Merck, announced that their boards of directors have unanimously approved a definitive merger agreement pursuant to which Merck and Schering-Plough will combine, under the name Merck, in a stock and cash transaction. As a result of the consummation of these mergers our collaborative partners may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, products and services that are similar to or competitive with our alliance products. Furthermore, the ability of our alliance products to reach their potential could be limited if our collaborative partners reduce or fail to increase spending related to such products as a result of these mergers. If our collaborative partners terminate their collaborations with us or do not commit sufficient resources to the development, manufacture, marketing or distribution of our alliance products, we could be required to devote additional resources to our alliance products, seek new collaborative partners or abandon such alliance products, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business. Third party intellectual property may prevent us or our partners from developing our potential products and we may owe a portion of any payments we receive from our collaborative partners to one or more third parties. Our success will depend on our ability and the ability of our collaborative partners to avoid infringing the proprietary rights of others, both in the United States and in foreign countries. In addition, disputes with licensors under our license agreements may arise which could result in additional financial liability or loss of important technology and potential products and related revenue, if any. Further, the manufacture, use or sale of our potential products or our collaborative partners’ products or potential products may infringe the patent rights of others. This could impact AVINZA, PROMACTA, bazedoxifene, lasofoxifene, LGD-4665, PS433540, PS178990 and any other products or potential products. Several drug companies and research and academic institutions have developed technologies, filed patent applications or received patents for technologies that may be related to our business. Others have filed patent applications and received patents that conflict with patents or patent applications we have licensed for our use, either by claiming the same methods or compounds or by claiming methods or compounds that could dominate those licensed to us. In addition, we may not be aware of all patents or patent applications that may impact our ability to make, use or sell any of our potential products. For example, US patent applications may be kept confidential while pending in the United States Patent and Trademark Office and patent applications filed in foreign countries are often first published six months or more after filing. On March 4, 2008, Rockefeller filed suit in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, against us alleging, among other things, a breach by us of our September 30, 1992 license agreement with Rockefeller, as well as other causes of action for unjust enrichment, quantum meruit, specific performance to perform an audit and declaratory relief. In February 2009 we reached a settlement with Rockefeller whereby the parties resolved all disputes that have arisen between them, including Rockefeller’s primary claim relating to the development of PROMACTA as well our counterclaims. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” Other possible disagreements or litigation with our collaborative partners could delay our ability and the ability of our collaborative partners to achieve milestones or our receipt of other payments. In addition, other 21 Table of Contents possible disagreements or litigation could delay, interrupt or terminate the research, development and commercialization of certain potential products being developed by either our collaborative partners or by us. The occurrence of any of the foregoing problems could be time-consuming and expensive and could adversely affect our business. Third parties have not directly threatened an action or claim against us, although we do periodically receive other communications or have other conversations with the owners of other patents or other intellectual property. If others obtain patents with conflicting claims, we may be required to obtain licenses to those patents or to develop or obtain alternative technology. We may not be able to obtain any such licenses on acceptable terms, or at all. Any failure to obtain such licenses could delay or prevent us from pursuing the development or commercialization of our potential products. In general, litigation claims can be expensive and time consuming to bring or defend against and could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot predict or determine the outcome of these matters or reasonably estimate the amount or range of amounts of any fines or penalties that might result from a settlement or an adverse outcome. However, a settlement or an adverse outcome could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. We may not be able to hire and/or retain key employees. If we are unable to hire and/or retain key employees, we may not have sufficient resources to successfully manage our assets or our business, and we may not be able to perform our obligations under various contracts and commitments. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain all of Pharmacopeia’s key management and scientific personnel. If we fail to retain such key employees, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the merger. Either of these could have substantial negative impacts on our business and our stock price. Our stock price has been volatile and could experience a sudden decline in value. Our common stock has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations and may continue to experience volatility in the future. As a result, you may not be able to sell your shares quickly or at the latest market price if trading in our stock is not active or the volume is low. Many factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including, but not limited to, the following factors: results of or delays in our preclinical studies and clinical trials; the success of our collaboration agreements; publicity regarding actual or potential medical results relating to products under development by us or others; announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or others; developments in patent or other proprietary rights by us or others; comments or opinions by securities analysts or major stockholders; future sales of our common stock by existing stockholders; regulatory developments or changes in regulatory guidance; litigation or threats of litigation; economic and other external factors or other disaster or crises; the departure of any of our officers, directors or key employees; period-to-period fluctuations in financial results; and limited daily trading volume. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA, (formerly the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.) and the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, have adopted certain new rules. If we were unable to continue to comply with the new rules, we could be delisted from trading on the NASDAQ Global Market, or Nasdaq, and thereafter trading in our common stock, if any, would be conducted through the over-the-counter market or on the Electronic Bulletin Board of FINRA. As a consequence of such delisting, an investor would likely find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain quotations as to the price of, our common stock. Delisting of our common stock could also result in lower prices per share of our common stock than would otherwise prevail. 22 Table of Contents We may not be successful in entering into additional out-license agreements on favorable terms, which may adversely affect our liquidity or require us to alter development plans on our products. We have entered into several out-licensing agreements for the development and commercialization of our products. Although we expend considerable resources on internal research and development for our proprietary programs, we may not be successful in entering into additional out-licensing agreements under favorable terms due to several factors including: • the difficulty in creating valuable product candidates that target large market opportunities; • research and spending priorities of potential licensing partners; • willingness of and the resources available to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to in-license product candidates for their clinical pipelines; or • differences of opinion with potential partners on the valuation of products we are seeking to out-license. The inability to enter into out-licensing agreements under favorable terms and to earn milestone payments, license fees and/or upfront fees may adversely affect our liquidity and may force us to curtail or delay development of some or all of our proprietary programs, which in turn may harm our business and the value of our stock. Our product development involves a number of uncertainties, and we may never generate sufficient collaborative payments and royalties from the development of products to become profitable. We were founded in 1987. We have incurred significant losses since our inception. As of December 31, 2008, our accumulated deficit was $679.6 million. Most of our products in development will require extensive additional development, including preclinical testing and human studies, as well as regulatory approvals, before they can be marketed. We cannot predict if or when any of the products we are developing or those being developed with our partners will be approved for marketing. There are many reasons why we or our collaborative partners may fail in our efforts to develop our potential products, including the possibility that: preclinical testing or human studies may show that our potential products are ineffective or cause harmful side effects; the products may fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals from the FDA or foreign authorities in a timely manner, or at all; the products, if approved, may not be produced in commercial quantities or at reasonable costs; the products, if approved, may not achieve commercial acceptance; regulatory or governmental authorities may apply restrictions to our products, which could adversely affect their commercial success; or the proprietary rights of other parties may prevent us or our partners from marketing the products. Any product development failures for these or other reasons, whether with our products or our partners’ products, may reduce our expected revenues, profits, and stock price. The past restatement of our consolidated financial statements increased the possibility of legal or administrative proceedings. Any future material weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting could harm stockholder and business confidence on our financial reporting, our ability to obtain financing and other aspects of our business. We determined that our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2003, and for the first three quarters of 2004, as described in more detail in our 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K, should be restated. As a result of the restatement, we have become subject to a number of additional risks and uncertainties. We expect to continue to incur unanticipated accounting and legal costs as noted below. In addition, the SEC has instituted a formal investigation into our restated consolidated financial statements 23 Table of Contents identified above. This investigation will likely continue to divert more of our management’s time and attention and cause us to continue to incur substantial costs. Such investigations can also lead to fines or injunctions or orders with respect to future activities, as well as further substantial costs and diversion of management time and attention. While no material weaknesses were identified as of December 31, 2008, we cannot assure you that material weaknesses will not be identified in future periods. The existence of one or more material weakness or significant deficiency could result in errors in our consolidated financial statements. Substantial costs and resources may be required to rectify any internal control deficiencies. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls in accordance with applicable standards, we may be unable to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, our business and financial condition could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, or the market price of our stock could decline significantly. In addition, our ability to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business, or obtain additional financing on favorable terms, could be materially and adversely affected, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, our financial condition and the market value of our securities. Moreover, our reputation with customers, lenders, investors, securities analysts and others may be adversely affected. Challenges to or failure to secure patents and other proprietary rights may significantly hurt our business. Our success will depend on our ability and the ability of our licensors to obtain and maintain patents and proprietary rights for our potential products both in the United States and in foreign countries. Patents may not be issued from any of these applications currently on file, or, if issued, may not provide sufficient protection. Our patent position, like that of many biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, is uncertain and involves complex legal and technical questions for which important legal principles are unresolved. We may not develop or obtain rights to products or processes that are patentable. Even if we do obtain patents, such patents may not adequately protect the technology we own or have licensed. In addition, others may challenge, seek to invalidate, infringe or circumvent any patents we own or license and rights we receive under those patents may not provide competitive advantages to us. Any conflicts resulting from the patent rights of others could significantly reduce the coverage of our patents and limit our ability to obtain meaningful patent protection. We have had and will continue to have discussions with our current and potential collaborative partners regarding the scope and validity of our patents and other proprietary rights. If a collaborative partner or other party successfully establishes that our patent rights are invalid, we may not be able to continue our existing collaborations beyond their expiration. Any determination that our patent rights are invalid also could encourage our collaborative partners to seek early termination of our agreements. Such invalidation could adversely affect our ability to enter into new collaborations. We may also need to initiate litigation, which could be time-consuming and expensive, to enforce our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of others’ rights. If litigation occurs, a court may find our patents or those of our licensors invalid or may find that we have infringed on a competitor’s rights. In addition, if any of our competitors have filed patent applications in the United States which claim technology we also have invented, the United States Patent and Trademark Office may require us to participate in expensive interference proceedings to determine who has the right to a patent for the technology. We also rely on unpatented trade secrets and know-how to protect and maintain our competitive position. We require our employees, consultants, collaborative partners and others to sign confidentiality agreements when they begin their relationship with us. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. In addition, our competitors may independently discover our trade secrets. 24 Table of Contents We will have continuing obligations to indemnify the buyers of our commercial product lines, and may be subject to other liabilities related to the sale of our commercial product lines. In connection with the sale of our AVINZA product line, we have agreed to indemnify King in certain cases for a period of 30 months after the closing of the sale of the AVINZA product line in February 2007, including any breach of certain representations, warranties or covenants contained in the asset purchase agreement. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify Eisai, the purchaser of our Oncology product line, for damages suffered by Eisai arising from any breach of our representations, warranties, covenants or obligations in the asset purchase agreement. Our obligation to indemnify Eisai extends beyond the closing of the sale of our Oncology product line in October 2006 up to, in some cases, 36 months and, in other cases, until the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations. In a few instances, our obligation to indemnify Eisai survives in perpetuity. Under certain circumstances, the asset purchase agreement for the AVINZA product line also allows King to set off indemnification claims against the royalty payments payable to us, including AVINZA royalty payments. Under the asset purchase agreements, our exposure for any indemnification claim brought by King or Eisai is limited to $40.0 million and $30.0 million, respectively. However, in certain matters, our indemnification obligation is not subject to the foregoing limits on liability. For example, we are obligated to indemnify King, without limitation, for all liabilities arising under certain agreements with Catalent Pharma Solutions related to the manufacture of AVINZA. Similarly, we are obligated to indemnify Eisai, without limitation, for all liabilities related to certain claims regarding promotional materials for the ONTAK and Targretin drug products. We cannot predict the liabilities that may arise as a result of these matters. Any claims related to our indemnification obligations to King or Eisai could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. As previously disclosed, in connection with the AVINZA sale transaction, King assumed our obligation to make payments to Organon based on net sales of AVINZA (the fair value of which was $58.5 million as of December 31, 2008). As Organon did not consent to the legal assignment of the co-promote termination obligation from us to King, we remain liable to Organon in the event King defaults on this obligation. Any requirement to pay a material amount to Organon, could adversely affect our business and the price of our securities. The sale of our commercial product lines also exposes us to product liability risks on products we sold prior to divesting these product lines. For example, such products may need to be recalled to address regulatory issues. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could result in payment of significant amounts of money and divert management’s attention from running our business. We believe that we carry reasonably adequate insurance for product liability claims. However, we may not be able to maintain our insurance on commercially reasonable terms, or our insurance may not provide adequate protection in the case of a product liability claim. To the extent that product liability insurance, if available, does not cover potential claims, we will be required to self-insure the risks associated with such claims. If our partners do not reach the market with our alliance products before our competitors offer products for the same or similar uses, or if our partners are not effective in marketing our alliance products, our revenues from product sales, if any, will be reduced. We face intense competition in our development activities. Our competitors might succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for competitive products more rapidly than our partners can for our products. In addition, competitors might develop technologies and products that are less expensive and perceived to be safer or more effective than those being developed by us or our partners, which could impair our product development and render our technology obsolete. 25 Table of Contents We use hazardous materials, which may expose us to significant liability. In connection with our research and development activities, we handle hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. To properly dispose of these hazardous materials in compliance with environmental regulations, we are required to contract with third parties. We believe that we carry reasonably adequate insurance for toxic tort claims. However, we cannot eliminate the risk or predict the exposure of accidental contamination or injury from the handling and disposing of hazardous materials, whether by us or our third-party contractors. Any accident in the handling and disposing of hazardous materials may expose us to significant liability. Our shareholder rights plan and charter documents may hinder or prevent change of control transactions. Our shareholder rights plan and provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in our ownership. In addition, our Board of Directors may issue shares of preferred stock without any further action by the stockholders. Such restrictions and issuances may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our ownership. If changes in our ownership are discouraged, delayed or prevented, it would be more difficult for our current Board of Directors to be removed and replaced, even if you or our other stockholders believe that such actions are in the best interests of us and our stockholders. We may lose some or all of the value of some of our short term investments. We engage one or more third parties to manage some of our cash consistent with an investment policy that allows a range of investments and maturities. The investments are intended to maintain safety of principal while providing liquidity adequate to meet projected cash requirements. Risks of principal loss are to be minimized through diversified short and medium term investments of high quality, but the investments are not in every case guaranteed or fully insured. As a result of changes in the credit market, one of our short term investments in commercial paper is in default. We intend to pursue collection efforts, but we might not recoup some or all of our investment in the commercial paper. In addition, from time to time we may suffer other losses on our short term investment portfolio. We may require additional money to run our business and may be required to raise this money on terms which are not favorable to us or which reduce our stock price. We may need to complete additional equity or debt financings to fund our operations. Our inability to obtain additional financing could adversely affect our business. Financings may not be available at all or on terms favorable to us. In addition, these financings, if completed, may not meet our capital needs and could result in substantial dilution to our stockholders. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or drug development programs. We may also be required to liquidate our business or file for bankruptcy protection. Alternatively, we may be forced to attempt to continue development by entering into arrangements with collaborative partners or others that require us to relinquish some or all of our rights to technologies or drug candidates that we would not otherwise relinquish. Our drug development programs will require substantial additional future funding which could hurt our operational and financial condition. Our drug development programs require substantial additional capital to successfully complete them, arising from costs to: conduct research, preclinical testing and human studies; establish pilot scale and commercial scale manufacturing processes and facilities; and establish and develop quality control, regulatory, marketing, sales and administrative capabilities to support these programs. 26 Table of Contents Our future operating and capital needs will depend on many factors, including: the pace of scientific progress in our research and development programs and the magnitude of these programs; the scope and results of preclinical testing and human studies; the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; the time and costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; competing technological and market developments; our ability to establish additional collaborations; changes in our existing collaborations; the cost of manufacturing scale-up; and the effectiveness of our commercialization activities. We expect our research and development expenditures over the next three years to continue to be significant. However, we base our outlook regarding the need for funds on many uncertain variables. Such uncertainties include regulatory approvals, the timing of events outside our direct control such as product launches by partners and the success of such product launches, negotiations with potential strategic partners, possible sale of assets or other transactions and other factors. Any of these uncertain events can significantly change our cash requirements. While we expect to fund our research and development activities from cash generated from AVINZA and PROMACTA royalties and royalties and milestones from our partners in various past and future collaborations to the extent possible, if we are unable to do so, we may need to complete additional equity or debt financings or seek other external means of financing. These financings could depress our stock price. If additional funds are required to support our operations and we are unable to obtain them on terms favorable to us, we may be required to cease or reduce further development or commercialization of our products, to sell some or all of our technology or assets or to merge with another entity. Significant returns of products we sold prior to selling our commercial businesses could harm our operating results. Under our agreements to sell our commercial businesses, we remain financially responsible for returns of our products sold before those businesses were transferred to their respective buyers. Consequently, if returns of those products are higher than expected, we could incur substantial expenses for processing and issuing refunds for those returns which, in turn, could negatively impact our financial results. The amount of returns could be affected by a number of factors including, but not limited to, ongoing product demand, product rotation at distributors and wholesalers, and product stability issues. Our results of operations and liquidity needs could be materially negatively affected by market fluctuations and economic downturn. Our results of operations could be materially negatively affected by economic conditions generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. Continuing concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining residential real estate market in the U.S. have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic recession and fears of a possible depression. Domestic and international equity markets continue to experience heightened volatility and turmoil. These events and the continuing market upheavals may have an adverse effect on us. In the event of a continuing market downturn, our results of operations could be adversely affected by those factors in many ways, including making it more difficult for us to raise funds if necessary, and our stock price may further decline. Our investment securities consist primarily of money market funds, corporate debt obligations and U.S. government agency securities. We do not have any auction rate securities. Recently, there has been concern in the credit markets regarding the value of a variety of mortgage-backed securities and the resultant effects on various securities markets. We cannot provide assurance that our investments are not subject to adverse changes in market value. If our investments experience adverse changes in market value, we may have less capital to fund our operations. 27 Table of Contents We may be unable to successfully integrate the business of Pharmacopeia and realize the anticipated benefits of the merger. In December 2008, we completed our merger with Pharmacopeia. The success of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated synergies, growth opportunities and cost savings from integrating Pharmacopeia’s business with our business. Our success in realizing these benefits and the timing of this realization depend upon the successful integration of the operations of Pharmacopeia. The integration of two independent companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, diversion of each company’s management’s attention, the disruption or interruption of, or the loss of momentum in, each company’s ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect either company’s ability to maintain relationships with licensors, collaborators, partners, suppliers and employees or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of the combined company and, as a result, adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We expect to incur significant costs and commit significant management time integrating Pharmacopeia’s business operations, technology, development programs, products and personnel with those of ours. If we do not successfully integrate the business of Pharmacopeia, the expenditure of these costs will reduce our cash position. Impairment charges pertaining to goodwill, identifiable intangible assets or other long-lived assets from the merger with Pharmacopeia could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and the market value of our common stock. The total purchase price pertaining to our merger with Pharmacopeia has been allocated to Pharmacopeia’s net tangible assets, identifiable intangible assets, in process research and development and goodwill. To the extent the value of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets or other long-lived assets become impaired, we will be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment. Any impairment charges could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and the market value of our common stock. We may undertake strategic acquisitions in the future and any difficulties from integrating such acquisitions could adversely affect our stock price, operating results and results of operations. We may acquire companies, businesses and products that complement or augment our existing business. We may not be able to integrate any acquired business successfully or operate any acquired business profitably. Integrating any newly acquired business could be expensive and time-consuming. Integration efforts often take a significant amount of time, place a significant strain on managerial, operational and financial resources and could prove to be more difficult or expensive than we predict. The diversion of our management’s attention and any delay or difficulties encountered in connection with any future acquisitions we may consummate could result in the disruption of our on-going business or inconsistencies in standards and controls that could negatively affect our ability to maintain third-party relationships. Moreover, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing, or issue additional shares, to acquire any businesses or products, which may result in dilution for stockholders or the incurrence of indebtedness. As part of our efforts to acquire companies, business or product candidates or to enter into other significant transactions, we conduct business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating material risks involved in the transaction. Despite our efforts, we ultimately may be unsuccessful in ascertaining or evaluating all such risks and, as a result, might not realize the intended advantages of the transaction. If we fail to realize the expected benefits from acquisitions we may consummate in the future, whether as a result of unidentified risks, integration difficulties, regulatory setbacks and other events, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we acquire product candidates, we will also need to make certain assumptions about, among other things, development costs, the likelihood of receiving regulatory approval and the market for such product candidates. Our assumptions may prove to be incorrect, which could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these transactions. 28 Table of Contents In addition, we will likely experience significant charges to earnings in connection with our efforts, if any, to consummate acquisitions. For transactions that are ultimately not consummated, these charges may include fees and expenses for investment bankers, attorneys, accountants and other advisors in connection with our efforts. Even if our efforts are successful, we may incur, as part of a transaction, substantial charges for closure costs associated with elimination of duplicate operations and facilities and acquired in-process research and development charges. In either case, the incurrence of these charges could adversely affect our results of operations for particular quarterly or annual periods. The drug research and development industry is highly competitive and subject to technological change, and we may not have the resources necessary to compete successfully. Many of our competitors have access to greater financial, technical, research, marketing, sales, distribution, service and other resources than we do. Moreover, the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are characterized by continuous technological innovation. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter the market and our competitors make advanced technologies available. Technological advances or entirely different approaches that we or one or more of our competitors develop may render our products, services and expertise obsolete or uneconomical. Additionally, the existing approaches of our competitors or new approaches or technologies that our competitors develop may be more effective than those we develop. We may not be able to compete successfully with existing or future competitors. We have excess space available for sublease at our facilities and we may not be able to find qualified sublease tenants. We have entered into long-term, non-cancellable real estate arrangements for space which, as a result of reductions in our workforce and our acquisition of Pharmacopeia, are considered to be in excess of our current requirements. We currently have a tenant who is subleasing one of our facilities and we are actively looking for additional sublease tenants to sublease up to approximately 80,000 square feet of vacant space or space that could be made available through changes in the current layout of our operations. We will continue to be responsible for all carrying costs of these facilities until such time as we can sublease these facilities or terminate the applicable leases based on the contractual terms of the lease agreements. However, the commercial real estate market conditions in the United States have resulted in a surplus of business facilities making it difficult to sublease properties. If we are unable to find additional sublease tenants we may not meet our expected estimated levels of sublease income or we may be required to terminate these leases at a substantial cost, and, accordingly, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 