1A. Risk Factors The following is a summary description of some of the many risks we face in our business. You should carefully review these risks in evaluating our business, including the businesses of our subsidiaries. You should also consider the other information described in this report. Risks Related To Us and Our Business. We rely heavily on collaborative relationships, and any disputes or litigation with our collaborative partners or termination or breach of any of the related agreements could reduce the financial resources available to us, including milestone payments and future royalty revenues. Our strategy for developing and commercializing many of our potential products, including products aimed at larger markets, includes entering into collaborations with corporate partners and others. These collaborations have provided us with funding and research and development resources for potential products for the treatment of a variety of diseases. These agreements also give our collaborative partners significant discretion when deciding whether or not to pursue any development program. Our existing collaborations may not continue or be successful, and we may be unable to enter into future collaborative arrangements to develop and commercialize our product candidates. In addition, our collaborators may develop drugs, either alone or with others that compete with the types of drugs they are developing with us. This would result in increased competition for our programs. If products are approved for marketing under our collaborative programs, revenues we receive will depend on the manufacturing, marketing and sales efforts of our collaborative partners, who generally retain commercialization rights under the collaborative agreements. Generally, our current collaborative partners also have the right to terminate their collaborations under specified circumstances. If any of our collaborative partners breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative activities successfully, our product development under these agreements will be delayed or terminated. Disputes or litigation may also arise with our collaborators, including disputes or litigation over ownership rights to intellectual property, know-how or technologies developed with our collaborators. Such disputes or litigation could adversely affect our rights to one or more of our product candidates, including our LGD-4665 and other small-molecule TPO mimetic compounds. Any such dispute or litigation could delay, interrupt or terminate the collaborative research, development and commercialization of certain potential products, create uncertainty as to ownership rights of intellectual property, or could result in litigation or arbitration. The occurrence of any of these problems could be time-consuming and expensive and could adversely affect our business. Our product candidates face significant regulatory hurdles prior to marketing which could delay or prevent sales. Before we obtain the approvals necessary to sell any of our potential products, we must show through preclinical studies and human testing that each product is safe and effective. We and our partners have a number of products moving toward or currently awaiting regulatory action, including eltrombopag, bazedoxifene and lasofoxifene. Failure to show any product’s safety and effectiveness could delay or prevent regulatory approval of a product and could adversely affect our business. The clinical trials process is complex and uncertain. For example, the results of preclinical studies and initial clinical trials may not necessarily predict the results from later large-scale clinical trials. In addition, clinical trials may not demonstrate a product’s safety and effectiveness to the satisfaction of the regulatory authorities. Recently, a number of companies have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials or in seeking regulatory approvals, despite promising results in earlier trials. The FDA may also require additional clinical trials after regulatory approvals are received. Such additional trials may be expensive and time-consuming, and failure to successfully conduct those trials could jeopardize continued commercialization of a product. The rate at which we complete our clinical trials depends on many factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to obtain adequate supplies of the products to be tested and patient enrollment. Patient enrollment is a 12 Table of Contents function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the trial. Delays in patient enrollment for our trials may result in increased costs and longer development times. In addition, our collaborative partners have rights to control product development and clinical programs for products developed under the collaborations. As a result, these collaborative partners may conduct these programs more slowly or in a different manner than expected. Moreover, even if clinical trials are completed, we or our collaborative partners still may not apply for FDA approval in a timely manner or the FDA still may not grant approval. Third party intellectual property may prevent us or our partners from developing our potential products and we may owe a portion of any payments we receive from our collaborative partners to one or more third parties. Our success will depend on our ability and the ability of our collaborative partners to avoid infringing the proprietary rights of others, both in the United States and in foreign countries. In addition, disputes with licensors under our license agreements may arise which could result in additional financial liability or loss of important technology and potential products and related revenue, if any. Further, the manufacture, use or sale of our potential products or our collaborative partners’ products or potential products may infringe the patent rights of others. This could impact AVINZA, eltrombopag, bazedoxifene, lasofoxifene, LGD-4665 and any other products or potential products. See Note 12 of the consolidated financial statements, “Collaboration Agreements and Royalty Matters.” Several drug companies and research and academic institutions have developed technologies, filed patent applications or received patents for technologies that may be related to our business. Others have filed patent applications and received patents that conflict with patents or patent applications we have licensed for our use, either by claiming the same methods or compounds or by claiming methods or compounds that could dominate those licensed to us. In addition, we may not be aware of all patents or patent applications that may impact our ability to make, use or sell any of our potential products. For example, US patent applications may be kept confidential while pending in the Patent and Trademark Office and patent applications filed in foreign countries are often first published six months or more after filing. In March 2007 we received a letter from counsel to Salk alleging that we owe Salk royalties on prior sales of Targretin as well as a percentage of the amounts received from Eisai. Salk alleges that it is owed at least 25% of the consideration paid by Eisai for the portion of our Oncology Product Line and associated assets attributable to Targretin. In an April 11, 2007 request for mediation, Salk repeated these claims and asserted additional claims that increase the amount of royalty buy-out payments allegedly owed to Salk. A mediation hearing in June 2007 attended by representatives from Ligand and Salk left the matter unresolved. In July 2007, Salk filed a demand for arbitration with the American Arbitration Association seeking at least $22 million for alleged breach of contract based on Salk’s theory that it is entitled to a portion of the money paid by Eisai to Ligand for Targretin related assets. We do not believe that Salk has a valid basis for its claims and intend to vigorously oppose any claim that Salk may bring for payment related to these matters. On October 4, 2007 we received a letter from Rockefeller University, or Rockefeller, claiming that it is owed 25% of the milestone payments received by us from our partner GlaxoSmithKline for eltrombopag and the backup compound SB-559448, as well as 25% of any future milestone and royalty payments that we may receive from GlaxoSmithKline based on the development and sale of these compounds. To date we have received $8 million of milestone payments from GlaxoSmithKline for these compounds. In the letter, Rockefeller also stated its rejection of a notice we sent to Rockefeller on August 9, 2007 to terminate the September 30, 1992 license agreement between us and Rockefeller. On March 4, 2008, we filed a declaratory judgment action against Rockefeller in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California seeking, among other things, a judicial determination that (i) eltrombopag and the backup compound SB-559448 (including the use of such compounds) do not embody any invention(s) described or claimed in certain licensed patent rights under our September 30, 1992 license agreement with Rockefeller, (ii) Rockefeller technical information was not essential to the discovery or development of eltrombopag and the backup compound SB-559448, (iii) we are not liable for 13 Table of Contents any additional payments under our September 30, 1992 license agreement with Rockefeller beyond any payments that we’ve already made, and (iv) our September 30, 1992 license agreement with Rockefeller was terminated in November 2007, and that subsequent to the termination of such agreement, we are not liable for future payments under such agreement. However, intellectual property disputes are subject to inherent uncertainties and there can be no assurance this action for declaratory judgment will be resolved favorably to us or that the lawsuit will not have a material adverse effect on us. Also on March 4, 2008, Rockefeller filed suit against us in the Supreme Court of the State of New York in New York County alleging, among other things, a breach by us of our September 30, 1992 license agreement with Rockefeller, as well as other causes of action for unjust enrichment, quantum meruit, specific performance to perform an audit and declaratory relief. The complaint seeks damages of at least $1.91 million, plus alleges that Rockefeller is entitled to 25% of payments to be received by us in the future related to Promacta and SB-559448 or from any third party in connection with certain products (which products, according to the complaint, include LGD-4665), and 5% of future net sales of certain of our products (which products, according to the complaint, include LGD-4665). The complaint requests a trial by jury, and also seeks to impose a constructive trust upon payments received by us to which Rockefeller claims it is owed a portion. Further, these and other possible disagreements or litigation with our collaborative partners could delay our ability and the ability of our collaborative partners to achieve milestones or our receipt of other payments. In addition, these and any other possible disagreements or litigation could delay, interrupt or terminate the research, development and commercialization of certain potential products being developed by either our collaborative partners or by us. Moreover, if we are unable to resolve the current dispute with Rockefeller or any other possible disagreements with licensors or collaborative partners, protracted litigation or arbitration could result. The occurrence of any of the foregoing problems could be time-consuming and expensive and could adversely affect our business. As noted above, Salk has brought a claim against us in arbitration and Rockefeller has filed a lawsuit against us claiming, inter alia, that it is owed and will be owed certain payments under our agreement with them. Other third parties have not directly threatened an action or claim against us, although we do periodically receive other communications or have other conversations with the owners of other patents or other intellectual property. If others obtain patents with conflicting claims, we may be required to obtain licenses to those patents or to develop or obtain alternative technology. We may not be able to obtain any such licenses on acceptable terms, or at all. Any failure to obtain such licenses could delay or prevent us from pursuing the development or commercialization of our potential products. We are substantially dependent on AVINZA royalties for our revenues. King is obligated to pay us royalties in the future based on sales of AVINZA by King. Specifically, King is required to pay us a 15% royalty on AVINZA net sales during the first 20 months after the closing of the sale of the AVINZA product line in February 2007. Beginning in October 2008, royalty payments will be based upon calendar year net sales of AVINZA. If calendar year net sales are less than $200.0 million, the royalty payment will be 5% of all net sales. If calendar year net sales are greater than $200.0 million, the royalty payment will be 10% of all net sales less than $250.0 million, plus 15% of net sales greater than $250.0 million. In addition, beginning in 2009, we will no longer be entitled to receive royalties on a quarterly basis, but will collect royalties on an annual basis, which may adversely impact our cash flows. These royalties represent and will for some time represent substantially all of our ongoing revenue. Although we may also receive royalties and milestones from our partners in various past and future collaborations, the amount of revenue from these royalties and milestones is unknown and highly uncertain. As a result, any setback that may occur with respect to AVINZA could significantly impair our operating results and/or reduce the market price for our stock. Setbacks could include problems with shipping, distribution, manufacturing, product safety, marketing, government licenses and approvals, intellectual property rights, competition with existing or new products and physician or patient acceptance of the products, as well as higher than expected total rebates, returns or discounts. On September 10, 2007, King reported that Actavis, a manufacturer of generic pharmaceutical products headquartered in Iceland, had filed with the FDA an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, with a 14 Table of Contents Paragraph IV Certification pertaining to AVINZA, the rights to which were acquired by King from us in February 2007. According to the report, Actavis’s Paragraph IV Certification sets forth allegations that U.S. Patent No. 6,066,339 (“the ‘339 patent,” which pertains to AVINZA) which is listed in the FDA’s Approved Drug Products With Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations, will not be infringed by Actavis’s manufacture, use, or sale of the product for which the ANDA was submitted. The expiration date for this patent is November 2017. King, King Pharmaceuticals Research and Development, Inc., Elan Corporation, plc and Elan Pharma International Ltd. jointly filed suit in federal district court in New Jersey on October 18, 2007 against Actavis, Inc. and Actavis Elizabeth LLC for patent infringement under the ‘339 patent. The lawsuit seeks a judgment that would, among other things, prevent Actavis from commercializing its proposed morphine product until after expiration of the ‘339 patent. AVINZA was licensed from Elan Corporation which is its sole manufacturer. Any problems with Elan’s manufacturing operations or capacity could reduce sales of AVINZA, as could any licensing or other contract disputes with Elan, raw materials suppliers, or others. Similarly, King’s AVINZA sales efforts could be affected by a number of factors and decisions regarding its organization, operations, and activities as well as events both related and unrelated to AVINZA, including sales force reorganizations and lower than expected sales call and prescription volumes. AVINZA could also face stiffer competition from existing or future pain products. The negative impact on the AVINZA’s sales growth in turn may negatively affect our royalties, revenues and earnings. AVINZA sales may also be negatively impacted by higher than expected discounts (especially PBM/GPO rebates and Medicaid rebates, which can be substantial), returns and chargebacks and/or slower than expected market penetration. Other setbacks that AVINZA could face in the sustained-release opioid market include product safety and abuse issues, regulatory action, and the inability to obtain sufficient quotas of morphine from the Drug Enforcement Agency to support production requirements. With respect to regulatory action and product safety issues, the FDA previously requested expanded warnings on the AVINZA label to alert doctors and patients to the dangers of using AVINZA with alcohol. Changes were made to the label. The FDA also requested clinical studies to investigate the risks associated with taking AVINZA with alcohol. Any additional warnings, studies and any further regulatory action could have significant adverse effects on AVINZA sales. We may not be able to hire and/or retain key employees. If we are unable to hire and/or retain key employees, we may not have sufficient resources to successfully manage our assets or our business, and we may not be able to perform our obligations under various contracts and commitments. Either of these could have substantial negative impacts on our business and our stock price. Our stock price has been volatile and could experience a sudden decline in value. Our common stock has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations and may continue to experience volatility in the future. As a result, you may not be able to sell your shares quickly or at the latest market price if trading in our stock is not active or the volume is low. Many factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including, but not limited to, the following factors: results of or delays in our preclinical studies and clinical trials; the success of our collaboration agreements; publicity regarding actual or potential medical results relating to products under development by us or others; announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or others; developments in patent or other proprietary rights by us or others; comments or opinions by securities analysts or major stockholders; future sales of our common stock by existing stockholders; regulatory developments or changes in regulatory guidance; litigation or threats of litigation; economic and other external factors or other disaster or crises; the departure of any of our officers, directors or key employees; period-to-period fluctuations in financial results; and limited daily trading volume. The National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., or NASD, and the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, have adopted certain new rules. If we were unable to continue to comply with the new 15 Table of Contents rules, we could be delisted from trading on the NASDAQ Global Market, or Nasdaq, and thereafter trading in our common stock, if any, would be conducted through the over-the-counter market or on the Electronic Bulletin Board of the NASD. As a consequence of such delisting, an investor would likely find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain quotations as to the price of, our common stock. Delisting of our common stock could also result in lower prices per share of our common stock than would otherwise prevail. In March 2007, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program under Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, of up to $100 million of shares of our common stock in the open market and negotiated purchases over a period of 12 months. During 2007, we repurchased 6.2 million shares of our common stock in open market transactions at varying prices for an aggregate purchase price of $39.6 million. The existence of such a program may contribute to the volatility of the price of our common stock and impact the liquidity of our common stock. Our product development involves a number of uncertainties, and we may never generate sufficient collaborative payments and royalties from the development of products to become profitable. We were founded in 1987. We have incurred significant losses since our inception. As of December 31, 2007, our accumulated deficit was $581.5 million. Most of our products in development will require extensive additional development, including preclinical testing and human studies, as well as regulatory approvals, before they can be marketed. We cannot predict if or when any of the products we are developing or those being developed with our partners will be approved for marketing. There are many reasons why we or our collaborative partners may fail in our efforts to develop our potential products, including the possibility that: preclinical testing or human studies may show that our potential products are ineffective or cause harmful side effects; the products may fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals from the FDA or foreign authorities in a timely manner, or at all; the products, if approved, may not be produced in commercial quantities or at reasonable costs; the products, if approved, may not achieve commercial acceptance; regulatory or governmental authorities may apply restrictions to our products, which could adversely affect their commercial success; or the proprietary rights of other parties may prevent us or our partners from marketing the products. Any product development failures for these or other reasons, whether with our products or our partners’ products, may reduce our expected revenues, profits, and stock price. The past restatement of our consolidated financial statements increased the possibility of legal or administrative proceedings. Any future material weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting could harm stockholder and business confidence on our financial reporting, our ability to obtain financing and other aspects of our business. We determined that our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2003, and for the first three quarters of 2004, as described in more detail in our 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K, should be restated. As a result of these events, we have become subject to a number of additional risks and uncertainties. We expect to continue to incur unanticipated accounting and legal costs as noted below. In addition, the SEC has instituted a formal investigation into our restated consolidated financial statements identified above. This investigation will likely divert more of our management’s time and attention and cause us to incur substantial costs. Such investigations can also lead to fines or injunctions or orders with respect to future activities, as well as further substantial costs and diversion of management time and attention. While no material weaknesses were identified as of December 31, 2007, we cannot assure you that material weaknesses will not be identified in future periods. The existence of one or more material weakness or significant deficiency could result in errors in our consolidated financial statements. Substantial costs and resources may be required to rectify any internal control deficiencies. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls in accordance with applicable standards, we may be unable to conclude on an ongoing basis that 16 Table of Contents we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, our business and financial condition could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, or the market price of our stock could decline significantly. In addition, our ability to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business, or obtain additional financing on favorable terms, could be materially and adversely affected, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, our financial condition and the market value of our securities. Moreover, our reputation with customers, lenders, investors, securities analysts and others may be adversely affected. Challenges to or failure to secure patents and other proprietary rights may significantly hurt our business. Our success will depend on our ability and the ability of our licensors to obtain and maintain patents and proprietary rights for our potential products both in the United States and in foreign countries. Patents may not be issued from any of these applications currently on file, or, if issued, may not provide sufficient protection. Our patent position, like that of many biotech and pharmaceutical companies, is uncertain and involves complex legal and technical questions for which important legal principles are unresolved. We may not develop or obtain rights to products or processes that are patentable. Even if we do obtain patents, such patents may not adequately protect the technology we own or have licensed. In addition, others may challenge, seek to invalidate, infringe or circumvent any patents we own or license and rights we receive under those patents may not provide competitive advantages to us. Any conflicts resulting from the patent rights of others could significantly reduce the coverage of our patents and limit our ability to obtain meaningful patent protection. We have had and will continue to have discussions with our current and potential collaborative partners regarding the scope and validity of our patents and other proprietary rights. If a collaborative partner or other party successfully establishes that our patent rights are invalid, we may not be able to continue our existing collaborations beyond their expiration. Any determination that our patent rights are invalid also could encourage our collaborative partners to seek early termination of our agreements. Such an invalidation could adversely affect our ability to enter into new collaborations. We may also need to initiate litigation, which could be time-consuming and expensive, to enforce our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of others’ rights. If litigation occurs, a court may find our patents or those of our licensors invalid or may find that we have infringed on a competitor’s rights. In addition, if any of our competitors have filed patent applications in the United States which claim technology we also have invented, the Patent and Trademark Office may require us to participate in expensive interference proceedings to determine who has the right to a patent for the technology. We also rely on unpatented trade secrets and know-how to protect and maintain our competitive position. We require our employees, consultants, collaborative partners and others to sign confidentiality agreements when they begin their relationship with us. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. In addition, our competitors may independently discover our trade secrets. Our legacy commercial product lines expose us to product liability risks and we may not have sufficient insurance to cover any claims. We completed the sale of our commercial product lines in February 2007. Nevertheless, products we sold prior to divesting these product lines expose us to potential product liability risks. For example, such products may need to be recalled to address regulatory issues. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could result in payment of significant amounts of money and divert management’s attention from running our business. In addition, some of the compounds we are investigating may be harmful to humans. We believe that we carry reasonably adequate insurance for product liability claims. However, we may not be able to maintain our insurance on commercially reasonable terms, or our insurance may not provide adequate protection in the case of 17 Table of Contents a product liability claim. To the extent that product liability insurance, if available, does not cover potential claims, we will be required to self-insure the risks associated with such claims. We will have continuing obligations to indemnify the buyers of our commercial product lines, and may be subject to other liabilities related to the sale of our commercial product lines. In connection with the sale of our AVINZA Product Line, we have agreed to indemnify King for a period of 16 months after the closing of the sale of the AVINZA Product Line in February 2007 for a number of specified matters, including any breach of our representations, warranties or covenants contained in the asset purchase agreement. In certain defined cases, our obligation to indemnify King extends for a period of 30 months following the closing of the asset sale. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify Eisai, the purchaser of our Oncology Product Line, for damages suffered by Eisai arising from any breach of our representations, warranties, covenants or obligations in the asset purchase agreement. Our obligation to indemnify Eisai extends beyond the closing of the sale of our Oncology Product Line in October 2006 up to, in some cases, 18 months or 36 months and, in other cases, until the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations. In a few instances, our obligation to indemnify Eisai survives in perpetuity. Under our agreement with King, $15.0 million of the total upfront cash payment was deposited into an escrow account to secure our indemnification obligations to King. As of December 31, 2007, $7.5 million remained in the King escrow account and $7.5 million has been released to us. Similarly, our agreement with Eisai required that $20.0 million of the total upfront cash payment be deposited into an escrow account to secure our indemnification obligations to Eisai. As of December 31, 2007, all amounts in the Eisai escrow account had been released to us. Under certain circumstances, our liability to King or Eisai under the indemnification obligations of the applicable asset purchase agreement may be in excess of the amounts in the applicable escrow accounts. The asset purchase agreement for the AVINZA Product Line also allows King, under certain circumstances, to set off indemnification claims against the royalty payments payable to us, including AVINZA royalty payments. Under the asset purchase agreements, our exposure for any indemnification claim brought by King or Eisai is limited to $40.0 million and $30.0 million, respectively. However, in certain matters, our indemnification obligation is not subject to the foregoing limits on liability. For example, we are obligated to indemnify King, without limitation, for all liabilities arising under certain agreements with Catalent Pharma Solutions related to the manufacture of AVINZA. Similarly, we are obligated to indemnify Eisai, without limitation, for all liabilities related to certain claims regarding promotional materials for the ONTAK and Targretin drug products. We cannot predict the liabilities that may arise as a result of these matters. Any claims related to our indemnification obligations to King or Eisai could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. We may also be subject to liability for products we recently sold. For example, in March 2007 we received a letter from counsel to Salk alleging that we owe Salk royalties on prior sales of Targretin as well as a percentage of the amounts received from Eisai. Salk alleges that it is owed at least 25% of the consideration paid by Eisai for the portion of our Oncology Product Line and associated assets attributable to Targretin. In an April 11, 2007 request for mediation, Salk repeated these claims and asserted additional claims that increase the amount of royalty buy-out payments allegedly owed to Salk. A mediation hearing in June 2007 attended by representatives from Ligand and Salk left the matter unresolved. In July 2007, Salk filed a demand for arbitration with the American Arbitration Association seeking at least $22 million for alleged breach of contract based on Salk’s theory that it is entitled to a portion of the money paid by Eisai to Ligand for Targretin related assets. We do not believe that Salk has a valid basis for its claims and intend to vigorously oppose any claim that Salk may bring for payment related to these matters. As previously disclosed, in connection with the AVINZA sale transaction, King assumed our obligation to make payments to Organon based on net sales of AVINZA (the fair value of which was $59.5 million as of December 31, 2007). As Organon did not consent to the legal assignment of the co-promote termination obligation from us to King, we remain liable to Organon in the event King defaults on this obligation. Any successful claim brought against us by Salk or others, or any requirement to pay a material amount to Organon, could adversely affect our business and the price of our securities. 18 Table of Contents If we do not reach the market with our products before our competitors offer products for the same or similar uses, or if we are not effective in marketing our products, our revenues from product sales, if any, will be reduced. We face intense competition in our development activities. Many of our competitors are fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and more established biotechnology companies, which have substantially greater financial, technical, sales and marketing and human resources than we do. These companies might succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for competitive products more rapidly than we can for our products. In addition, competitors might develop technologies and products that are less expensive and perceived to be safer or more effective than those being developed by us, which could impair our product development and render our technology obsolete. We use hazardous materials, which requires us to incur substantial costs to comply with environmental regulations. In connection with our research and development activities, we handle hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. To properly dispose of these hazardous materials in compliance with environmental regulations, we are required to contract with third parties at a substantial cost. Our annual cost of compliance with these regulations is approximately $0.7 million. In addition, we believe that we carry reasonably adequate insurance for toxic tort claims. However, we cannot eliminate the risk or predict the exposure of accidental contamination or injury from the handling and disposing of hazardous materials, whether by us or by our third-party contractors. Any accident in the handling and disposing of hazardous materials may expose us to significant liability. Our shareholder rights plan and charter documents may hinder or prevent change of control transactions. Our shareholder rights plan and provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in our ownership. In addition, our Board of Directors may issue shares of preferred stock without any further action by the stockholders. Such restrictions and issuances may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our ownership. If changes in our ownership are discouraged, delayed or prevented, it would be more difficult for our current Board of Directors to be removed and replaced, even if you or our other stockholders believe that such actions are in the best interests of us and our stockholders. We may lose some or all of the value of some of our short term investments. We engage one or more third parties to manage some of our cash consistent with an investment policy that allows a range of investments and maturities. The investments are intended to maintain safety of principal while providing liquidity adequate to meet projected cash requirements. Risks of principal loss is to be minimized through diversified short and medium term investments of high quality, but the investments are not in every case guaranteed or fully insured. In light of the recent changes in the credit market, one of our short term investments in commercial paper is now in default. We intend to pursue collection efforts, but we might not recoup some or all of our investment in the commercial paper. In addition, from time to time we may suffer other losses on our short term investment portfolio. We may require additional money to run our business and may be required to raise this money on terms which are not favorable or which reduce our stock price. We may need to complete additional equity or debt financings to fund our operations. Our inability to obtain additional financing could adversely affect our business. Financings may not be available at all or on favorable terms. In addition, these financings, if completed, may not meet our capital needs and could result in substantial dilution to our stockholders. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or drug development programs. We may also be required to liquidate our business or file for 19 Table of Contents bankruptcy protection. Alternatively, we may be forced to attempt to continue development by entering into arrangements with collaborative partners or others that require us to relinquish some or all of our rights to technologies or drug candidates that we would not otherwise relinquish. Our drug development programs will require substantial additional future funding which could hurt our operational and financial condition. Our drug development programs require substantial additional capital to successfully complete them, arising from costs to: conduct research, preclinical testing and human studies; establish pilot scale and commercial scale manufacturing processes and facilities; and establish and develop quality control, regulatory, marketing, sales and administrative capabilities to support these programs. Our future operating and capital needs will depend on many factors, including: the pace of scientific progress in our research and development programs and the magnitude of these programs; the scope and results of preclinical testing and human studies; the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; the time and costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; competing technological and market developments; our ability to establish additional collaborations; changes in our existing collaborations; the cost of manufacturing scale-up; and the effectiveness of our commercialization activities. We expect our research and development expenditures over the next three years to continue to be significant. However, we base our outlook regarding the need for funds on many uncertain variables. Such uncertainties include regulatory approvals, the timing of events outside our direct control such as product launches by partners and the success of such product launches, negotiations with potential strategic partners, possible sale of assets or other transactions and other factors. Any of these uncertain events can significantly change our cash requirements. While we expect to fund our research and development activities primarily from cash generated from AVINZA royalties to the extent possible, if we are unable to do so we may need to complete additional equity or debt financings or seek other external means of financing. These financings could depress our stock price. If additional funds are required to support our operations and we are unable to obtain them on terms favorable to us, we may be required to cease or reduce further development or commercialization of our products, to sell some or all of our technology or assets or to merge with another entity. Significant returns of products we sold prior to selling our commercial businesses could harm our operating results. Under our agreements to sell our commercial businesses, we remain financially responsible for returns of our products sold before those businesses were transferred to their respective buyers. Consequently, if returns of those products are higher than expected, we could incur substantial expenses for processing and issuing refunds for those returns which, in turn, could negatively impact our financial results. The amount of returns could be affected by a number of factors including, but not limited to, ongoing product demand, product rotation at distributors and wholesalers, and product stability issues. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 