ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a summary description of some of the many risks we face in our business. You should carefully review these risks in evaluating our business, including the businesses of our subsidiaries. You should also consider the other information described in this report. Risks Related To Us and Our Business. Failure to timely or successfully restructure our business could have adverse consequences for the Company. We completed the sale of our commercial businesses in February 2007. In connection with these sales we are also restructuring our remaining businesses, principally our research and development. We will also be consolidating our staff and facilities. If we are unable to successfully and timely complete this restructuring, our remaining assets could lose value, we may not be able to retain key employees, we may not have sufficient resources to successfully manage those assets or our business, and we may not be able to perform our obligations under various contracts and commitments. Any of these could have substantial negative impacts on our business and our stock price. We are substantially dependent on AVINZA royalties for our revenues. We recently completed the sale of our two commercial product lines, oncology and pain, which in recent years provided substantially all of our continuing revenue. In each sale we received a one-time upfront cash payment. The consideration for the sale of the pain (AVINZA) franchise also included royalties that we will receive in the future from sales of AVINZA by King Pharmaceuticals, Inc., who acquired the AVINZA rights from us. These consist of a 15% royalty on AVINZA sales for the first 20 months, and then royalty payments ranging from 5-15% of AVINZA sales, depending on the level of total annual sales. These royalties represent and will represent substantially all of our ongoing revenue for the foreseeable future. Although we may also receive royalties and milestones from our partners in various past and future collaborations, the amount of revenue from these royalties and milestones is unknown and highly uncertain. Thus, any setback that may occur with respect to AVINZA could significantly impair our operating results and/or reduce the market price for our securities. Setbacks could include problems with shipping, distribution, manufacturing, product safety, marketing, government licenses and approvals, intellectual property rights, competition with existing or new products and physician or patient acceptance of the product, as well as higher than expected total rebates, returns or discounts. AVINZA was licensed from Elan Corporation which is its sole manufacturer. Any problems with Elan’s manufacturing operations or capacity could reduce sales of AVINZA, as could any licensing or other contract disputes with Elan, raw materials suppliers, or others. Similarly, King’s AVINZA sales efforts could be affected by a number of factors and decisions regarding its organization, operations, and activities as well as events both related and unrelated to AVINZA. Historically, AVINZA sales efforts, including our own and our prior co-promotion partners, have encountered a number of difficulties, uncertainties and challenges, including sales force reorganizations and lower than expected sales call and prescription volumes, which have hurt and could continue to hurt AVINZA sales growth. AVINZA could also face stiffer competition from existing or future pain products. The negative impact on the product’s sales growth in turn may cause our royalties, revenues and earnings to be disappointing. AVINZA sales also may be susceptible to higher than expected discounts (especially PBM/GPO rebates and Medicaid rebates, which can be substantial), returns and chargebacks and/or slower than expected market penetration that could reduce sales. Other setbacks that AVINZA could face in the sustained-release opioid market include product safety and abuse issues, regulatory action, intellectual property disputes and the inability to obtain sufficient quotas of morphine from the Drug Enforcement Agency (“DEA”) to support production requirements. In particular, with respect to regulatory action and product safety issues, the FDA previously requested expanded warnings on the AVINZA label to alert doctors and patients to the dangers of using AVINZA with alcohol. 17 Table of Contents Changes were made to the label, however, the FDA also requested clinical studies to investigate the risks associated with taking AVINZA with alcohol. Any additional warnings, studies and any further regulatory action could have significant adverse effects on AVINZA sales. Significant returns of products we sold prior to selling our commercial businesses could harm our operating results. Under our agreements to sell our commercial businesses, we remain financially responsible for returns of our products sold before those businesses were transferred to their respective buyers. Thus if returns of those products are higher than expected, we could incur substantial expenses for processing and issuing refunds for those returns which, in turn, could hurt our operating results. The amount of returns could be affected by a number of factors including ongoing product demand, product rotation at distributors and wholesalers, and product stability issues. Return from any dividend is speculative; you may not receive a return on your securities. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock to date. In general, we intend to retain any earnings to support the expansion of our business. We have announced that our Board of Directors is considering a special dividend of a substantial portion of the net proceeds from our product line asset sales. However, other than this special dividend, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on any of our securities in the foreseeable future. The Board has not determined the amount of any such special dividend, and the amount available for such a dividend depends on a number of factors including our capital surplus, cash on hand and estimated cash needs for our continuing business. In addition, such a special dividend would reduce our assets and could reduce our stock price by a proportional amount. Because the amount of any special dividend and the amount of any associated stock price reduction are both unknown, the investment return from such a dividend is speculative. Thus, any returns you receive from our stock will be highly dependent on increases in the market price for our securities, if any. The price for our common stock has been highly volatile and may decrease. We will have continuing obligations to indemnify the buyers of our commercial businesses, and may be subject to other liabilities as a result of the sale of our commercial product lines. In connection with the sale of our AVINZA product line, we have agreed to indemnify King for a period of 16 months after the closing for a number of specified matters including the breach of our representations, warranties and covenants contained in the asset purchase agreement, and in some cases for a period of 30 months following the closing of the asset sale. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify Eisai, the purchaser of our oncology product line, after the closing of the asset sale, for damages suffered by Eisai arising for any breach of any of the representations, warranties, covenants or obligations we have made in the asset purchase agreement. Our obligation to indemnify Eisai survives the closing in some cases up to 18 or 36 months following the closing, and in other cases, until the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations. In a few instances, our obligation to indemnify Eisai survives in perpetuity. Under our agreement with King, $15 million of the total upfront cash payment was deposited into an escrow account to secure our indemnification obligations to King following the closing. Similarly, our agreement with Eisai required that $20 million of the total upfront cash payment be deposited into an escrow account to secure our indemnification obligations to Eisai after the closing. Our indemnification obligations under the asset purchase agreements could cause us to be liable to King or Eisai under certain circumstances, in excess of the amounts set forth in the escrow accounts. The AVINZA asset purchase agreement also allows King, under certain circumstances, to set off indemnification claims against the royalty payments payable to us. Under the asset purchase agreements, our liability for any indemnification claim brought by King and Eisai is generally limited to $40 million and $30 million, respectively. However, our obligation to provide indemnification on certain matters is not subject to these indemnification limits. For example, we agreed to retain, and provide indemnification without limitation to King for, all liabilities arising under certain agreements with Cardinal Health PTS, LLC related to the manufacture of AVINZA. Similarly, we agreed to retain, and provide indemnification without limitation to Eisai for, all liabilities related to certain claims regarding promotional materials for the ONTAK and Targretin drug products. We cannot predict the liabilities that may arise as a result of these matters. Any liability claims related to these matters or any indemnification claims made by King or Eisai could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. 18 Table of Contents ==================================================================================================================================== We may also be subject to other liabilities related to the products we recently sold. For example, we received a letter in March 2007 from counsel to the Salk Institute for Biological Studies alleging that we owe The Salk Institute royalties on prior sales of Targretin as well as a percentage of the amounts received from Eisai. Salk alleges that they are owed at least 25% of the consideration paid by Eisai for that portion of our oncology product line and associated assets attributable to Targretin. Any successful claim brought against us could cause our stock price to fall and could decrease our cash or otherwise adversely affect our business. Our product development involves a number of uncertainties, and we may never generate sufficient revenues from the sale of products to become profitable. We were founded in 1987. We have incurred significant losses since our inception. At December 31, 2006, our accumulated deficit was approximately $862.8 million. We began generating commercial product revenues in 1999; however, we completed the sale of all of our commercial products in February 2007 and are now focused on our product development pipeline. Most of our products in development will require extensive additional development, including preclinical testing and human studies, as well as regulatory approvals, before we can market them. We cannot predict if or when any of the products we are developing or those being developed with our partners will be approved for marketing. For example, lasofoxifene (Oporia), a partner product being developed by Pfizer received a “non-approvable” decision from the FDA. There are many reasons why we or our collaborative partners may fail in our efforts to develop our other potential products, including the possibility that: Ø preclinical testing or human studies may show that our potential products are ineffective or cause harmful side effects; Ø the products may fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals from the FDA or foreign authorities in a timely manner, or at all; Ø the products, if approved, may not be produced in commercial quantities or at reasonable costs; Ø the products, if approved, may not achieve commercial acceptance; Ø regulatory or governmental authorities may apply restrictions to our products, which could adversely affect their commercial success; or Ø the proprietary rights of other parties may prevent us or our partners from marketing the products. Any product development failures for these or other reasons, whether with our products or our partners’ products, may reduce our expected revenues, profits, and stock price. Our drug development programs will require substantial additional future funding which could hurt our operational and financial condition. Our drug development programs require substantial additional capital to successfully complete them, arising from costs to: Ø conduct research, preclinical testing and human studies; Ø establish pilot scale and commercial scale manufacturing processes and facilities; and Ø establish and develop quality control, regulatory, marketing, sales and administrative capabilities to support these programs. 19 Table of Contents Our future operating and capital needs will depend on many factors, including: Ø the pace of scientific progress in our research and development programs and the magnitude of these programs; Ø the scope and results of preclinical testing and human studies; Ø the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; Ø the time and costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; Ø competing technological and market developments; Ø our ability to establish additional collaborations; Ø changes in our existing collaborations; Ø the cost of manufacturing scale-up; and Ø the effectiveness of our commercialization activities. We currently estimate our research and development expenditures over the next three years to range between $110 million and $135 million. However, we base our outlook regarding the need for funds on many uncertain variables. Such uncertainties include regulatory approvals, the timing of events outside our direct control such as product launches by partners and the success of such product launches, negotiations with potential strategic partners, possible sale of assets or other transactions and other factors. Any of these uncertain events can significantly change our cash requirements. While we expect to fund our research and development activities primarily from cash generated from AVINZA royalties to the extent possible, if we are unable to do so we may need to complete additional equity or debt financings or seek other external means of financing. These financings could depress our stock price. If additional funds are required to support our operations and we are unable to obtain them on terms favorable to us, we may be required to cease or reduce further development or commercialization of our products, to sell some or all of our technology or assets or to merge with another entity. Our product candidates face significant regulatory hurdles prior to marketing which could delay or prevent sales. Before we obtain the approvals necessary to sell any of our potential products, we must show through preclinical studies and human testing that each product is safe and effective. We and our partners have a number of products moving toward or currently in clinical trials, including lasofoxifene for which Pfizer announced receipt of non-approval letters from the FDA, and two products in Phase III trials by one of our partners involving bazedoxifene. Failure to show any product’s safety and effectiveness would delay or prevent regulatory approval of the product and could adversely affect our business. The clinical trials process is complex and uncertain. The results of preclinical studies and initial clinical trials may not necessarily predict the results from later large-scale clinical trials. In addition, clinical trials may not demonstrate a product’s safety and effectiveness to the satisfaction of the regulatory authorities. A number of companies have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials or in seeking regulatory approvals, despite promising results in earlier trials. The FDA may also require additional clinical trials after regulatory approvals are received, which could be expensive and time-consuming, and failure to successfully conduct those trials could jeopardize continued commercialization. The rate at which we complete our clinical trials depends on many factors, including our ability to obtain adequate supplies of the products to be tested and patient enrollment. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the trial. Delays in patient enrollment for our trials may result in increased costs and longer development times. In addition, our collaborative partners have rights to control product development and clinical programs for products developed under the collaborations. As a result, these collaborators may conduct these programs more 20 Table of Contents slowly or in a different manner than we had expected. Even if clinical trials are completed, we or our collaborative partners still may not apply for FDA approval in a timely manner or the FDA still may not grant approval. The restatement of our consolidated financial statements has had a material adverse impact on us, including increased costs and the increased possibility of legal or administrative proceedings. We determined that our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2003, and for the first three quarters of 2004, as described in more detail in our 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K, should be restated. As a result of these events, we have become subject to a number of additional risks and uncertainties, including: • We incurred substantial unanticipated costs for accounting and legal fees in 2005 in connection with the restatement. Although the restatement is complete, we expect to continue to incur unanticipated accounting and legal costs as noted below. • The SEC has instituted a formal investigation of the Company’s restated consolidated financial statements identified above. This investigation will likely divert more of our management’s time and attention and cause us to incur substantial costs. Such investigations can also lead to fines or injunctions or orders with respect to future activities, as well as further substantial costs and diversion of management time and attention. Material weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting could harm stockholder and business confidence on our financial reporting, our ability to obtain financing and other aspects of our business. As disclosed in the Company’s 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K, management’s assessment of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting identified material weaknesses in the Company’s internal controls surrounding (i) the accounting for revenue recognition; (ii) record keeping and documentation; (iii) accounting personnel; (iv) financial statement close procedures; (v) the inability of the Company to maintain an effective independent Internal Audit Department; (vi) the existence of ineffective spreadsheet controls used in connection with the Company’s financial processes, including review, testing, access and integrity controls; (vii) the existence of accounting system access rights granted to certain members of the Company’s accounting and finance department that are incompatible with the current roles and duties of such individuals (i.e., segregation of duties); and (viii) the inability of management to properly maintain the Company’s documentation of the internal control over financial reporting during 2005 or to substantively commence the process to update such documentation and assessment until December 2005. As of December 31, 2006, these material weaknesses have been fully remediated. While no material weaknesses were identified as of December 31, 2006, we cannot assure you that material weaknesses will not be identified in future periods. The existence of one or more material weakness or significant deficiency could result in errors in our consolidated financial statements, and substantial costs and resources may be required to rectify any internal control deficiencies. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls in accordance with applicable standards, we may be unable to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, our business and financial condition could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, or the market price of our stock could decline significantly. In addition, our ability to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business, or obtain additional financing on favorable terms, could be materially and adversely affected, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, our financial condition and the market value of our securities. Also, perceptions of us could also be adversely affected among customers, lenders, investors, securities analysts and others. Any future weaknesses or deficiencies could also hurt our ability to do business with these groups. We may require additional money to run our business and may be required to raise this money on terms which are not favorable or which reduce our stock price. We have incurred losses since our inception and may not generate positive cash flow to fund our operations for one or more years. As a result, we may need to complete additional equity or debt financings to fund our operations. Our inability to obtain additional financing could adversely affect our business. Financings may not be available at all or on favorable terms. In addition, these financings, if completed, still may not meet our capital needs and could 21 Table of Contents result in substantial dilution to our stockholders. For instance, in April 2002 and September 2003 we issued an aggregate of 7.7 million shares of our common stock in private placement offerings. In addition, in November 2002 we issued in a private placement $155.3 million in aggregate principal amount of our 6% convertible subordinated notes due 2007, that converted into approximately 25.1 million shares of our common stock. The conversion of all of the notes was completed in November 2006. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or drug development programs, or our marketing and sales initiatives. We may also be required to liquidate our business or file for bankruptcy protection. Alternatively, we may be forced to attempt to continue development by entering into arrangements with collaborative partners or others that require us to relinquish some or all of our rights to technologies or drug candidates that we would not otherwise relinquish. We rely heavily on collaborative relationships and termination of any of these programs could reduce the financial resources available to us, including research funding and milestone payments. Our strategy for developing and commercializing many of our potential products, including products aimed at larger markets, includes entering into collaborations with corporate partners, licensors, licensees and others. These collaborations provide us with funding and research and development resources for potential products for the treatment or control of metabolic diseases, hematopoiesis, women’s health disorders, inflammation, cardiovascular disease, cancer and skin disease, and osteoporosis. These agreements also give our collaborative partners significant discretion when deciding whether or not to pursue any development program. Our collaborations may not continue or be successful. In addition, our collaborators may develop drugs, either alone or with others, that compete with the types of drugs they currently are developing with us. This would result in less support and increased competition for our programs. If products are approved for marketing under our collaborative programs, any revenues we receive will depend on the manufacturing, marketing and sales efforts of our collaborators, who generally retain commercialization rights under the collaborative agreements. Our current collaborators also generally have the right to terminate their collaborations under specified circumstances. If any of our collaborative partners breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative activities successfully, our product development under these agreements will be delayed or terminated. We may have disputes in the future with our collaborators, including disputes concerning which of us owns the rights to any technology developed. For instance, we were involved in litigation with Pfizer, which we settled in April 1996, concerning our right to milestones and royalties based on the development and commercialization of droloxifene. These and other possible disagreements between us and our collaborators could delay our ability and the ability of our collaborators to achieve milestones or our receipt of other payments. In addition, any disagreements could delay, interrupt or terminate the collaborative research, development and commercialization of certain potential products, or could result in litigation or arbitration. The occurrence of any of these problems could be time-consuming and expensive and could adversely affect our business. Challenges to or failure to secure patents and other proprietary rights may significantly hurt our business. Our success will depend on our ability and the ability of our licensors to obtain and maintain patents and proprietary rights for our potential products and to avoid infringing the proprietary rights of others, both in the United States and in foreign countries. Patents may not be issued from any of these applications currently on file, or, if issued, may not provide sufficient protection. In addition, disputes with licensors under our license agreements may arise which could result in additional financial liability or loss of important technology and potential products and related revenue, if any. Our patent position, like that of many biotech and pharmaceutical companies, is uncertain and involves complex legal and technical questions for which important legal principles are unresolved. We may not develop or obtain rights to products or processes that are patentable. Even if we do obtain patents, they may not adequately protect the technology we own or have licensed. In addition, others may challenge, seek to invalidate, infringe or circumvent any patents we own or license, and rights we receive under those patents may not provide competitive advantages to us. Further, the manufacture, use or sale of our products may infringe the patent rights of others. 22 Table of Contents Several drug companies and research and academic institutions have developed technologies, filed patent applications or received patents for technologies that may be related to our business. Others have filed patent applications and received patents that conflict with patents or patent applications we have licensed for our use, either by claiming the same methods or compounds or by claiming methods or compounds that could dominate those licensed to us. In addition, we may not be aware of all patents or patent applications that may impact our ability to make, use or sell any of our potential products. For example, US patent applications may be kept confidential while pending in the Patent and Trademark Office and patent applications filed in foreign countries are often first published six months or more after filing. Any conflicts resulting from the patent rights of others could significantly reduce the coverage of our patents and limit our ability to obtain meaningful patent protection. While we routinely receive communications or have conversations with the owners of other patents, none of these third parties have directly threatened an action or claim against us. If other companies obtain patents with conflicting claims, we may be required to obtain licenses to those patents or to develop or obtain alternative technology. We may not be able to obtain any such licenses on acceptable terms, or at all. Any failure to obtain such licenses could delay or prevent us from pursuing the development or commercialization of our potential products. We have had and will continue to have discussions with our current and potential collaborators regarding the scope and validity of our patents and other proprietary rights. If a collaborator or other party successfully establishes that our patent rights are invalid, we may not be able to continue our existing collaborations beyond their expiration. Any determination that our patent rights are invalid also could encourage our collaborators to terminate their agreements where contractually permitted. Such a determination could also adversely affect our ability to enter into new collaborations. We may also need to initiate litigation, which could be time-consuming and expensive, to enforce our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of others’ rights. If litigation results, a court may find our patents or those of our licensors invalid or may find that we have infringed on a competitor’s rights. If any of our competitors have filed patent applications in the United States which claim technology we also have invented, the Patent and Trademark Office may require us to participate in expensive interference proceedings to determine who has the right to a patent for the technology. We also rely on unpatented trade secrets and know-how to protect and maintain our competitive position. We require our employees, consultants, collaborators and others to sign confidentiality agreements when they begin their relationship with us. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. In addition, our competitors may independently discover our trade secrets. Our legacy commercial businesses exposes us to product liability risks and we may not have sufficient insurance to cover any claims. We completed the sale of our commercial businesses in February 2007. Nevertheless, products we sold prior to divesting these businesses expose us to potential product liability risks. For example, such products may need to be recalled to address regulatory issues. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could result in payment of significant amounts of money and divert management’s attention from running our business. In addition, some of the compounds we are investigating may be harmful to humans. For example, retinoids as a class are known to contain compounds which can cause birth defects. We may not be able to maintain our insurance on acceptable terms, or our insurance may not provide adequate protection in the case of a product liability claim. To the extent that product liability insurance, if available, does not cover potential claims, we will be required to self-insure the risks associated with such claims. We believe that we carry reasonably adequate insurance for product liability claims. We use hazardous materials which requires us to incur substantial costs to comply with environmental regulations. In connection with our research and development activities, we handle hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. To properly dispose of these hazardous materials in compliance with environmental 23 Table of Contents regulations, we are required to contract with third parties at substantial cost to us. Our annual cost of compliance with these regulations is approximately $0.7 million. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from the handling and disposing of hazardous materials, whether by us or by our third-party contractors. In the event of any accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, which could be significant. We believe that we carry reasonably adequate insurance for toxic tort claims. Our shareholder rights plan and charter documents may hinder or prevent change of control transactions. Our shareholder rights plan and provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in our ownership. In addition, our Board of Directors may issue shares of preferred stock without any further action by you. Such issuances may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our ownership. If changes in our ownership are discouraged, delayed or prevented, it would be more difficult for our current Board of Directors to be removed and replaced, even if you or our other stockholders believe that such actions are in the best interests of us and our stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 