ITEM 1A: Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. Any of the risks discussed below, or elsewhere in this Form 10-K or our other filings with the SEC, could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness. We have a significant amount of indebtedness which could have important consequences. For example, it could: · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations; · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic, industry and competitive conditions; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; 19 Table of Contents · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less leverage; · limit our ability to borrow additional funds; · limit our ability to make investments in technology and infrastructure improvements; and · limit our ability to make significant acquisitions. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to make our interest payments or to repay our debt at maturity, we may have to obtain alternative financing, which may not be available to us. If the patient census of our customers decreases, the revenues generated by our business could decrease. Our operating results are dependent in part upon the amount and types of equipment necessary to service our customers’ needs, which are heavily influenced by the total number of patients our customers are serving at any time (which we refer to as “patient census”). At times of lower patient census, our customers have a decreased need for our services on a supplemental or peak needs basis. Our operating results can vary depending on, for example, a pullback in consumers’ use of non-essential health care services, the timing and severity of the cold and flu season, local, regional or national epidemics, and the impact of national catastrophes, as well as other factors affecting patient census. If we are unable to fund our significant cash needs, we may be unable to expand our business as planned or to service our debt. We require substantial cash to operate our Medical Equipment Outsourcing programs and service our debt. Our outsourcing programs require us to invest a significant amount of cash in medical equipment purchases. To the extent that such expenditures cannot be funded from our operating cash flow, borrowings under our senior secured credit facility or other financing sources, we may not be able to grow as currently planned. We currently expect that over the next 12 months, we will invest approximately $60.0 million in new and pre-owned medical equipment and other capital expenditures. This estimate is subject to numerous assumptions, including revenue growth, the number of AMPP signings, and any significant changes in GPO contracts. In addition, a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to servicing our debt and there are significant restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness under the Second Lien Senior Indenture and the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility. Primarily because of our debt service obligations and debt refinancing charges and elevated depreciation and amortization charges we have incurred subsequent to the 20 Table of Contents Transaction, we have had a history of net losses. If we consistently incur net losses, it could result in our inability to finance our business in the future. We had net income (loss) of $(23.5), $(16.1), $(47.5), and $0.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2008, seven months ended December 31, 2007, five months ended May 31, 2007, and year ended December 31, 2006, respectively. Our ability to use our United States federal income tax net operating loss carryforwards to offset our future taxable income may be limited. If we are limited in our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards in future years in which we have taxable income, we will pay more current taxes than if we were able to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards without limitation, which could harm our results of operations and liquidity. We may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms or at all under our existing credit facilities or otherwise because of the deterioration of the credit and capital markets. Thus, we may be unable to expand our business as planned or to service our debt. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile due to a variety of factors, including significant write-offs in the financial services sector and the current weak economic conditions. As a result, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets has diminished significantly. In particular, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets and the solvency of lending counterparties, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt on similar terms or at all and reduced, or in some cases ceased, to provide funding to borrowers. In addition, lending counterparties under our existing revolving credit facilities may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due. Moreover, without adequate funding, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy, complete future acquisitions, or take advantage of other business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We have risks related to our pension plan, which could impact our financial position. The Company has a defined benefit pension plan covering certain current and former employees. While benefits under the pension plan were frozen in 2002, funding obligations under our pension plan continues to be impacted by the performance of the financial markets. If the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected, the likelihood of our being required to make contributions will increase. The equity markets can be, and recently have been, very volatile, and therefore our estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. 21 Table of Contents If we are unable to change the manner in which health care providers traditionally procure medical equipment, we may not be able to achieve significant revenue growth. We believe that the strongest competition to our outsourcing solutions is the direct purchase or lease of medical equipment, and self-management of that equipment. Many acute care hospitals and alternate site providers view outsourcing primarily as a means of meeting short-term or peak supplemental needs, rather than as a long-term, effective and cost efficient alternative to purchasing or leasing equipment. Many health care providers may continue to purchase or lease a substantial portion of their medical equipment and to manage and maintain it on their own. Our competitors may engage in significant price competition or liquidate significant amounts of surplus equipment, thereby decreasing the demand for outsourcing services and possibly causing us to reduce the rates we charge for our services. Our competition may engage in competitive practices that may undercut our pricing. In addition, a competitor may liquidate significant amounts of surplus equipment, thereby decreasing the demand for outsourcing services and possibly causing us to reduce the rates we may charge for our services. We have relationships with certain key suppliers, and adverse developments concerning these suppliers could delay our ability to procure equipment or increase our cost of purchasing equipment. We purchased medical equipment from over 175 manufacturers in 2008. Our ten largest manufacturers of medical equipment accounted for approximately 66% of our direct medical equipment purchases in 2008. Adverse developments concerning key suppliers or our relationships with them could force us to seek alternative sources for our medical equipment or to purchase such equipment on unfavorable terms. A delay in procuring equipment or an increase in the cost to purchase equipment could limit our ability to provide equipment to our customers on a timely and cost-effective basis. If we are unable to have access to parts or if manufacturers do not provide access to equipment manuals or training, we may not be able to provide certain technical and professional services. A substantial portion of our revenues comes from customers with which we do not have long-term commitments, and cancellations by or disputes with customers could decrease the amount of revenues we generate, thereby reducing our ability to operate and expand our business. For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 63% of our outsourcing revenue was derived from customers or customers affiliated with a GPO with which we have contractual commitments. The source of the remaining 37% of revenue was from customers with no such contractual commitment. Our customers are generally not obligated to outsource our equipment under long-term commitments. In addition, many of our customers do not sign written agreements with us fixing the rights and obligations of the parties regarding matters such as billing, liability, warranty or use. Therefore, we 22 Table of Contents face risks such as fluctuations in usage, inaccurate or false reporting of usage by customers and disputes over liabilities related to equipment use. We do not have written agreements with some of our AMPP customers for which we provide a substantial portion of the medical equipment that they use and provide substantial staffing resources. These arrangements could be terminated by the health care customer without notice or payment of any termination fee. A large number of such terminations may adversely affect our ability to generate revenue growth and sufficient cash flows to support our growth plans. If we are unable to renew our contracts with GPOs or IDNs, we may lose existing customers, thereby reducing the amount of revenues we generate. Our past revenue growth and our strategy for future growth depends, in part, on access to the new customers granted by our major contracts with GPOs and IDNs. In the past, we have been able to renew such contracts when they were up for renewal. If we are unable to renew our current GPO or IDN contracts, we may lose a portion of existing business with the customers who are members of such GPOs and IDNs. Although we do not manufacture any medical equipment, our business entails the risk of claims related to the medical equipment that we outsource and service. We may not have adequate insurance to cover a claim, and it may be more expensive or difficult for us to obtain adequate insurance in the future. We may be liable for claims related to the use of our medical equipment or to our maintenance or repair of a customer’s medical equipment. Any such claims, if made and upheld, could make our business more expensive to operate and therefore less profitable. We may be subject to claims exceeding our insurance coverage or we may not be able to continue to obtain liability insurance at acceptable levels of cost and coverage. If we are found liable for any significant claims that are not covered by insurance, our liquidity and operating results could be materially adversely affected. In addition, litigation relating to a claim could adversely affect our existing and potential customer relationships, create adverse public relations and divert management’s time and resources from the operation of the business. Our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to successfully identify and manage our acquisitions and a failure to do so could impede our future revenue growth, thereby weakening our position in the industry with respect to our competitors. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to pursue acquisitions or other strategic relationships within the health care industry that we believe will enable us to generate revenue growth and enhance our competitive position. Future acquisitions may involve significant cash expenditures that could impede our future revenue growth. In addition, our efforts to execute our acquisition strategy may be affected by our ability to identify suitable candidates and negotiate and close acquisitions. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions. We may not be successful in acquiring other businesses, and the businesses 23 Table of Contents we do acquire in the future may not ultimately produce returns that justify our related investment. Acquisitions may involve numerous risks, including: · difficulties assimilating personnel and integrating distinct business cultures; · diversion of management’s time and resources from existing operations; · potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired companies; and · exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies. If we are unable to continue to grow through acquisitions, our ability to generate revenue growth and enhance our competitive position may be impaired. We depend on our sales professionals and sales specialists and may lose customers when any of our sales professionals or sales specialists leave us. Our revenue growth has been supported by hiring and developing sales professionals and sales specialists and adding, through acquisitions, established sales professionals and sales specialists whose existing customers generally have become our customers. We have experienced and will continue to experience intense competition for these resources. The success of our programs depends on the relationships developed between us and our sales professionals and sales specialists and our customers. Our cash flow fluctuates during the year because operating income as a percentage of revenue fluctuates with our quarterly operating results and we make semi-annual debt service payments. Our results of operations have been and can be expected to be subject to quarterly fluctuations. We may experience increased revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year, depending upon the timing and severity of the cold and flu season and the related increased hospital census and medical equipment usage during that season. Because a significant portion of our expenses are relatively fixed over these periods, our operating income as a percentage of revenue tends to increase during the first and fourth quarter of each year. If the cold and flu season is delayed by as little as one month, or is less severe than in prior periods, our quarterly operating results for a current period can vary significantly from prior periods. Our quarterly results can also fluctuate as a result of such other factors as the timing of acquisitions, new AMPP agreements or new office openings. Changes in reimbursement rates and policies by third-party payors for health care items and services may reduce the rates that providers can pay for our services, thereby requiring us to reduce our rates or putting our ability to collect payments at risk. Our health care provider customers that pay us directly for the services we provide to them rely on reimbursement from third-party payors for a substantial portion of their operating revenue. These third-party payors include both governmental payors such as 24 Table of Contents Medicare and Medicaid and private payors such as insurance companies and managed care organizations. There are widespread efforts to control health care costs in the United States by all of these payor groups. These cost containment initiatives include non-payment for the management and treatment of certain hospital-acquired conditions and reimbursement policies based on fixed rates for a particular patient treatment that are unrelated to the providers’ actual costs and requiring health care providers to provide services on a discounted basis. With most states projecting sizeable budget shortfalls and many seeking federal assistance during the nation’s economic downturn, health care programs like Medicaid will face significant cost containment pressures and may cut services. Reimbursement policies have a direct effect on our customers’ ability to pay us for our services and an indirect effect on our level of charges. Ongoing concerns about rising health care costs may cause more restrictive reimbursement policies to be implemented in the future. Restrictions on the amounts or manner of reimbursements to health care providers may affect the financial strength of our customers and amount our customers are able to pay for our services. In periods when significant health care reform initiatives were under consideration and uncertainty remained as to their likely outcome, our profits decreased as the cost of doing business increased. If other significant health care reform initiatives occur, they may have a similar, negative effect. Because the regulatory and political environment for health care significantly influences the capital equipment procurement decisions of health care providers, our ability to generate profits has historically been adversely affected in periods when significant health care reform initiatives were under consideration and uncertainty remained as to their likely outcome. A portion of our revenues are derived from home care providers and nursing homes, and these health care providers may pose additional credit risks. Our nursing home and home care customers may pose additional credit risks since they are generally less financially sound than hospitals. These customers continue to face cost pressures. We may incur losses in the future due to the credit risks, including potential bankruptcy filings, associated with any of these customers. Prolonged negative changes in domestic and global economic conditions may affect our customers and suppliers, which could harm our results of operations and financial position. Our customers may be negatively impacted by downturns in general economic conditions and tighter capital and credit markets. The current economic downturn and tightening of credit and capital markets could adversely affect our customers’ ability to pay for our services, resulting in decreased orders, slower payment cycles, increased bad debt and customer bankruptcies. The impact of these circumstances on our customers, which is beyond our control, may take several forms including, but not limited to, decreased patient census, decreased number of non-essential patient procedures and services, 25 Table of Contents increased uncompensated care and bad debt, increased difficulty in obtaining financing on favorable terms and tighter capital and operating budgets. Many of our customers depend on investment income to supplement inadequate government reimbursement. The recent disruption in the capital and credit markets has adversely affected the value of many investments, reducing our customers’ ability to access cash reserves to fund their operations. Our suppliers may be negatively impacted by downturns in general economic conditions and tighter capital and credit markets. If our key suppliers experience financial difficulty and are unable to deliver the equipment to us that we require, we could be forced to seek alternative sources for our medical equipment or to purchase such equipment on less favorable terms, or we could be unable to fulfill our requirements if we are unable to find alternative sources. A delay in procuring equipment or an increase in the cost to purchase equipment could limit our ability to provide equipment to customers on a timely and cost-effective basis. If we do not have continued access to parts or if manufacturers do not provide access to equipment manuals or training, we may not be able to provide certain technical and professional services. All of these factors related to a general economic downturn, which are out of our control, could have a negative impact on our financial condition. Consolidation in the health care industry may lead to a reduction in the outsourcing rates we charge, thereby decreasing our revenues. In recent years, many acute care hospitals and alternate site providers have consolidated to create larger health care organizations. We believe this consolidation trend may continue. Any resulting consolidated health care organization may have greater bargaining power over us, which could lead to a reduction in the outsourcing rates that we are able to charge. A reduction in our outsourcing rates may decrease our revenues. Our competitors may bundle products and services offered to customers, some of which we do not offer. If competitors offer their products and services to customers on a combined basis with reduced prices, and we do not offer some of these products or cannot offer them on comparable terms, we may have a competitive disadvantage that will lower the demand for our services. Our customers operate in a highly regulated environment. Regulations affecting them could cause us to incur additional expenses associated with compliance and licensing. We could be assessed fines and face possible exclusion from participation in state and federal health care programs if we violate laws or regulations applicable to our business. The health care industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels. While the majority of these 26 Table of Contents regulations do not directly apply to us, there are some that do, including the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (“FDCA”) and certain state pharmaceutical licensing requirements. Although we believe we are in compliance with the FDCA, if the FDA expands the reporting requirements under the FDCA, we may be required to comply with the expanded requirements and may incur substantial additional expenses in doing so. With respect to state requirements, we are currently licensed in 14 states and may be required to obtain additional licenses, permits and registrations as state requirements change. Our failure to possess such licenses for our existing operations may subject us to certain additional expenses. In addition to the FDCA and state licensing requirements, we are impacted by federal and state laws and regulations aimed at protecting the privacy of individually identifiable health information, among other things, and detecting and preventing fraud, abuse and waste with respect to federal and state health care programs. Many of our customers require us to abide by their policies relating to patient privacy, state and federal anti-kickback acts, and state and federal false claim acts and whistleblower protections. Given that our industry is heavily regulated, we may be subject to additional regulatory requirements. If our operations are found to be in violation of any governmental regulations to which we or our customers are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation. Any penalties, damages, fines or curtailment of our operations would significantly increase our costs of doing business, thereby leading to difficulty generating sufficient income to support our business. Also, if we are found to have violated certain federal or state laws or regulations regarding Medicare, Medicaid or other governmental funding sources, we could be subject to fines and possible exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs. Although we do not manufacture any medical equipment, we own a large fleet of medical equipment, which may be subject to equipment recalls or obsolescence. We are required to incur significant expenditures in order to maintain a large and modern equipment fleet. Our equipment may be subject to recalls that could be expensive to implement. We may be required to incur additional costs to repair or replace the equipment at our own expense or we may choose to purchase incremental new equipment from a supplier not affected by the recall. Additionally, our relationship with our customers may be damaged if we cannot promptly replace the equipment that has been recalled. Our success is dependent, in part, on our ability to respond effectively to changes in technology. Since we maintain a large fleet of equipment, we are subject to the risk of equipment obsolescence. If advancements in technology render a substantial portion of our equipment fleet obsolete, we may experience a decrease in demand for our products which could adversely affect our operating results and cause us to invest in new technology to maintain our market share and operating margins. 27 Table of Contents We may incur increased costs that we cannot pass through to our customers. Our customer agreements may include limitations on our ability to increase prices over the term of the agreement. On the other hand, we rely on subcontractors to provide some of the services and we do not always have fixed pricing agreements with these subcontractors. Therefore, we are at risk of incurring increased costs that we are unable to pass through to our customers. We depend heavily on key management personnel and the departure of one or more of our key executives or a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could harm our business. The expertise and efforts of our senior executives and key members of our local hospital management personnel are critical to the success of our business. The loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or of a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could significantly undermine our management expertise and our ability to provide efficient, quality health care services at our facilities, which could harm our business. Any failure of our management information systems could harm our business and results of operations. We depend on our management information systems to actively manage our medical equipment fleet, control capital spending and provide fleet information, including rental history, condition and availability of our medical equipment. These functions enhance our ability to optimize fleet utilization and redeployment. The inability of our management information systems to operate as we anticipate could damage our reputation with our customers, disrupt our business or result in, among other things, decreased revenues and increased overhead costs. Any such failure could harm our business and results of operations. There are inherent limitations in all internal control systems over financial reporting, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. While we have taken actions designed to address compliance with the internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC implementing these requirements, there are inherent limitations in our ability to control all circumstances. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer, does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all 28 Table of Contents control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in our Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple errors or mistakes. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions, such as growth of the Company or increased transaction volume, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. The interests of our principal equity holder may not be aligned with the interests of our other security holders. IPC beneficially owns securities representing approximately 96% of the voting equity interests of Parent, and therefore indirectly controls our affairs and policies. Circumstances may occur in which the interests of our principal equity holder could be in conflict with the interests of our other security holders. In addition, our principal equity holder may have an interest in pursuing dividends, acquisitions, divestitures, capital expenditures or other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its equity investment, even though these transactions might involve risks to our other security holders. ITEM 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 