ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a summary description of some of the many risks we face in our business. You should carefully review these risks in evaluating our business, including the businesses of our subsidiaries. You should also consider the other information described in this report. Risks Related To Us and Our Business. Our business has recently undergone a significant change, and we may not be successful in integrating the Captisol technology and CyDex’s other development product candidates into our existing operations or in realizing the planned results from our recently expanded product portfolio and pipeline. In January 2011, we completed our merger with CyDex, in which we obtained the Captisol technology, in addition to other product candidates. We will need to overcome significant challenges in order to realize the benefits from this acquisition. These challenges will include the timely, efficient and successful execution of a number of tasks, including the following: • integrating CyDex into our existing operations; • integrating CyDex’s developmental product candidates and successfully managing the development and regulatory processes; and • coordinating with CyDex’s and our collaborative partners concerning the development, manufacturing, regulatory and intellectual property protection strategies for Captisol and new development product candidates. In addition, we rely on our collaborative partners for many aspects of our developmental and commercialization activities, and we are subject to risks related to their financial stability and solvency. We may not succeed in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the acquisition of CyDex. Furthermore, all of CyDex’s products and product candidates, as well as the technology that it outlicenses, are based on Captisol. In addition, CyDex or its partners are attempting to develop some product candidates that may contain significantly higher levels of Captisol than in any currently-approved product and at levels at the FDA has challenged developers to demonstrate acceptable renal safety. If products or product candidates incorporating Captisol technology were to cause any unexpected adverse events, whether in preclinical studies, clinical trials or as commercialized products, whether as a result of Captisol or otherwise, the perception of Captisol safety could be seriously harmed. If this were to occur, we may not be able to market these products unless and until we are able to demonstrate that the adverse event was unrelated to Captisol, which we may not be able to do. Further, whether or not the adverse event was a result of Captisol, we could be required by the FDA to submit to additional regulatory reviews or approvals, including extensive safety testing or clinical testing of products using Captisol, which would be expensive and, even if we were to demonstrate that the adverse event was unrelated to Captisol, would delay our marketing of Captisol-enabled products and receipt of revenue related to those products. Royalties based on sales of AVINZA and PROMACTA represent a substantial portion of our revenues. King is obligated to pay us royalties based on its sales of AVINZA and GSK is obligated to pay us royalties on its sales of PROMACTA. These royalties are expected to be a substantial portion of our ongoing revenues for some time. As a result, any setback that may occur with respect to AVINZA or PROMACTA could significantly impair our operating results and/or reduce the market price of our stock. Setbacks for AVINZA and PROMACTA could include problems with shipping, distribution, manufacturing, product safety, marketing, government regulation, licenses and approvals, intellectual property rights, competition with existing or new products and physician or patient acceptance of the products, as well as higher than expected total rebates, returns or discounts. 15 Table of Contents AVINZA or PROMACTA could also face regulatory action and product safety issues. For example, the FDA previously requested expanded warnings on the AVINZA label to alert doctors and patients to the dangers of using AVINZA with alcohol. Changes were subsequently made to the label. The FDA also requested clinical studies to investigate the risks associated with taking AVINZA with alcohol. Any additional warnings, studies and any further regulatory action could have significant adverse effects on AVINZA sales. On September 10, 2007, King reported that Actavis, a manufacturer of generic pharmaceutical products headquartered in Iceland, had filed with the FDA an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, with a Paragraph IV Certification pertaining to AVINZA, the rights to which were acquired by King from us in February 2007. According to the report, Actavis’s Paragraph IV Certification sets forth allegations that U.S. Patent No. 6,066,339, or the 339 patent, which pertains to AVINZA, and which is listed in the FDA’s Approved Drug Products With Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations, will not be infringed by Actavis’s manufacture, use, or sale of the product for which the ANDA was submitted. The expiration date for this patent is November 2017. King, King Pharmaceuticals Research and Development, Inc., Elan Corporation, plc, or Elan, and Elan Pharma International Ltd. jointly filed suit in federal district court in New Jersey on October 18, 2007 against Actavis, Inc. and Actavis Elizabeth LLC for patent infringement under the 339 patent. The lawsuit seeks a judgment that would, among other things, prevent Actavis from commercializing its proposed morphine product until after expiration of the 339 patent. The Court held a claim construction hearing on March 19, 2010 and issued a ruling. The Court has scheduled trial to begin on March 7, 2011. On July 21, 2009, King, King Pharmaceuticals Research and Development, Inc., Elan and Elan Pharma International Ltd. jointly filed suit in federal district court in New Jersey against Sandoz Inc., or Sandoz, for patent infringement under the 339 patent. According to the complaint, Sandoz filed an ANDA for morphine sulfate extended release capsules and, in connection with the ANDA filing, Sandoz provided written certification to the FDA alleging that the claims of the 339 patent are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use or sale of Sandoz’s proposed morphine product. Similar to the lawsuit against Actavis, this lawsuit seeks a judgment that would, among other things, prevent Sandoz from commercializing its proposed morphine product until after expiration of the 339 patent. The parties are in the midst of fact discovery. A claim construction hearing was held on September 23, 2010 and the Court issued a ruling on October 1, 2010. Trial is currently expected to be set to start during the second half of 2011. An adverse judgement on the patent could significantly impact our future revenues. Our product candidates face significant development and regulatory hurdles prior to marketing which could delay or prevent sales and/or milestone revenue. Before we or our partners obtain the approvals necessary to sell any of our potential products, we must show through preclinical studies and human testing that each product is safe and effective. We and our partners have a number of products moving toward or currently awaiting regulatory action, including bazedoxifene and lasofoxifene. Failure to show any product’s safety and effectiveness could delay or prevent regulatory approval of a product and could adversely affect our business. The clinical trials process is complex and uncertain. For example, the results of preclinical studies and initial clinical trials may not necessarily predict the results from later large-scale clinical trials. In addition, clinical trials may not demonstrate a product’s safety and effectiveness to the satisfaction of the regulatory authorities. Recently, a number of companies have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials or in seeking regulatory approvals, despite promising results in earlier trials. The FDA may also require additional clinical trials after regulatory approvals are received. Such additional trials may be expensive and time-consuming, and failure to successfully conduct those trials could jeopardize continued commercialization of a product. The rates at which we complete our clinical trials depends on many factors, including, but are not limited to, our ability to obtain adequate supplies of the products to be tested and patient enrollment. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the trial. Delays in patient enrollment for our trials may result in increased costs and 16 Table of Contents longer development times. For example, the trial entitled “Eltrombopag To Reduce The Need For Platelet Transfusion In Subjects With Chronic Liver Disease And Thrombocytopenia Undergoing Elective Invasive Procedures (ELEVATE)” was suspended in October 2009 in accordance with an IDMC Recommendation. GSK terminated the ELEVATE study and the program is under review. In addition, our collaborative partners have rights to control product development and clinical programs for products developed under the collaborations. As a result, these collaborative partners may conduct these programs more slowly or in a different manner than expected. Moreover, even if clinical trials are completed, we or our collaborative partners still may not apply for FDA approval in a timely manner or the FDA still may not grant approval. We rely heavily on collaborative relationships, and any disputes or litigation with our collaborative partners or termination or breach of any of the related agreements could reduce the financial resources available to us, including milestone payments and future royalty revenues. Our strategy for developing and commercializing many of our potential products, including products aimed at larger markets, includes entering into collaborations with corporate partners and others. These collaborations have provided us with funding and research and development resources for potential products for the treatment of a variety of diseases. These agreements also give our collaborative partners significant discretion when deciding whether or not to pursue any development program. Our existing collaborations may not continue or be successful, and we may be unable to enter into future collaborative arrangements to develop and commercialize our product candidates. In addition, our collaborators may develop drugs, either alone or with others that compete with the types of drugs they are developing with us. This would result in increased competition for our programs. If products are approved for marketing under our collaborative programs, revenues we receive will depend on the manufacturing, marketing and sales efforts of our collaborative partners, who generally retain commercialization rights under the collaborative agreements. Generally, our current collaborative partners also have the right to terminate their collaborations under specified circumstances. If any of our collaborative partners breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative activities successfully, our product development under these agreements will be delayed or terminated. Disputes or litigation may also arise with our collaborators, including disputes or litigation over ownership rights to intellectual property, know-how or technologies developed with our collaborators. Such disputes or litigation could adversely affect our rights to one or more of our product candidates. Any such dispute or litigation could delay, interrupt or terminate the collaborative research, development and commercialization of certain potential products, create uncertainty as to ownership rights of intellectual property, or could result in litigation or arbitration. The occurrence of any of these problems could be time-consuming and expensive and could adversely affect our business. We obtain Captisol from a sole source supplier, and if this supplier were to cease to be able to supply Captisol to us, or decline to supply Captisol to us, we would be unable to continue to derive revenue or continue to develop our product candidates until we obtained an alternative source, which could take a considerable length of time. We currently have one supplier of Captisol, Hovione FarmaCiencia SA, or Hovione, through its agent Hovione LLC. Hovione is a major supplier of APIs and API intermediates located in Lisbon, Portugal. Hovione has other production sites in Cork, Ireland and Macau, China, but those sites are not yet qualified to make Captisol. If a major disaster were to happen at Hovione or Hovione were to suffer major production problems or were to fail to deliver Captisol to us for any other reason, there could be a significant interruption of our Captisol supply. While we carry a significant inventory of Captisol for this type of occurrence, which should permit us to satisfy our existing supply obligations through 2011 under current and anticipated demand conditions, an unusually large order or two could rapidly deplete that inventory and cause significant problems with our licensees and disrupt our business. In addition, if we fail to supply Captisol under our supply agreements, our customers could obtain the right to have Captisol manufactured by other suppliers, which would significantly harm our business. 17 Table of Contents We rely on contract manufacturers for the manufacture of Captisol and product candidates, and if these contract manufacturers fail to perform as we expect, we will incur delays in our ability to generate revenue and substantial additional expenses in obtaining new contract manufacturers. We do not manufacture products or product candidates, but rather contract with contract manufacturers for the manufacture of products and product candidates. With respect to any specific product or product candidate, we only contract with one contract manufacturer due to the high cost of compliance with good manufacturing practices prior to the contract manufacturer being permitted to manufacture the product or product candidate for use in humans. If a contract manufacturer is unable or unwilling to continue to manufacture for us in the future, we would be required to contract with a new contract manufacturer for the specific product or product candidate. In the case of products, this would cause us to lose revenue during the qualification process, and in the case of product candidates, this could cause a delay in the commercialization of the product candidate. In addition, in either case we would incur substantial additional expenses as a result of the new contract manufacturer becoming qualified. Further, if a contract manufacturer were to experience a delay in producing products or product candidates due to a failure to meet strict FDA manufacturing requirements or otherwise, we would also experience a delay in development and commercialization of the product candidate or, in the case of products, sales of the product. This risk is exacerbated in the case of manufacture of injectables, which require heightened sterility and other conditions as well as specialized facilities for preparation. If we consume cash more quickly than expected, and if we are unable to raise additional capital, we may be forced to curtail operations. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. Clinical and preclinical development of drug candidates is a long, expensive and uncertain process. Also, we may acquire companies, businesses or products and the consummation of such acquisitions may consume additional cash. For example, as part of the consideration for our recent acquisition of Cydex, we distributed approximately $12.0 million of our cash to Cydex stockholders. Security holders of CyDex, Neurogen and Metabasis also received contingent value rights under which we could be required to make unspecified payments under certain circumstances. In April 2010, we earned a $6.5 million milestone payment from Roche as a result of Roche progressing RG7348 into a Phase I clinical trial for the treatment of HCV infection. The milestone payment arises from a 2008 collaboration and license agreement between Roche and Metabasis and approximately 65% was distributed to CVR holders under a contingent value rights agreement and the former landlord of Metabasis. On June 15, 2010, we committed to a plan to close our operations at our Cranbury, New Jersey facility, with an expected completion in the fourth quarter of 2010. In September 2010, we ceased use of this facility. As a result, during the quarter ended September 30, 2010, we recorded lease exit costs of $9.7 million for costs related to the difference between the remaining lease obligations of the abandoned operating leases, which run through August 2016, and management’s estimate of potential future sublease income, discounted to present value. We believe that our capital resources, including our currently available cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments as well as our current and future royalty revenues, will be adequate to fund our operations at their current levels at least for the next twelve months. However, changes may occur that would cause us to consume available capital resources before that time. Examples of relevant potential changes that could impact our capital resources include: • the costs associated with our drug research and development activities, and additional costs we may incur if our development programs are delayed or are more expensive to implement than we currently anticipate; • changes in collaborative relationships, including the funding we receive in connection with those relationships; • the progress of our milestone and royalty producing activities; 18 Table of Contents • our ability to reach a favorable resolution with the IRS with respect to their audit of our fiscal 2007 federal tax return, or to other potential tax assessments; • acquisitions of other businesses or technologies; • the termination of our lease agreements; • the costs of the closure of our operations at our Cranbury, New Jersey facility; • the purchase of additional capital equipment; • cash payments, including CVR payments, or refunds we may be required to make pursuant to certain agreements with third parties; • competing technological and market developments; and • the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights, and the outcome of related litigation. Additional capital may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If additional capital is not available, we may be required to curtail operations significantly, including but not limited to reducing our current headcount, or to obtain funds by entering into arrangements with partners or other third parties that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, products or potential markets that we would not otherwise relinquish. If, as the result of a merger, or otherwise, our collaborative partners were to change their strategy or the focus of their development and commercialization efforts with respect to our alliance products, the success of our alliance products could be adversely affected. Our collaborative partners may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts as the result of a merger. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have historically re-evaluated their priorities from time to time, including following mergers and consolidations which are common in these industries, and two of our collaborative partners have recently entered into merger agreements. In October 2009, Wyeth, a collaborative partner of ours, and Pfizer announced that Pfizer had completed its acquisition of Wyeth in a cash and stock transaction. Furthermore, in November 2009, Schering-Plough Corporation, another of our collaborative partners, and Merck & Co., Inc., or Merck, announced that Merck and Schering-Plough had combined, under the name Merck, in a stock and cash transaction. As a result of the consummation of these mergers, our collaborative partners may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, products and services that are similar to or competitive with our alliance products. Furthermore, the ability of our alliance products to reach their potential could be limited if our collaborative partners reduce or fail to increase spending related to such products as a result of these mergers. On May 3, 2010, we received written notice from Trevena, Inc. that, effective immediately, it was exercising its right to terminate the Research and License Agreement, dated February 5, 2009, as amended, between Trevena and us. Under this agreement, we agreed to screen biological target receptors selected by Trevena against our library of compounds to identify potential active compounds for the development of novel therapeutics. We believe that this agreement was terminated in response to changes in Trevena internal research priorities relating to the subject matter of the research collaboration. On May 13, 2010, Pfizer Inc. announced in a Form 10-Q filed with the SEC that it is in the process of withdrawing its NDAs with the FDA relating to Fablyn (lasofoxifene tartrate). As previously disclosed, Fablyn is a selective estrogen receptor modulator product candidate that resulted from a collaboration between Pfizer and us formed to develop therapies for osteoporosis. Pfizer submitted an NDA to the FDA and a marketing authorization application to the European Medicines Agency for Fablyn for the treatment of osteoporosis in 19 Table of Contents December 2007 and January 2008, respectively, and in February 2009, Pfizer received approval from the European Commission for Fablyn tablets. Under the terms of our agreement with Pfizer, we are entitled to receive royalty payments on worldwide net sales of lasofoxifene for any indication. Pfizer has indicated that it is exploring strategic options for Fablyn, including out-licensing or sale. On September 7, 2010, we received notice from GSK that it was exercising its right to terminate the Product Development and Commercialization Agreement, dated as of March 24, 2006 and as amended, among SmithKlineBeecham Corporation, doing business as GlaxoSmithKline, Glaxo Group Limited and Pharmacopeia, LLC, as successor to Pharmacopeia Drug Discovery, Inc. The termination became effective on October 7, 2010. Absent the termination by GSK, the research term under this agreement would have terminated on March 24, 2011. Following termination, we retained rights to the current programs under this agreement and may continue to develop the programs and commercialize any products resulting from the programs, or we may elect to cease progressing the programs and/or seek other partners for further development and commercialization. In October, 2010, Pfizer announced that it had entered into an agreement to acquire King. Pfizer has commenced a tender offer and Pfizer and King are targeting a first-quarter 2011 closing assuming execution of the tender process and receipt of the appropriate regulatory clearances. There can be no assurance of the impact that this anticipated acquisition will have on our relationship with Pfizer or King, or that the acquisition will occur at all. If our collaborative partners terminate their collaborations with us or do not commit sufficient resources to the development, manufacture, marketing or distribution of our alliance products, we could be required to devote additional resources to our alliance products, seek new collaborative partners or abandon such alliance products, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business. We are currently dependent upon outlicensing business and we may not be successful in entering into additional out-license agreements on favorable terms, which may adversely affect our liquidity or require us to alter development plans on our products. We have entered into several out-licensing agreements for the development and commercialization of our products. We currently depend on our arrangements with our outlicensees to sell products using our Captisol technology. If our outlicensees discontinue sales of products using our Captisol technology, fail to obtain regulatory approval for their products using our Captisol technology, fail to satisfy their obligations under their agreements with us, or if we are unable to establish new licensing and marketing relationships, our financial results and growth prospects would be materially affected. Further, under most of our Captisol outlicenses, the amount of royalties we receive will be reduced or will cease when the relevant patent expires. While we have other more recent patents relating to Captisol with later expiration dates (for example, our high purity patent, U.S. Patent No. 7,635,773 is not expected to expire until 2029 and our morphology patent, U.S. Patent No. 7,629,331 is not expected to expire until 2025), the initially filed patents relating to Captisol expire in 2010 in the U.S. and are expected to expire between 2011 and 2016 outside the U.S., and if our other intellectual property rights are not sufficient to prevent a generic form of Captisol from coming to market, the source of the vast majority of our revenue may cease to exist. Although we expend considerable resources on internal research and development for our proprietary programs, we may not be successful in entering into additional out-licensing agreements under favorable terms due to several factors including: • the difficulty in creating valuable product candidates that target large market opportunities; • research and spending priorities of potential licensing partners; • willingness of and the resources available to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to in-license product candidates for their clinical pipelines; or • differences of opinion with potential partners on the valuation of products we are seeking to out-license. 20 Table of Contents The inability to enter into out-licensing agreements under favorable terms and to earn milestone payments, license fees and/or upfront fees may adversely affect our liquidity and may force us to curtail or delay development of some or all of our proprietary programs, which in turn may harm our business and the value of our stock. Third party intellectual property may prevent us or our partners from developing our potential products and we may owe a portion of any payments we receive from our collaborative partners to one or more third parties. Our success will depend on our ability and the ability of our collaborative partners to avoid infringing the proprietary rights of others, both in the United States and in foreign countries. In addition, disputes with licensors under our license agreements may arise which could result in additional financial liability or loss of important technology and potential products and related revenue, if any. Further, the manufacture, use or sale of our potential products or our collaborative partners’ products or potential products may infringe the patent rights of others. This could impact AVINZA, PROMACTA, VIVIANT and CONBRIZA (bazedoxifene), lasofoxifene, LGD-4665, and any other products or potential products. Several drug companies and research and academic institutions have developed technologies, filed patent applications or received patents for technologies that may be related to our business. Others have filed patent applications and received patents that conflict with patents or patent applications we have licensed for our use, either by claiming the same methods or compounds or by claiming methods or compounds that could dominate those licensed to us. In addition, we may not be aware of all patents or patent applications that may impact our ability to make, use or sell any of our potential products. For example, US patent applications may be kept confidential while pending in the United States Patent and Trademark Office and patent applications filed in foreign countries are often first published six months or more after filing. Disagreements or litigation with our collaborative partners could delay our ability and the ability of our collaborative partners to achieve milestones or our receipt of other payments. In addition, other possible disagreements or litigation could delay, interrupt or terminate the research, development and commercialization of certain potential products being developed by either our collaborative partners or by us. The occurrence of any of the foregoing problems could be time-consuming and expensive and could adversely affect our business. Third parties have not directly threatened an action or claim against us, although we do periodically receive other communications or have other conversations with the owners of other patents or other intellectual property. If others obtain patents with conflicting claims, we may be required to obtain licenses to those patents or to develop or obtain alternative technology. We may not be able to obtain any such licenses on acceptable terms, or at all. Any failure to obtain such licenses could delay or prevent us from pursuing the development or commercialization of our potential products. In general, litigation claims can be expensive and time consuming to bring or defend against and could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot predict or determine the outcome of these matters or reasonably estimate the amount or range of amounts of any fines or penalties that might result from a settlement or an adverse outcome. However, a settlement or an adverse outcome could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. Expirations of, challenges to or failure to secure patents and other proprietary rights may significantly hurt our business. The initially filed patents relating to Captisol expire in 2010 in the U.S. and are expcted to expire between 2011 and 2013 outside the U.S. We have also obtained patent protection in the U.S. through 2025 on Agglomerated form and through 2029 on High Purity form of Captisol. We have obtained patent protection on a number of combinations of APIs and Captisol through three combination patents in the U.S., and we have 21 Table of Contents applied for six additional combination patents in the U.S. relating to the combination of Captisol with specific APIs. Our U.S. combination patent relating to Fosphenytoin expires June 12, 2018 and our U.S. combination patent relating to Amiodarone expires May 4, 2022. Our U.S. combination patent relating to one of our early-stage product candidates expires March 19, 2022. There is no guarantee that these patents will be sufficient to prevent competitors from using Captisol after 2010 and competing against us, or from developing combination patents for products that will prevent us from developing products using those APIs. In addition, most of the agreements in our Captisol outlicensing business, including our agreements with Pfizer relating to Geodon IM, Vfend IV and Cerenia, provide that once the relevant patent expires, the amount of royalties we receive will be reduced or eliminated. Generally, our success will depend on our ability and the ability of our licensors to obtain and maintain patents and proprietary rights for our potential products both in the United States and in foreign countries. Patents may not be issued from any of these applications currently on file, or, if issued, may not provide sufficient protection. Our patent position, like that of many biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, is uncertain and involves complex legal and technical questions for which important legal principles are unresolved. We may not develop or obtain rights to products or processes that are patentable. Even if we do obtain patents, such patents may not adequately protect the technology we own or have licensed. In addition, others may challenge, seek to invalidate, infringe or circumvent any patents we own or license and rights we receive under those patents may not provide competitive advantages to us. Any conflicts resulting from the patent rights of others could significantly reduce the coverage of our patents and limit our ability to obtain meaningful patent protection. We have had and will continue to have discussions with our current and potential collaborative partners regarding the scope and validity of our patents and other proprietary rights. If a collaborative partner or other party successfully establishes that our patent rights are invalid, we may not be able to continue our existing collaborations beyond their expiration. Any determination that our patent rights are invalid also could encourage our collaborative partners to seek early termination of our agreements. Such invalidation could adversely affect our ability to enter into new collaborations. We may also need to initiate litigation, which could be time-consuming and expensive, to enforce our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of others’ rights. If litigation occurs, a court may find our patents or those of our licensors invalid or may find that we have infringed on a competitor’s rights. In addition, if any of our competitors have filed patent applications in the United States which claim technology we also have invented, the United States Patent and Trademark Office may require us to participate in expensive interference proceedings to determine who has the right to a patent for the technology. We also rely on unpatented trade secrets and know-how to protect and maintain our competitive position. We require our employees, consultants, collaborative partners and others to sign confidentiality agreements when they begin their relationship with us. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. In addition, our competitors may independently discover our trade secrets. Our product development involves a number of uncertainties, and we may never generate sufficient collaborative payments and royalties from the development of products to become profitable. We were founded in 1987. We have incurred significant losses since our inception. As of December 31, 2010, our accumulated deficit was $691.9 million. Most of our products in development will require extensive additional development, including preclinical testing and human studies, as well as regulatory approvals, before they can be marketed. We cannot predict if or when any of the products we are developing or those being developed with our partners will be approved for marketing. There are many reasons why we or our collaborative partners may fail in our efforts to develop our potential products, including the possibility that: preclinical testing or human studies may show that our potential 22 Table of Contents products are ineffective or cause harmful side effects; the products may fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals from the FDA or foreign authorities in a timely manner, or at all; the products, if approved, may not be produced in commercial quantities or at reasonable costs; the products, if approved, may not achieve commercial acceptance; regulatory or governmental authorities may apply restrictions to our products, which could adversely affect their commercial success; or the proprietary rights of other parties may prevent us or our partners from marketing the products. Any product development failures for these or other reasons, whether with our products or our partners’ products, may reduce our expected revenues, profits, and stock price. We may not be able to hire and/or retain key employees. If we are unable to hire and/or retain key employees, we may not have sufficient resources to successfully manage our assets or our business, and we may not be able to perform our obligations under various contracts and commitments. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain all of our key management and scientific personnel. If we fail to retain such key employees, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of our mergers. Either of these could have substantial negative impacts on our business and our stock price. If plaintiffs bring product liability lawsuits against us or our partners, we or our partners may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our approved products and product candidates, and we may be subject to other liabilities related to the sale of our prior commercial product lines. We and our partners face an inherent risk of product liability as a result of the clinical testing of our product candidates in clinical trials and face an even greater risk for commercialized products. Although we are not currently a party to product liability litigation, if we are sued, we may be held liable if any product or product candidate we develop causes injury or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in decreased demand for any product candidates or products that we may develop, injury to our reputation, discontinuation of clinical trials, costs to defend litigation, substantial monetary awards to clinical trial participants or patients, loss of revenue and the inability to commercialize any products that we develop. We have product liability insurance that covers our clinical trials up to a $5.0 million annual limit. We intend to expand product liability insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for any products that we may develop. However, this insurance may be prohibitively expensive, or may not fully cover our potential liabilities. Inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or delay the commercialization of our product candidates. If we are sued for any injury caused by our product candidates or any future products, our liability could exceed our total assets. In addition, we agreed to indemnify Eisai and King under certain circumstances pursuant to the asset purchase agreements we entered into with Eisai and King in connection with the sale of our prior commercial product lines. Some of our indemnification obligations still remain and our potential liability in certain circumstances is not limited to specific dollar amounts. We cannot predict the liabilities that may arise as a result of these matters. Any claims related to our indemnification obligations to King or Eisai could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, King assumed our obligation to make payments to Organon based on net sales of AVINZA (the fair value of which was $30.9 million as of December 31, 2010). We remain liable to Organon in the event King defaults on this obligation. Any requirement to pay a material amount to Organon, could adversely affect our business and the price of our securities. The sale of our prior commercial product lines does not relieve us of exposure to product liability risks on products we sold prior to divesting these product lines. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us may not be insured and could result in payment of significant amounts of money and divert management’s attention from running our business. 23 Table of Contents If our partners do not reach the market with our alliance products before our competitors offer products for the same or similar uses, or if our partners are not effective in marketing our alliance products, our revenues from product sales, if any, will be reduced. We face intense competition in our development activities. Our competitors might succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for competitive products more rapidly than our partners can for our products. In addition, competitors might develop technologies and products that are less expensive and perceived to be safer or more effective than those being developed by us or our partners, which could impair our product development and render our technology obsolete. We use hazardous materials, which may expose us to significant liability. In connection with our research and development activities, we handle hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. To properly dispose of these hazardous materials in compliance with environmental regulations, we are required to contract with third parties. We believe that we carry reasonably adequate insurance for toxic tort claims. However, we cannot eliminate the risk or predict the exposure of accidental contamination or injury from the handling and disposing of hazardous materials, whether by us or our third-party contractors. Any accident in the handling and disposing of hazardous materials may expose us to significant liability. Our shareholder rights plan and charter documents may hinder or prevent change of control transactions. Our shareholder rights plan and provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in our ownership. In addition, our Board of Directors may issue shares of preferred stock without any further action by the stockholders. Such restrictions and issuances may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our ownership. If changes in our ownership are discouraged, delayed or prevented, it would be more difficult for our current Board of Directors to be removed and replaced, even if you or our other stockholders believe that such actions are in the best interests of us and our stockholders. We may lose some or all of the value of some of our short-term investments. We engage one or more third parties to manage some of our cash consistent with an investment policy that allows a range of investments and maturities. The investments are intended to maintain safety of principal while providing liquidity adequate to meet projected cash requirements. Risks of principal loss are to be minimized through diversified short and medium term investments of high quality, but the investments are not in every case guaranteed or fully insured. As a result of changes in the credit market, one of our short-term investments in commercial paper was in default. As a result, we were unable to recoup all of our investment in the commercial paper. In addition, from time to time we may suffer other losses on our short-term investment portfolio. We may require additional money to run our business and may be required to raise this money on terms which are not favorable to us or which reduce our stock price. We may need to complete additional equity or debt financings to fund our operations. Our inability to obtain additional financing could adversely affect our business. Financings may not be available at all or on terms favorable to us. In addition, these financings, if completed, may not meet our capital needs and could result in substantial dilution to our stockholders. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or drug development programs. We may also be required to liquidate our business or file for bankruptcy protection. Alternatively, we may be forced to attempt to continue development by entering into arrangements with collaborative partners or others that require us to relinquish some or all of our rights to technologies or drug candidates that we would not otherwise relinquish. 24 Table of Contents Our drug development programs will require substantial additional future funding which could hurt our operational and financial condition. Our drug development programs require substantial additional capital to successfully complete them, arising from costs to: conduct research, preclinical testing and human studies; establish pilot scale and commercial scale manufacturing processes and facilities; and establish and develop quality control, regulatory, marketing, sales and administrative capabilities to support these programs. Our future operating and capital needs will depend on many factors, including: the pace of scientific progress in our research and development programs and the magnitude of these programs; the scope and results of preclinical testing and human studies; the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; the time and costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; competing technological and market developments; our ability to establish additional collaborations; changes in our existing collaborations; the cost of manufacturing scale-up; and the effectiveness of our commercialization activities. We expect our research and development expenditures over the next three years to continue to be significant. However, we base our outlook regarding the need for funds on many uncertain variables. Such uncertainties include regulatory approvals, the timing of events outside our direct control such as product launches by partners and the success of such product launches, negotiations with potential strategic partners, possible sale of assets or other transactions and other factors. Any of these uncertain events can significantly change our cash requirements. While we expect to fund our research and development activities from cash generated from AVINZA, PROMACTA, VIVIANT and CONBRIZA royalties and royalties and milestones from our partners in various past and future collaborations to the extent possible, if we are unable to do so, we may need to complete additional equity or debt financings or seek other external means of financing. These financings could depress our stock price. If additional funds are required to support our operations and we are unable to obtain them on terms favorable to us, we may be required to cease or reduce further development or commercialization of our products, to sell some or all of our technology or assets or to merge with another entity. Significant returns of products we sold prior to selling our prior commercial businesses could harm our operating results. Under our agreements to sell our prior commercial businesses, we remain financially responsible for returns of our products sold before those businesses were transferred to their respective buyers. Consequently, if returns of those products are higher than expected, we could incur substantial expenses for processing and issuing refunds for those returns which, in turn, could negatively impact our financial results. The amount of returns could be affected by a number of factors including, but not limited to, ongoing product demand, product rotation at distributors and wholesalers, and product stability issues. Our results of operations and liquidity needs could be materially negatively affected by market fluctuations and economic downturn. Our results of operations could be materially negatively affected by economic conditions generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. Continuing concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining residential real estate market in the U.S. have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic recession and fears of a possible depression. Domestic and international equity markets continue to experience heightened volatility and turmoil. These events and the continuing market upheavals may have an adverse effect on us. In the event of a continuing market downturn, our results of operations could be adversely affected by those factors in many ways, including making it more difficult for us to raise funds if necessary, and our stock price may further decline. 25 Table of Contents Our investment securities consist primarily of money market funds, corporate debt obligations and U.S. government agency securities. We do not have any auction rate securities. Recently, there has been concern in the credit markets regarding the value of a variety of mortgage-backed securities and the resultant effects on various securities markets. We cannot provide assurance that our investments are not subject to adverse changes in market value. If our investments experience adverse changes in market value, we may have less capital to fund our operations. We may be unable to successfully integrate Metabasis and realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. In January 2010, we completed our merger with Metabasis. The integration of an independent company is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. It is possible that the integration processes could result in the loss of key employees, diversion of management’s attention, the disruption or interruption of, or the loss of momentum in, our ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with licensors, collaborators, partners, suppliers and employees or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of the combined company and, as a result, adversely affect the market price of our common stock. During the integration process for our Metabasis acquisition, we have become aware that the electronic data we received as part of the acquisition is incomplete due to the data retention and backup policies in place at Metabasis prior to the time of the acquisition. The missing electronic data could impact our ability to partner affected compounds and may lead to increased costs and development time for affected programs, which could impact our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition and lead to unanticipated development costs. We expect to incur significant costs and commit significant management time integrating Metabasis’ business operations, technology, development programs, products and personnel with those of ours. If we do not successfully integrate the business of Metabasis, the expenditure of these costs will reduce our cash position. Our stock price has been volatile and could experience a sudden decline in value. Our common stock has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations and may continue to experience volatility in the future. As a result, you may not be able to sell your shares quickly or at the latest market price if trading in our stock is not active or the volume is low. On November 19, 2010, we effected a 1-for-6 reverse stock split. We believe the reverse stock split will have the effect of increasing the per share trading price of our common stock. Many factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including, but not limited to, the following factors: results of or delays in our preclinical studies and clinical trials; the success of our collaboration agreements; publicity regarding actual or potential medical results relating to products under development by us or others; announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or others; developments in patent or other proprietary rights by us or others; comments or opinions by securities analysts or major stockholders; future sales of our common stock by existing stockholders; regulatory developments or changes in regulatory guidance; litigation or threats of litigation; economic and other external factors or other disaster or crises; the departure of any of our officers, directors or key employees; period-to-period fluctuations in financial results; and limited daily trading volume. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA, (formerly the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.) and the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, have adopted certain new rules. If we were unable to continue to comply with the new rules, we could be delisted from trading on the NASDAQ Global Market, or Nasdaq, and thereafter trading in our common stock, if any, would be conducted through the over-the-counter market or on the Electronic Bulletin Board of FINRA. As a consequence of such delisting, an investor would likely find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain quotations as to the price of, our common stock. Delisting of our common stock could also result in lower prices per share of our common stock than would otherwise prevail. 26 Table of Contents Any future material weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting could harm stockholder and business confidence on our financial reporting, our ability to obtain financing and other aspects of our business. While no material weaknesses were identified as of December 31, 2010, we cannot assure you that material weaknesses will not be identified in future periods. The existence of one or more material weakness or significant deficiency could result in errors in our consolidated financial statements. Substantial costs and resources may be required to rectify any internal control deficiencies. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls in accordance with applicable standards, we may be unable to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, our business and financial condition could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, or the market price of our stock could decline significantly. In addition, our ability to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business, or obtain additional financing on favorable terms, could be materially and adversely affected, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, our financial condition and the market value of our securities. Moreover, our reputation with customers, lenders, investors, securities analysts and others may be adversely affected. Impairment charges pertaining to goodwill, identifiable intangible assets or other long-lived assets from our mergers could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and the market value of our common stock. The total purchase price pertaining to our mergers with Pharmacopeia, Neurogen, Metabasis and CyDex have been allocated to net tangible assets, identifiable intangible assets, in process research and development and goodwill. To the extent the value of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets or other long-lived assets become impaired, we will be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment. Any impairment charges could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and the market value of our common stock. We may undertake strategic acquisitions in the future and any difficulties from integrating such acquisitions could adversely affect our stock price, operating results and results of operations. We may acquire companies, businesses and products that complement or augment our existing business. We may not be able to integrate any acquired business successfully or operate any acquired business profitably. Integrating any newly acquired business could be expensive and time-consuming. Integration efforts often take a significant amount of time, place a significant strain on managerial, operational and financial resources and could prove to be more difficult or expensive than we predict. The diversion of our management’s attention and any delay or difficulties encountered in connection with any future acquisitions we may consummate could result in the disruption of our on-going business or inconsistencies in standards and controls that could negatively affect our ability to maintain third-party relationships. Moreover, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing, or issue additional shares, to acquire any businesses or products, which may result in dilution for stockholders or the incurrence of indebtedness. As part of our efforts to acquire companies, business or product candidates or to enter into other significant transactions, we conduct business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating material risks involved in the transaction. Despite our efforts, we ultimately may be unsuccessful in ascertaining or evaluating all such risks and, as a result, might not realize the intended advantages of the transaction. If we fail to realize the expected benefits from acquisitions we may consummate in the future, whether as a result of unidentified risks, integration difficulties, regulatory setbacks and other events, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we acquire product candidates, we will also need to make certain assumptions about, among other things, development costs, the likelihood of receiving regulatory approval and the market for such product candidates. Our assumptions may prove to be incorrect, which could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these transactions. In addition, we will likely experience significant charges to earnings in connection with our efforts, if any, to consummate acquisitions. For transactions that are ultimately not consummated, these charges may include 27 Table of Contents fees and expenses for investment bankers, attorneys, accountants and other advisors in connection with our efforts. Even if our efforts are successful, we may incur, as part of a transaction, substantial charges for closure costs associated with elimination of duplicate operations and facilities and acquired IPR&D charges. In either case, the incurrence of these charges could adversely affect our results of operations for particular quarterly or annual periods. Our CyDex facilities are located in a tornado zone, and the occurrence of a tornado or other catastrophic disaster could damage our facilities and equipment, which could cause us to curtail or cease local operations. Our CyDex facilities are located outside of Kansas City, Kansas, which is in a tornado zone. We are therefore vulnerable to damage from tornados. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, such as power loss, fire, floods and similar events. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business could be seriously impaired. We are insured against up to $2.6 million in damages resulting from natural disasters, including tornados. We currently may not have adequate insurance to cover our losses resulting from disasters or other similar significant business interruptions, and we do not plan to purchase additional insurance to cover such losses due to the cost of obtaining such coverage. Any significant losses that are not recoverable under our insurance policies could seriously impair our business, financial condition and prospects. 28 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 